I~T
I RETUJ1I TO 
l            _-t
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR R]ECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. PA-148A
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
December 22, 1972
Latin America and The Caribbean Projects Department
Agriculture Projects Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Except where otherwise stated all figures are quoted in U.S.
dollars (US$)
US$1 = RD$1
Weights and Measures
1 kilometer (km)          =    0.62 miles
1 millimeter (mm)         -    0.039 inch
1 meter (m)               =    3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)            -    10,000 square meters - 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) _    100 ha - 0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)        -    1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters
(Mfm3)               -    810 acre feet
1 metric ton (ton)        -    2,205 lb
1 kilogram (kg)           -    2.2 lb
1 ton paddy               -    650 kg rice (white)
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
INDRHI - National Institute for Hydraulic Resources - Instituto
Nacional de Recursos Hidraulicos
IAD     -  Dominican Institute for Agrarian Reform - Instituto
Agrario Dominicano
CDE     -  Dominican Corporation for Electric Power - Corporaccion
Dominicana de Electricidad
BNA     -  National Agricultural Bank - Banco Nacional Agricola
FETAB   -  Cooperative Union of Tobacco Producers - Federacion de
Tabacalero
INSPRE  -  National Price Stabilization Institute - Instituto
Nacional de Stabilizacion de Precios
ICO     -  International Coffee Organization
SOGREAH -  Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications
Hydrauliques, France
CIEPS   -  Ingenieros, ConsF.tores y Proyectistas, Mexico
Fiscal Year
Jano4ry 1 - December 31



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
AN APPRAISAL OF THE
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMnARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........................                     i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .........             ..........................           1
II.  BACKGROUND .......................                                          I
II.  THE PROJECT AREA ........................,                                  2
General  ...................................                      2
Topography  ................................                      2
Climate  ...................................                      2
Soils  ........          .............................            3
Land Tenure  ...............................                      3
Irrigation Facilities  .....               ................       4
Agricultural Production and Research                 ......       4
Transportation and Marketing  .....              ..........       4
Enviroinment and health  .....              ...............       5
IV.    THE PROJECT  ........             .............................          5
Description  ......... .-----------------                         5
Project Works  ...........              .................         6
Water Supply, Demand, Quality and Rights  ..                      7
Engineering Design  ........................                      9
Cost Estimates  ..........................                        9
Financing  ...............................                      10
Procurement .......             .........................        10
Disbursements  .............................                    10
Accounts and Audits  ........................                    10
V.    ORGA4IZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .....                 ...............      10
Implementation of Project Works  ....               .......     10
Agricultural Development .....                .............     11
Project Coordination  ....             .............      11
Extension Services  .....             ..............      12
Agricultural Credit .....              .............      12
Land Acquisition and Redistribution  ..                   13
Consulting Services  .....             .............      14
Training  ......         .......................          14
Operation and Maintenance  ....             ........      14
Recovery of Costs  .........................                     15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. A. Otten, M. Fireman, W. A. Lucas  (IDA) and H. Nelson  (Consultant).



-2-
Pa8e No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND
FARM INCOME ..        ........ I ...                  16
ProduCtion       ................     .,........... .  16
Market Prospects . .................  , ,.       17
Prices ......     ...                *.....      17
Farm Income .......   .......................    18
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....................      18
VIII, RECOMM4NDATIONS .....................   . ,    . .... .  19
ANNEXES
1.  Soils
2.   Existing Irrlgation Development
3.  Selection and Formulation of the Project and Project Works
A.  Selection and Formulation
B.  Proposed Project Works
4.  Water Supply, Demnd, Quality and Rights
5,  Coat Estimates
6.  Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
7.   Consultant Services
8.  Operation and Maintenance
9.  Present and Projected Cropping Patterns
10.  Marketing
11.  Farm Budgets
12.  Economic Analysis
Chart Number 7217 - Construction Schedule
Chart NMuber 6892 - Organization
Map



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for irrigation development in the
Yaque del Norte River valley, for which IDA assistance of US$13.0 million is
proposed. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) would provide an addi-
tional US$13.0 million under a parallel financing agreement. The total loan
would be US$26.0 million. The project would increase agricultural production
in the valley by replacing or improving the existing but inadequate irriga-
tion systems, which serve about 15,000 ha, and by bringing 13,500 ha of new
land under irrigation. It would be the Bank Group's first irrigation de-
velopment project in the Dominican Republic and its second operation in the
agricultural sector. In 1971 IDA extended a credit of US$5.0 million for a
livestock development project (Credit 245-DO), which is underway at the
present time and making satisfactory progress.
ii.       During recent years the increase in agricultural production has
barely kept pace with the growth in population. Demand for imported agricul-
tural products has been increasing at a rate of 20% per annum since 1967,
as production had dropped considerably following the 1965/66 disturbances,
and Government is giving strong support to agriculture and irrigation devel-
opment in an effort to diversify and increase domestic food production. It
is also striving to maintain continued growth in the export of agricultural
products, which constitute more than 90% of total exports. Diversification
of food crops, which is greatly aided by irrigation, is also urgently needed
to improve nutritional standards in the country.
iii.      The valley of the Rio Yaque del Norte, in the northwestern part
of the country, is one of the Republic's most important areas for agriculture.
With relatively good soils and an adequate water supply, irrigation has been
practiced in the valley since 1920 but existing systems in the project area
are inadequate and command only about one half of the potentially productive
land. Furthermore, the lack of suitable drainage systems has created saline
conditions in an area of about 8,000 ha which have seriously reduced the
productive capacity of these lands. The proposed project would provide a
modern irrigation and drainage system for 23,000 ha on the right bank of the
river and an improved water supply to 4,500 ha under an existing system on
the left bank. Works would include a diversion and desilting structure,
irrigation and drainage systems, and on-farm development. The project would
also include support for agricultural extension, research and credit and
provide equipment and facilities for operation and maintenance. Concurrently
with implementation of the project, Government would carry out an agrarian
reform program for acquisition and redistribution of land according to a plan
to be submitted to IDA. Under recently approved legislation it is estimated
that between 7,000 to 10,000 ha in the project area would be expropriated
and divided into small holdings whereby about 2,000 to 2,500 presently
landless families would receive land titles.



- ii -
iv.       The estimated project cost is US$39.0 million, with an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$23.0 million, or 59% of the total. IDA anc'
IDB financing would cover all foreign exchange expenditures and US$3.0 mil-
lion of local currency costs on civil works. The balance of local costs
would be financed by Government. The total cost of civil works, on-farm
works and equipment to be put out to international competitive bidding would
be US$26.0 million. Land acquisition and settlement (US$3.2 million), build-
ings (US$0.2 million), consultant services (US$3.1 million) and contingencies
(US$6.5 million) account for the balance of project costs.
v.        The Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidraulicos (INDRHI) would be
responsible for implementing the project and for operation and maintenance.
Due to limitations of staff, INDREI plans to engage a consultant firm to take
responsibility for engineering and supervision of construction but it would
retain authority for final approval of tender documents and construction
contracts and for management of funds. The Ministry of Agriculture would
have primary responsibility for coordinating the extension, research, and
credit activities which would be expanded to meet the project needs.  T1'ls
would be accomplished through a coordinating committee that would include
representatives from Banco Nacional Agricola (BNA), INDRHI, and the Instituto
Agrario Dominicano (IAD). Technical assistance for this phase would be
provided by a consultant firm specializing in agriculture. The Tobacco
Institute, the Rice Growers Association and commercial processing compani.es
in the area would also participate in providing research and extension
assistance.
vi.       At full development in 1985, the net annual value of producLioz,,
primarily from rice, sugarcane and tobacco, is expected to reach RD$ 10.,
million, compared with an expected level of RD$ 2.8 million without the
project. At forecasted world market prices, the economic rate of return on
the project would be 14%. The project would more than double employment
opportunities from a present level of about 4,000 man-years to about 8,500
man-years; most of the additional labor requirements would be met by the
grossly underemployed labor force in the area. Most of the project's
beneficiaries would be smallholders having received land under the land
reform; expected farm incomes would vary widely according to farm size and
cropping pattern, but would, on average, increase threefold when compared
with pre-project conditions. Operation and maintenance costs for the
irrigation network would be fully recovered, while the level of investment
cost recovery would be determined by a water charges study to be carried
out under the project.   Foreign exchange savings and earnings would result
both from the expansion of import substitution crops and the promotion of
export crops, and are expected to increase fro..i RD$ 1.3 million per annum
at the end of the construction period to RD$ 8.5 million per annum at full
development.
vii.      With assurances obtained during negotiations, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.0 million. The borrower would be the
Government of the Dominican Republic.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Dominican Republic has requested IDA assistance
in financing construction of the Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project in the
northwestern part of the country. This would be the second project in the
agricultural sector to receive financial assistance from IDA and the first one
for irrigation development. In 1971, IDA extended a credit of US$5.0 million
for a livestock development project (Credit 245-DO) to assist about 260
ranchers, as the first phase of a long-term program to increase the production
of beef and milk. This project became effective on October 15, 1971. After
a slow start in establishing the organization and administrative procedures
to implement the project, performance has improved and disbursements are
generally in line with the appraisal estimates.
1.02      An initial feasibility study for improvement and extension of
existing irrigation systems in the Rio Yaque del Norte valley, downstream
from the city of Santiago, was undertaken in 1966 by SOGREAH, a French
consultant firm, under a UNDP-assisted project, with IBRD as the executing
agency. The project proposed by SOGREAH, based on run-of-river diversions,
was appraised by the Bank in 1968. However, since Government decided to
proceed with construction of Tavera dam on the Rio Yaque del Norte, the
proposed project had to be reformulated and the basic data re-examined. In
1969 the Government therefore contracted CIEPS, a Mexican consultant firm,
to undertake a feasibility study taking into account the regulation of the
river flow by Tavera dam and reservoir. The CIEPS feasibility report,
completed in 1971, constituted the basis for the proposed project.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited the area in March 1972. The mission included Messrs. A. Otten,
M. Fireman and W. A. Lucas (IDA) and H. Nelson (consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the economy accounting for
25% of GDP, about 60% of total employment and more than 90% of the value of
commodity exports. Of the total land area of 4.8 million ha, somewhat less
than one half is in farms and only about one third of the farm area is
cultivated. Much of the unused land is owned by the state or by absentee
individuals or corporations. Typically, the average farm size is small,
with farms smaller than 5 ha, accounting for about 86% of the total but less
than 20% of the total farmed area.
2.02      Leading agricultural products are sugar, coffee, cocoa and tobacco
representing together about 85% of all exports and cassava, plantain, peas,
peanuts, tropical fruits and livestock products, principally for the domestic
market. With a rapid increase in demand for agricultural products and the
slow growth of domestic production, the imports of agricultural produce,



such as corn, beans, edible oils and processed foods, have increased at the
average rate of 20% per year since 1967.
2.03      Despite a heavy inflow of development aid and technical assistance
after 1965, the record of agricultural production over the 1960's has
generally been poor. The increase of agricultural production has been
hampered by an antiquated land tenure system, small farm size, absentee manage-
ment, poor production and marketing technology, the absence of medium- and
long-term credit facilities and extension services, the inefficient use of
water resources and the uncoordinated activities of numerous poorly managed
and poorly staffed public agencies. With the help of a USAID agricultural
team, many of the obstacles in the way of raising agricultural output and
productivity have been clearly identified. The proposed Yaque del Norte
irrigation project, which would emphasize the implementation of the agrarian
reform program, make better use of existing irrigation facilities and bring
a significant area of new land under irrigation would be an important step
in Government's overall program for accelerating agricultural production.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area is located in the northwestern part of the Dor4-ican
Republic in the valley of the Yaque del Norte River, one of the most important
areas for agricultural production in the country. The entire Yaque del Norte
basin covers 7,300 km2, of which about one-fourth is in the mountainous
catchment area upstream from the city of Santiago and about equally diviuex
between the drainage basins of the Bao and Yaque del Norte rivers, which Join
just above Santiago. The zone of agricultural development in the valley
extends downstream from Santiago for about 110 km to Monte Cristi on the coast.
The total cultivated area is estimated at 80,000 ha, part of which is under
irrigation from 12 main gravity systems and many individual diversion or
pumping systems. (See Map IBRD 10162)
Topography
3.02      Topography relief in the project area varies from moderately hilly
and undulating in the upper part of the valley to uniformly flat in the lower
part. In the upper part both the right and left banks are characterized by
undulating valley lands with slopes of 3% to 5% and numerous natural drainage
channels which separate the irrigable areas into irregular non-contiguous zones.
In the vicinity of Villa Bisono on the right bank, the terrain becomes more
uniform with a transverse slope of 2% to 2.5%. This is the beginning of a
large flat contiguous area that extends westward to well beyond the boundary
of the project area and has no topographic limitations for irrigation.
Climate
3.03      The climate in the project area is tropical and semi-arid and is
suited to a wide range of crops; however, there are minor differences in



- 3 -
climate between the upper and lower parts. At Monte Cristi on the coast,
average minimum and maximum temperatures range from 20°C to 340C and average
annual rainfall is about 700 mm. At Santiago, the upper end of the project
area, the range is 22C to 31C with rainfall averaging 1,000 mm.  Rains
occur mainly from April through June (300 mm) and from September through
November (280 mm). December through March is normally very dry as is July
and August. A detailed study of the hydrological balance between evapotran-
spiration and precipitation indicates an annual deficiency in rainfall for
field crops of about 1,000 mm at Monte Cristi, 1,100 mm at Valverde in the
middle portion of the valley and 640 mm at Santiago. Irrigation would
therefore increase yields, raise cropping intensity and widen the range of
crops that could be grown.
Soils
3.04      Soils in the project area consist of two main groups.  The residual
soils in the upper part of the valley were developed from calcareous marine
sediments. These are deep, medium to coarse in texture, and quite permeable.
Soils in the lower valley are mainly alluvial, deposited by the Rio Yaque
del Norte and its tributaries; these are finer textured, but occasionally
stratified with sand and gravel layers and have sufficient permeability.
Field trials on a variety of crops and soil types show low response to
potassium, a limited response to phosphorous, and a high response to nitrogen
fertilizers, indicating that adequate fertility could be maintained with
irrigated crops.
3.05      A land classification has shown that about 85% of soils in the
project area are suitable for irrigation purposes. This includes some 8,000
hectares in the Laguna Salada area which are saline, salts originating
principally from residual soils of marine deposition. The concentration of
sodium in some soils is such that, by definition, they are saline-alkali but
investigations have shown they had none of the undesirable physical
characteristics associated with alkali. All soils are sufficiently permeable
to be leached in the course of irrigation which would adequately correct
existing conditions. Details are given in Annex 1.
Land Tenure
3.06      The estimated rural population in the project area is 25,000.  Also
within the project boundaries are the city of Santiago and the towns of
Navarrete, Valverde and Esperanza with some 160,000 inhabitants. With 7
persons each, there are about 3,500 families in the rural area; only 900 of
these are owner or tenant farmers while the remaining 2,600 families have
little more than home gardens and depend for their income on seasonal employ-
ment mostly at harvest time. Furthermore, about 60% of all farm families on
cultivated land have holdings of less than 4 ha and occupy about 3% of all
farmed lands; by contrast, holdings exceeding 50 ha and occupying 55% of
all cultivated lands are owned by 6% of the farm families. The predominance
of small farms places a serious limitation on production and forces many
families to live at a bare subsistence level, while at the same time large
holdings are not fully utilized.



-4-
Irrigation Facilities
3.07      Within the project area, existing irrigation systems on the left bank
command an area of about 7,000 ha and those on the right bank about 17,000 ha.
These systems constructed between 1920 and 1940, all suffer from inadequate
control of canal flows and unreliable water distribution. Siltation of the
main canals is a serious problem reducing canal capacities and making constant
maintenance necessary. Drainage systems have not been provided, resulting
in waterlogging and progressive salinization of potentially productive lands.
At present, only about 12,000 ha of the total area commanded can be adequately
irrigated. Details are given in Annex 2.
Agricultural Production and Research
3.08      Sugarcane (2,200 ha), rice (7,400 ha), and plantains (2,300 ha)
together occupy about 80% of the irrigated area. Sugarcane production is
confined to a Government-owned plantation, with relatively high yields,
averaging about 100 tons of cane per ha. Rice is the farmers' main cash
crop, yielding only 1.6 ton of paddy per ha. Plantains are produced
commercially but mostly serve as the principal subsistence crop, with yields
averaging 15,000 stems per ha. Some tomatoes are also produced under contract
with two canning factories in the area. Tobacco is the main dryland crop
and although yields are low (between 0.85 and 1 ton/ha depending upon ;he
varieties cultivated), quality is excellent and, with the introduction of
light tobacco varieties, the area planted has grown rapidly in the last three
years.
3.09      A considerable effort on crop research has been underway over the
past four years. The National Rice Institute, aided by Taiwanese technicians
is working on improved domestic varieties and the Tobacco Institute has
introduced new and better varieties. In addition, a team of UNDP/FAO experts,
in association with the Ministry of Agriculture, has been carrying out research
on a variety of crops such as sorghum, peanuts and beans, and, based on its
results, has initiated a small scale extension program in the project area.
Transportation and Marketing
3.10      Two main highways from Santiago to Monte Cristi serve the project
area. The one on the north side of the river, is gradually being reconstructed
as a four lane expressway and is an important link in the overall network in
the country. The highway on the south or left side of the river is two lane
and paved but in poor condition.  These highways are interconnected within
the project area by two paved roads crossing thc river at Esperanza and
Valverde. A network of secondary roads serves all parts of the project area;
some are paved but most are gravel surfaced or unsurfaced. The project area
is connected to other parts of the country by a new paved highway to Puerto
Plata, the main port on the north coast, and by the principal highway that
connects Santiago to Santo Domingo, the capital city. All highways and
secondary roads in the project area are in need of maintenance or reconstruction
but the overall system is adequate for project needs.



3.11      Marketing of produce is largely in the hands of middlemen as
few cooperatives are functioning in the area and most farmers do not have
their own means of transporting produce from farm to market. As a result,
margins between farmgate prices and factory or market prices are often
considerable especially if farmers contract to middlemen before harvesting.
These excessive margins are reduced only when farmers are able to contract
directly with the processor, such as is the case for tomatoes produced for
canning.
Environment and Health
3.12      The Yaque del Norte catchment area is mainly located in the Cordillera
Central, a mountainous region with steep slopes and narrow valleys. Part of
these lands have been deforested and settled, and, although strict laws pro-
hibit further deforestation and settlement, it continues in remote areas.
This has resulted in increased sediment loads particularly in the Bao River,
an important tributary to the Yaque del Norte. Government is planning, however,
to set up soil conservation programs to prevent further erosion and to reduce
accumulation of soils in storage reservoirs.
3.13      There are no important endemic diseases in the region, and the impact
of increased use of pesticides and phosphorous fertilizer residuals would be
insignificant. It is expected, in fact, that by draining low-lying, waterlogged
areas, health and working conditions would actually be improved as a result of
the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The proposed project would involve construction of a new irrigation
and drainage system to replace the existing systems on the right bank of the
river downstream from Santiago. It would provide a full water supply to
27,500 ha (12,000 ha are presently irrigated), consisting of 4,500 ha under
the left bank systems, which would continue to operate as at present, and of
23,000 ha on the right bank.
4.02      Project works are summarized below and more fully described in
Annex 3.  They would include:
(a) a headworks on the Rio Yaque del Norte at Santiago, consisting
of a diversion weir, intake structure, and desilting works;
(b) a 73-km lined main canal;
(c) a system of lined secondary canals with outlets to 40-ha blocks;
(d) on-farm development within the 40-ha blocks consisting of
tertiary irrigation and drainage canals and land-leveling;
(e) a system of principal and secondary drains, using rehabilitated
natural drains where possible;



- 6 -
(f) a pumping plant to serve about 1,600 ha above the main canal;
(g) 375 km of gravel-surfaced roads along the main and secondary
canals; and
(h)  offices and dwellings for operation and maintenance staff, and
a telephone system.
4.03      The project would also include an agrarian reform program to expro-
priate large holdings and redistribute the land to landless families. Consult-
ants would be engaged for engineering and supervision of surveys, design,
and construction. Technical assistance for extension services, credit,
marketing, formation of cooperatives, operation and maintenance and agrarian
reform would be made available. In-service training for local staff working
with the consultants would also be provided. Operation and maintenance
equipment and vehicles for project personnel are included.
4.04      Surveys and design work for the project would be initiated during
the first half of 1973 with construction expected to start about one yea.
later and be completed by the end of 1978. The agricultural development phase
would begin late in 1974 and extend until the end of 1979, or one year beyond
completion of the civil works and on-farm development. A proposed construction
and development schedule is presented in Chart No. 7217.
Project Works
4.05      Headworks.  The headworks would consist of a reinforced concrve t:
masonry diversion weir across the river, a sluice structure with radial gaz;es,
a desilting works and the intake structure designed for 40 m3/s. The diversio;.
weir would be designed for a discharge of 1,800 m3/s which is estimated as
the maximum 100-year flood. The structure would rest on a massive shale
formation which would be stable and safe. The desilting works and diversion
intake would be constructed on the left bank of the river. This arrangement
would avoid urban development on the right bank and take advantage of a large
loop or bend in the river that would provide the grade necessary to discharge
the collected sediments from the settling basins back into the river.
4.06      Main Canal.  The first 3.5 km of main canal would run along the
left bank. This canal section would also include the intake structure for
the left bank (Bogaert) canal. At 3.5 km, the main canal would cross the
river by means of a large inverted siphon and thence through a 600-m tunnel
in a low range of hills to finally reach the irrigable area. The pumping
plant to supply about 1,600 ha above the main canal, would be located near the
tunnel outlet. From this point the main canal would continue northwesterly,
below the foothills but high enough to command all irrigable lands in this
reach of the valley. The total length would be about 73 km and the canal
would be concrete lined for the entire distance. Its capacity would be
adequate to serve 40,000 ha which would allow for future expansion of the
project. Such expansion would be possible with construction of a dam on the
Rio Bao and an increase in the available water supply (para 4.12).



4.07      Secondary Canal System.  The system would consist of about 35
concrete-lined canals of varying capacities and lengths for a total length of
about 300 km. It would be designed to serve natural topographic subdivisions
and deliver water to outlets for blocks or land groupings of about 40 ha.
4.08      Drainage System.  The system would consist of principal, secondary
and collector drains as required to serve the 40-ha blocks. Principal drains
would be spaced at distances no greater than 500 m while secondary or collector
drains would be provided for each 40-ha block. It is estimated that about
500 km of drains of all types would be required, about half of which would
consist of reconditioned natural drains.
4.09      On-farm Development.  On-farm development within the 40-ha blocks
would consist of tertiary irrigation canals and structures to deliver water
to individual farms, on-farm drainage canals, and land levelling. The amount
of land levelling required would vary from area to area -- some lands have
already been leveled, others need smoothing to obtain a uniform surface while
others will require cut and fill leveling. The treatment provided would be
determined from detailed topographic surveys of each 40-ha block.
4.10      Project Roads.  Gravel-surfaced roads would be constructed along the
main canal and all secondary canals. This would add about 375 km of service
roads in the project area.
4.11      Other Project Facilities.  The project would also provide facilities
to expand and improve the operation and maintenance organization. This would
consist of 10 buildings for zone headquarters which would also accommodate the
increased staff of watermasters, gate-tenders and other maintenance employees.
Further, a 100-km telephone system connecting key operating stations in the
project area would be installed. Building and facilities at the headquarters
maintenance station in Santiago would also be improved.
Water Supply, Demand, Quality and Rights
4.12      Water Supply.  Water for the project would be diverted from the
Rio Yaque del Norte just below Santiago city. The supply at this point is
the unregulated flow of the Rio Bao and the flow of the Rio Yaque del Norte
as regulated by Tavera dam and hydropower plant, presently under construction.
Although two 40-MW units are being installed in the hydroplant, the present
plan is to use only one unit for peaking during a period of three to five
hours each day. This would reduce the flow available for irrigation, since
the discharge during the peaking period would greatly exceed the diversion
demand for irrigation and the excess could not be utilized. The Government
is, however, considering construction of a dam and storage reservoir on the
Rio Bao which would supplement the regulated flow available to Tavera power
plant. This would provide regulation of both rivers and sufficient water
to utilize the total plant capacity (80-MW) for both base load and peaking,
which would, in turn, provide a higher average flow at Santiago for diversion.
4.13      A reservoir operation study was carried out which excluded the
Bao dam while assuming that the one unit (40-MW) at Tavera would be used for
peaking during five hours each day, and deficiencies in the diversion demand



would be supplied by releases from Tavera within the limits of available
storage. Even under these conditions, the study demonstrated that the
annual diversion demand of the project, about 500 million m3, would be
available with minor deficiencies in only one out of 10 years. The study
also demonstrated that, with future regulation of the Rio Bao, it would be
possible to extend the project into a second phase for a total of 40,000 ha
and also increase supplies to existing systems in the lower valley. Assurances
were obtained from Government during negotiations that the operating criteria
for Tavera dam and hydroplant would provide sufficient flow in the Rio Yaque
del Norte, together with the normal flow of the Rio Bao, to meet the diversion
demands for the project at the Santiago intake at all times.
4.14      Water Demand.  Crop water requirements were estimated on the basis
of the proposed cropping pattern for the project. The monthly and annual
water requirements for each crop and for the project are presented in Annex 4.
The diversion demands, taking into account irrigation efficiency on the farm
and conveyance losses in the system, were estimated on the basis of an overall
efficiency of 60%.
4.15      Calculations for crop requirements took into consideration effective
rainfall and climatic conditions in the project area. The results, as shown
in Annex 4, clearly demonstrate the supplemental nature of irrigation in the
area, as the annual requirements for all crops, except rice and sugarcane,
rarely exceeds 4,000 ml/ha for two crops or combinations of double cropping.
It is important, however, to provide for the deficiency in available moisture
at the right time in order to achieve maximum yields or, in some cases, to
save the crops.
4.16      Water Quality.  The quality of the river flow at the diversion
intake is excellent for agricultural purposes. The supply of fresh water
would make it possible, together with an adequate drainage system, to
alleviate the saline conditions that have developed in the lower part of the
area.
4.17      Water Rights.  The basic law controlling the use of water resources,
defined as part of the public domain in the Dominican Republic, is Law No.
5852, "Ley del Dominio de las Aquas Terrestres." Under this law, INDRHI has
authority to grant titles for the use of both surface flows and groundwater
for domestic, industrial and agricultural purposes. A water title for
irrigation use is inherent to the land and not to an individual who owns
or farms the land. Water users are obligated to request a specific amount
of water each year which can be used effectively for the purposes indicated
in the title. The title can be cancelled if the conditions of the law are
not fulfilled.
4.18      Although INDRHI has the necessary authority to establish an orderly
system of water titles for project water users, much work would be required
under the new project to reorder titles in force under the existing systems,
and to grant new titles for non-irrigated land to be brought under the project.
Assurances were obtained from Government that the required adjustments in land
and water titles would be made during Implementation of the project.



9-
Engineering Design
4.19      Designs have been made on the basis of aerial photographs and
photogrammetric maps which would be suitable for planning and layout of the
proposed project. Detailed ground surveys, however, were performed only on
the sites of 4naJor structures and detailed field surveys and final designs
would be required for the entire project. Cadastral and topographic surveys
would also be required for boundary realignments under the agrarian reform
program and for land levelling on individual farms. The design and layout
of the project would conform to rearrangements in land tenure patterns and
include the tertiary irrigation and drainage systems within the 40-ha blocks.
INDRHI would be responsible for obtaining rights-of-way.
Cost Estinates
4.20      Cost estimates for the project are based on the feasibility study
as modified durirng appraisal with unit costs updated to 1972 price levels.
The project cost estimate of US$39.0 million includes provision for civil
works; equipment and facilities for operation and maintenance; land acquisition
and settlement; and consultant services for engineering, construction and
agricultural development. About 22% contingencies have been allowed, consisting
of a 10% physical contingency, and a price contingency of 2% per year on
local currency expenditures and 6% per year on foreign exchange. These
contingencies reflect the relative straightforward nature of project works
and the trend of price increases in the country during recent years. The
estimates are net of import duties for equipment, materials and supplies
since INDRHI is exempt from paying them.
4.21      Project cost estimates are presented in more detail in Annex 5 and
summarized in the table below:
US$ Million-          % Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
Headworks and desilting works         0.7     1.0      1.7         59
Main canal                            3.5     5.4      8.9         61
Irrigation distribution system        3.3     4.8      8.1        59
Drainage system                       1.2     1.8      3.0         60
Pumping plant                         0.1     0.2      0.3         67
On-farm development                   1.4     2.0      3.4         59
Land acquisition and settlement       3.2      -       3.2        -
Equipment                              -      0.6      0.6       100
Buildings                             0.2      -       0.2        -
Consultant services                   0.7     2.4      3.1         77
Subtotal             14.3    18.2    32.5          56
Contingencies
Physical                         1.1     1.7      2.8
Price                            0.6     3.1      3.7        -
Total Project Cost                   16.0    23.0    39.0          59
/1   US$ are equivalent to RD$.



- 10-
Financing
4.22      The proposed IDA credit of US$13.0 million, together with the IDB
loan of US$13.0 million, for a total of US$26.0 million, would finance 67% of
the total project costs of US$39.0. This would cover the foreign exchange
costs of US$23.0 million and US$3.0 million of local currency costs for civil
works. The proceeds of the credit to finance the construction and operation
and maintenance components of the project would be transferred to INDRHI as a
grant under an agreement between INDRHI and the Government; this agreement
will also set out the condition under which INDRHI will construct and operate
the project. Entering into such an agreement would be a condition of effective-
ness of the credit. Government's contribution equivalent to US$13.0 million
would finance the balance of local currency requirements and would be met by
annual budget appropriations to INDRHI, the Ministry of Agriculture and IAD.
An agreement between IDA and IDB would stipulate those parts of the project
or activities which would be financed by the IDA credit or the IDB loan. IDB
would enter into a separate loan agreement with Government to cover financing
provided from this source.
Procurement
4.23      The total cost of civil works, on-farm works and equipment to be
put out to international competitive bidding would be US$26.0 million, ex-
cluding contingencies. Bidding procedures would follow the guidelines for
procurement under IDA credits for that part of the project to be financed
by IDA and IDB guidelines for that part to be financed by IDB. In order to
expedite construction, it is proposed to divide the work into four contracts:
one for the headworks and first section of the main canal (US$2.3 million);
one for the second section of main canal, including distribution and on-
farm works (US$12.7 million); one for the pumping plant and related dis-
tribution and on-farm works (US$1.9 million); and one for third section of
the main canal including distribution and on-farm works (US$8.5 million).
Disbursements
4.24      Disbursements on equipment contracts would be made against the
CIF cost of imported equipment. For consulting services, disbursements would
be made against foreign payments, while for all other project works they
would be made on a percentage basis representing the proportion of the total
cost covered by loan or credit financing. Any savings in the credit account
w,_tld1 be cancelled. The estimated schedule of expenditures on the project and
a quarterly disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 6.
Accounts and Audits
4.25      INDRRI's accounting system is adequate for the present scope of
its activities, which is mainly limited to operation and maintenance. These
accounts, however, are not subject to audit prior to being submitted to the
Ministry of Finance. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
(a) separate project accounts would be kept and maintained by INDRHI;
independent auditors, satisfactory to the Association, would be employed to
audit the project accounts and (c) the audited project and INDRHI accounts,
together with the auditor's report, would be sent to IDA within four months
of the close of each financial year.



- 11 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation of Project Works
5.01      INDRHI, an autonomous organization created in 1965 would have
responsibility for implementing the project works. It operates under the
supervision of the Technical Secretariat in the President's office and is
headed by an Executive Director. It has three main departments -- planning,
operations and administration. The planning department is responsible for
improvement and extension of existing irrigation and water development
projects as well as for implementation of new projects, while operations
department is basically concerned with operating and maintaining projects
in 16 irrigation zones in the country and administering the laws controlling
the use of water resources. INDRHI has about 900 employees, of which more
than 700 are assigned to field project operations and administrative services.
5.02      Due to its limited technical staff, INDRHI would engage a firm
of engineering consultants to be responsible for all surveys, design, super-
vision of construction and certification of completion. Terms of reference
for the engineering consultants are presented in Annex 7. A project office
would be set up in Santiago, with responsibility for design and construction
of project works. The layout and construction of the irrigation and drainage
systems would be coordinated with the land redistribution activities since
the size and arrangement of farms will determine the layout and capacity of
the secondary and tertiary systems. The employment of a consulting firm
acceptable to, and under terms of reference approved by IDA would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Agricultural Development
5.03      Project Coordination.  Implementation of the agricultural develop-
ment program under the project would require close coordination among the
different Government agencies participating in it. To achieve this, a
Central Policy Committee and a Project Coordinating Committee would be
established. The Central Policy Committee would be established in Santo
Domingo and consist of top officials of INDRHI, The Ministry of Agriculture,
BNA, and IAD and would be primarily concerned with policy decisions such as
project budgets and allocation of responsibilities between the agencies
involved. The Project Coordinating Committee in Santiago would consist of
field representatives of the same agencies and, in addition, the senior
local officials of the Tobacco Institute, the Rice Research Institute, and
the Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad. This committee would be in
charge of day-to-day operations and would be headed by a Project Coordinator,
who would be appointed by the office of the President and report directly
to the Central Policy Committee. The proposed organizational structure is
shown in Chart No. 6892. The establishment of a Central Policy Committee
and a Project Coordinating Committee, as well as the appointment of a Project
Coordinator in consultation with the Association, would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness. Assurances were furthermore obtained that IDA would
be consulted before replacement of the Project Coordinator.



- 12 -
5.04      Meetings of the Central Policy Committee would be held at least
twice a year, with the Project Coordinator participating, while the Project
Coordinating Committee would meet at least quarterly, with additional
meetings as needed. Each agenda of the two committees would include (a)
reports on previous period accomplishments; (b) presentation of a program
for implementation in the next period, and (c) discussion of plans for
coordination between respective agencies. A resume of the meeting's minutes
would be prepared and transmitted to IDA as part of the quarterly progress
reports.
5.05      Extension Services.  Since several agencies are presently engaged
in providing extension services in the area, a unified extension service
unit would be established to ensure coordination of activities. The unit,
which would operate under the direction of the Project Coordinator, would be
staffed with agronomists, to be seconded to it from the different agencies
and with extension agents employed by them. Autonomous agencies such as
the Tobacco Institute, and the Rice Grower's Association would be represented
in the coordinating committee (see para 5.03) and participate in the work of
the unit. Although operating under the direction of the Project Coordinator,
the specialists would continue to be paid by and receive technical guidance
from their parent organizations. It is estimated that a minimum of five
agronomists and 10 extension agents would be required to serve the project,
but somewhat more intensive coverage would be provided in the settlement
areas. The work of the unit would be closely coordinated with ongoing
research work, and the existing offices and laboratories established under
the UNDP/FAO Project would serve as unit headquarters. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would present a plan for
establishment of this unit to IDA within one year after signature of the
credit agreement and that the necessary personnel would be assigned to it.
Assurance were also obtained that adequate operating funds would be made
available to the unit each year through a special allocation within the
budget.
5.06      Agricultural Credit.  The Santiago and Valverde branches of the
BNA provide credit to about 10% of the farmers in the project area. About
80% of the loans are short-term, at 8% interest, mainly to rice growers.
BNA's impact is small and its repayment record is poor, with about two-thirds
of the loan portfolio in arrears. Short-term credit is also available from
the supervised credit programs of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Tobacco
Institute. In addition, farm cooperatives and processing industries such
as rice mills and tomato canning plants, provide short-term credit in kind
when producers are under contract. Interest rates for these types of credit
are somewhat higher (between 10% and 12% annually) but repayment is considerably
better; over 70% of production credits extended through the supervised credit
program of the Ministry of Agriculture, for instance, have been repaid on
a regular basis.
5.07      With the project, annual credit requirements are expected to
increase from RD$ 2.5 million to about RD$ 7 million at full development.
Part of this would be met by increased lending from processing industries
and farm cooperatives but the remainder would have to be covered by institu-
tional credit. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government



- 13 -
would allocate sufficient funds to the project to meet the credit needs of
project farmers and that funds so made available would be supervised by the
project's extension service unit.
5.08      Land Acquisition and Redistribution.  The only experience with
land reform in the country has been a land settlement program, initiated in
1962 and carried out by the Instituto Agrario Dominicano (IAD), an autonomous
agency under supervision of the Office of the President. The program
dealt with the redistribution of formerly state-owned lands and has helped
to settle about 10,000 families, each receiving, on the average, slightly
more than 5 ha. The provision of community facilities and on-farm develop-
ment has been minimal under this program, and agricultural extension and
credit to settlers have been insufficient to make any significant impact
on production.
5.09      The Government is presently planning to undertake a land reform
program throughout the country, which would include expropriation of private
holdings and would also be applied to the project area. To this effect,
three laws have been approved since 1970. The first one, law No. 5852,
envisages the expropriation of non-irrigated or undeveloped land, to be
brought under a new irrigation system constructed by Government. It provides
for expropriation of 50% of undeveloped irrigable land, 35% of pasture land
and 25% of land presently used to grow food crops. The value of expropriated
land (without irrigation facilities) may be credited against investment costs
of the irrigation system (para 5.16). Furthermore, under the recently
approved Law No. 290, all lands under rice exceeding 31 ha in a single farm,
may be expropriated. Finally, a new law on "Latifundia" provides for
expropriation of large holdings, defining the upper limits of holdings
according to land class. This law would apply only where Laws No. 5852 and
No. 290 do not take precedence, and would have the effect of limiting
maximum holdings in the project area to 200 ha. Lands in sugarcane, which
in the project area are owned by Government, are exempt from expropriation
laws. It is estimated that under these laws, between 7,000 and 10,000 ha,
or 25% to 35% of all lands in the project area may be expropriated and
redistributed. The basic laws for agrarian reform in the country establish
3.75 ha as the minimum size farm to be allocated to new settlers. This
size is considered adequate to support a family under irrigated conditions.
hiowever, the Constitution of the Dominican Republic expressly provides for
the elimination of minifundia in the country and there apparently is no
restriction to establishing larger farms, taking into account the differences
in soil productivity.
5.10      There is little doubt about the Government's intention to expedite
land reform; the laws enabling acquisition and redistribution of private
lands have been approved by the legislature in a short period and with
little opposition. The main concern at present is the ability of Government
organizations to administer and implement such a program efficiently. Prior
to negotiations Government submitted a preliminary study to determine more
accurately the amount of land that would have to be expropriated in the proj-
ect area and to prepare the outlines of a settlement plan. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that Government would prepare a detailed plan
for land acquisition and settlement of farmers covering such aspects as the



- 14 -
size of holdings, selection of settlers and timing of land acquisition and
settlement, and that it would submit the plan to the Association for its re-
view and approval within 18 months after signing of the Credit Agreement, and
promptly thereafter carry out the plan in accordance with a timetable to be
agreed with IDA and simultaneously with construction of the irrigation and
drainage works so as to correlate the layout with changes in farm
sizes and boundaries.
5.11      Consulting Services.  Consultants for engineering and construction
(para 5.02), witlh whom INDRII is already in negotiation are experienced
mainly in engineering. Consequently, it would be necessary to employ a
second consulting firm to assist the Government with the agricultural devel-
opment phase of the project together with operation and maintenance. Terms
of reference for such consultants are presented in Annex 7. To ensure its
prompt employment and an adequate coordination of its activities with those
of the engineering consultants, the contract would be made with INDRHI,
although the consultants would be responsible to the Project Coordinator.
Three experts would be provided initially by the firm: a senior agriculturalist
specialized in extension services to serve as an advisor to the Project
Coordinator; a land reform specialist; and an irrigation engineer to assist
INDRHI in operation and maintenance activities. The first two, both of which
would serve for five years in the area, would be engaged within six months
after signing the credit agreement, while the latter, who would be needed
over a tlhree-year period, would be engaged within two years of signing the
credit agreement. The employment of such a firm acceptable to and under terms
of reference approved by the Association would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
5.12      Two additional experts, aside from the three mentioned above, would
be needed to assist in the operatior of the supervised credit program and
with agricultural extension and research.  Under ar extension of its present
program in the area, the UNDP has indicated its agreement to provide the
services of one agronomist from July 1974 for a four-year period, while
the International Coffee Organization (ICO), under its crop diversification
program, has also tentatively agreed to provide the services of an extension
specialist to assist in credit and marketing operations for the same length
of time. Both would be engaged exclusively in activities related to the
project and would operate as part of the project's extension service unit
under the Project Coordinator.
5.13      Training.  In-service training would be provided for local staff
by consultants in the fields of engineering surveys and design, construction,
and agricultural developnent as specified in the consultant's terms of
reference (Annex 7). This would cover a wide range of activities required
in the planning, implementation and development of an irrigation project.
The training to be provided on operation and maintenance of the project and
for extension and credit services would have the purpose of creating permanent
organizations to continue these activities beyond the construction and
development phases of the project. It is estimated that over a five-year
period, some 85 people would be trained.
5.14      Operation and IMaintenance.  INDRPII maintains and operates the
existing irrigation systems and is also responsible for allocation of water



- 15 -
and collection of water charges. It would retain these responsibilities
under the project and would establish a liaison with the Corporacion
Dominicana de Electricidad, which is responsible for operation of Tavera dam.
INDPJII's staffing in the project area would be strengthened to cope with the
increased workload. A consultant would be employed to assist with all
operation and maintenance activities, to establish and help in implementing
a water delivery schedule and to prepare an operation and maintenance manual
settin, out the procedures and regulations for management of the project
(para 5.11). With the provision of additional operation and maintenance
equipment, buildings and facilities under the project, INDRHI would be able
to function adequately. Annual operation and maintenance costs of the
irrigation systems are estimated to reach RD$ 450,000 at full development,
or RD$ 17 per irrigated ha. These costs include all personnel requirements,
operation and depreciation of equipment and use of power to supply the pumped
area. Details are given in Annex 8.
Recovery of Costs
5.15      Project investment costs subject to recovery amount to RD$ 34.7
million. This includes the acquisition of undeveloped lands and settlement
(RD$ 3.2 million) but does not cover (a) operation and maintenance equipment
(RD$ 0.6 million), which is included as a depreciation cost in annual
operation and maintenance, and (b) price contingencies (RD$ 3.7 million) as
provisions would be made to increase charges in line with inflation.
Operation and maintenance costs also would be subject to recovery over
the 50-year life of the project.
5.16      Presently, 'no legal basis exists to recover investment costs in
irrigation projects except when the project is linked to the expropriation
of lands: under Dominican Law No. 5852 the value of expropriated land is
considered to be the beneficiaries' contribution to investment cost
recovery (para 5.09). This would, however, enable recovery of only a
fraction of investment costs, as the latter would far exceed the value of
expropriated lands.
5.17      Water charges to recover operation and maintenance costs are
collected by INDRHI in all its irrigation districts. The rates are set by
law at RD$ 2.50 per ha for the first 10 ha of irrigated land and at RD$ 5.50
for each additional ha. For rice cultivation, these rates are doubled.
IiNDRHI is not allowed to modify these rates to keep them in line with
variations in annual operation and maintenance costs and, at present, they
are too low to permit adequate maintenance of the irrigation system, even
after accounting for the Government subsidy that INDRHI receives for its
operation and maintenance activities.
5.18      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would
approve legislation, as a condition of effectiveness, which would permit
INDRHI to impose and collect annually the full amount of operation and main-
tenance costs on the project and a reasonable proportion of investment costs,
taking into account the recovery of costs through land expropriations. As-
surances were also obtained that, during the first two years of the project,
Government would undertake a study in the project area to (a) determine the



- 16 -
level of water charges required for full recovery of operation and maintenance
costs; (b) determine the proportion of investment costs that could reasonably
be recovered from the farmers taking into account different farm sizes,
cropping possibilities, taxes, farm income, water consumption and the need to
maintain farmers' incentives; and (c) to prepare rate schedules, regulations
for allocation and delivery of water and administrative procedures for the
collection of project charges. Furthermore, assurances were obtained that
the findings of the study would be reveiwed with the Association and that the
agreed level of water charges would be imposed and collected in the project
area.
5.19      It is expected that operation and maintenance charges of RD$ 17
per irrigated ha per annum would be fully recovered. The level of capital
recovery would be determined by the study; however, in view of the large
number of smallholders in the area with low income levels (para 6.06), the
overall recovery level would probably be low.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES Aa1D FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      Implementation of the project would more than double the cropped
area under irrigation and lead to a more intensive cropping pattern and
higher yields.  At full development in 1985, agricultural production would
be concentrated mostly on crops already being produced in the area such as
tobacco, rice and sugarcane, but would also have expanded into new crops, as
illustrated below:
Cropped Area               Production
Present    Future   Present  Future  Increment
-------(ha)------   -------('000 ton)---------
Tobacco                          2,100       9,300     2.0      11.8        9.8
Paddy                            7,400      10,400    12.4      36.4       24.0
Sugarcane                        2,200       2,200   220.0    264.0        44.0
Plantains                        2,300       2,300    34.5      50.0       15.5
Peanuts                            -         1,500      -        2.7        2.7
Soybeans                           -         2,200      -        3.4        3.4
Red and Black beans                200       2,500     0.2       3.6        3.4
Others                             800       5,000      -         -          -
15,000     35,900
6.02      Some improvements in yields as well as a shift to increased tobacco
growing could be expected even without the project, but these changes would
be more than compensated by the decline in sugarcane yields due to progressive
salinization. The main benefit of the project for the sugarcane plantation
would be the reduction of salinity in its soils. Expected yield levels in
ton/ha for the main crops are as follows: 1/ rice, 3.5 (1.7); olor tobacco,
*    Figures in parenthesis represent current yields.  As shown in Annex 9,
future yield levels on the left bank would be somewhat lower as no
on-farm works are planned in this area.



- 17 -
1.2 (0.85); criollo tobacco, 1.4 (1.0); sugarcane, 120 (100); plantains,
25 (15); red and black beans, 1.5 (0.9); tomatoes, 30 (20) and soybeans,
1.6. These yield levels would be reached gradually over an eight-year period
following the start of irrigation. Details of yields, production, production
costs and net returns are presented in Annex 9.
Market Prospects
6.03      Crops included in the cropping pattern were selected after a
detailed review of market opportunities. Crops for the export market,
mainly tobacco, but also sugar and certain vegetables, would constitute
more than 50% of the project's total value of production. For each of
these crops, export markets are already well established. Export possibili-
ties of tobacco are presently limited only by the country's ability to
supply them, as the traditional varieties are strongly in demand mostly as
filler material for cigars in the U.S. and Western Europe. New market
possibilities have also been created by the introduction of Virginia and
Cuban varieties, which have a low nicotine content and command prices that
are about 60% higher than those for the traditional varieties. Tobacco
exports have increased from RD$ 6.6 million to RD$ 20.7 million in the 1965-71
period. Sugar is the country's main export commodity and over 90% of the
total exported goes to the U.S. preferential market, although it has not
been enough to fill its U.S. quota. As incremental sugar production from
the project would not exceed 1% of the country's total sugar output, no
marketing difficulties are foreseen.
6.04      Other crops, such as rice, plantains, groundnuts, soybeans, corn
and sorghum would be produced mainly for the local market, and no market
constraints are anticipated. Rice and plantains are already being grown
in the area and increased production has been estimated to be in line with
the projected population growth rate of 2.5% per year and an overall increase
in food consumption of about 4% per year. Vegetable oil crops would substi-
tute for imports, which have increased threefold as a result of a rapidly
rising demand over the last decade, while similar increases have been
experienced with processed feeds such as soybean meal. Additional market
information is given in Annex 10.
Prices
6.04      Expected farm-gate prices at full development, used in the
financial analysis to value crop production, are presented in Annex 9.
These prices reflect average farm-gate prices over the last two years, as
no single crop would be produced in quantities sufficient to affect domestic
supply and demand conditions. Farm-gate prices used in the economic analysis
were derived from expected 1980-S5 world market prices as forecast by the
Bank's Economic Department. These prices are lower than those used in the
financial analysis in the case of rice, groundnuts and soybeans for which
the Government maintains floor prices through import levies, and in the
case of sugar, where free-market rather than quota-market prices were
assumed. The differences range from 5% to 35% for individual crops.



- 18 -
Farm Income
6.06      Following the acquisition and redistribution of lands in the
project area, it is expected that about 80% of all farms would range in size
between 3.7 ha and 10 ha, and cover about 50% of the area while the
remainder would be in larger holdings, mainly in the 20 to 50 ha range.
At the same time, the total number of farms would increase from 900 to about
3,000. Farm incomes at full development have been presented after deducting
irrigation operation and maintenance costs but before making any allowance
for recovery of investment costs. They would vary widely, depending on
farm size, soil productivity and future crop rotations as presented in
Annex 11 and summarized below:
Farm                           Farm Incomes
Size            Without Project                With Project
(ha)            ------------------RD$--------------------
3.75                400 - 2,000               1,200 - 2,300
7.50                700 - 2,900               1,800 - 4,600
10                1,000 - 3,800               2,000 - 6,100
20                1,800 - 4,600               3,500 - 9,500
50                2,000 - 6,000               6,500 -15,000
6.07      As indicated above, farm incomes would vary from RD$ 1,200 per
annum on smallholdings to RD$ 15,000 per annum on large farms; with an
average of seven persons per family, per capita incomes would correspondingly
range from RD$ 170 to RD$ 2,140 per annum at full development which compares
favorably with an average per capita income of about RD$ 90 at present.
Taking into account the expected average rural income per capita in 1985
(RD$ 250) and the projected national per capita income (RD$ 500), there seems
to be substantial room for investment cost recovery on the larger farms but
only limited possibilities on smallholdings. The magnitude and level of
project charges would be investigated and determined by the proposed water
charge study (para 5.18 and 5.19).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would rehabilitate and expand an existing irrigation
scheme for the production of export crops, mainly tobacco but also sugarcane,
and, to a minor extent vegetables, and for import substitution of rice,
peanuts, and soybeans in an area which is well suited for these crops.
Through implementation of the agrarian reform the project would also create
some 2,000 new smallholder farms in the area, thereby establishing new
employment opportunities and improving the distribution of income among
the population.
7.02      The economic rate of return on the project would be 14%, assuming
a 50-year project life and taking into consideration expected world market
prices for the crops produced. A sensitivity analysis was undertaken to
examine the effect of the following adverse conditions: 20% reduction in
the area planted to tobacco; extension of the development period by five



- 19 -
years; a 10% overall !.ncrease in construction costs; and a 10% reduction
in yields on all crops. in addition, hired labor was costed at the legal
minimum wage rate (para 7.03). Tn each case the rate of return would still
exceed 10%o Details of the economic analysis are presented in Annex 12.
7.03      With about 3,500 families in the area engaged in agriculture, either
as owners or farm laborers, the available labor force is about 9,000 man-years.
Annual labor requirements in the area are presently around 4,000 man-years
and are expected to reach about 8,500 man-years as full development, after
taking into account that the larger farms would progressively mechanize their
operations as cropping intensity increases. Most of the increase in labor
demand is expected to be met by the existing labor force in the area as more
members of the family would be employed during peak periods for such work
as rice transplanting and harvesting and tobacco harvesting. The project
would thus utilize more fully the available labor force, which has no
alternative employment opportunities. In carrying out the economic analysis,
all family labor contribution was therefore not costed, while hired labor
was costed at a subsistence rate equivalent to 75% of the legal minimum wage
rate of RD$ 2.0 per ctay.
7.04      Full agricultural production is assumed to be reached over an eight-
year period after the start of irrigation. Net incremental foreign exchange
earnings at the end of the construction period would amount to RD$ 1.3
million per year and reach RD$ 8.5 million per year at full development, as
project produce would increase exports and replace present imports, thus
assisting the country's balance of payment position.
VIIIe  RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) the operating criteria for Tavera dam and hydroplant would
provide sufficient flow in the Rio Yaque del Norte, together
with the normal flow of the Rio Bao, to meet project diversion
demands at the Santiago intake at all times (para 4.13);
(b) the required adjustments in land and water titles would be
made during implementation of the project (para 4.18);
(c) separate project accounts would be kept and maintained by
INDRHI; independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, would be
employed by INDRHI to audit the project accounts; and the
audited project and INDRHI accounts, together with the
auditor's reports would be sent to IDA within four months
of the close of each financial year (para 4.25);
(d) IDA would be consulted before replacement of the Project
Coordinator (para 5.03);



- 20 -
(e) a plan for the extension service unit would be presented
to IDA within one year after signature of the credit
agreement (para 5.05);
(f) all necessary personnel would be assigned to the extension
unit and operating funds would be made available each year
to the unit through a special allocation within the budget
(para 5.05);
(g) sufficient funds would be allocated to the supervised credit
program of the Ministry of Agriculture to meet the needs
of the project farmers and these funds would be supervised
by the extension service unit (para 5.07);
(h) a detailed plan for land acquisition and settlement of
farmers would be prepared and submitted to IDA within 18
months after signature of the credit agreement for its
review and approval and that this plan would be carried
out simultaneously with the layout and construction of
civil works in order to correlate the changes in farm
size and boundaries (para 5.10);
(i) a study would be undertaken to determine the level of water
charges for recovery of operation and maintenance and invest-
ment costs and to prepare rate schedules, regulations for
allocation and delivery of water and administrative procedures
for the collection of such charges (para 5.18); and
(j) the findings of the water charges study would be reviewed with
IDA and the agreed level of water charges would be imposed
and collected in the project area (para 5.18).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) the execution of an agreement satisfactory to IDA between the
Government and INDRHI for a transfer of the proceeds of the
credit to INDRHI to finance the construction and operation and
maintenance components of the project (paragraph 4.22).
(b) the employment of a consulting firm, acceptable to and
under terms of reference approved by IDA, to assist with
engineering and supervision of construction (para 5.02);
(c) the establishment of a Central Policy Committee and a
Project Coordinating Committee and appointment, in con-
sultation with IDA, of a Project Coordinator (para 5.03);
(d) the employment of a consulting firm, acceptable to and under
terms of reference approved by IDA, to assist with the
agricultural development phase of the project including
operation and maintenance (para 5.11); and
(e) the approval of suitable legislation which would permit
INDRHI to impose and collect annually the full amount of



- 21 -
operation and maintenance costs on the project and a
reasonable proportion of investment costs (para 5.18).
8.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.0 million.
December 12, 1972






ANNEX 1
Page 1
Dno19NICAN PEPUELJ.C
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils
Soil Survey and Land Classification
1.        A somi-detailed soil  utrvey, on a scale of 1:20,000, covering
26,COO ha was carried out by a SOGREAH, a French Consultant firm, in 1966-68.
This survey covers the entire project area ezcept for those lands between the
Navarrete canal, including the Jlicome extension, and the proposed main canal.
It was carried out according to USBR standards and is adequate for irrigation
plannirng purposes. The lands surveyed were classified according to irriga-
bility as follows:
Percent of
Class       Irrigability           Area (ha)       Total Area
1         Excellent              4,325              16
2         Good                   7,835              30
3         Fair                   7,135              27
4         Poor                   3,110              12
5         Limited potential
with improvement         160               1
6         Non-irrigable          3,755              14
Total        26,320              100
2.        Most of the upper part of the project area occupies an area of coarse-
textured soils derived from calcareous sediments deposited under marine con-
ditions. These residual soils are generally underlain by finer-textured
material. The remainder of the project area, the lower part, consists of
alluvium following the course of the Yaque del Norte river and its tributaries,
and both alluvial and colluvial fans that spread out from tertiary hills
bordering the basin. In general the soils of the basin are deep and of medium
to coarse texture. Alluvial soils have loam or clay loam at the surface,
grading into coraser-texture material with depth. They are occasionally
stratified by layers of fine gravel or coarse sand.
Soil Conditions Related to Irrigation
3.        The SOGREAH survey and classification indicates that roughly 75%
of the irrigable area, Classes 1, 2, and 3, would be suitable for agricultural
production. The constraint on Class 4 lands is due mainly to excess salinity
and this would be corrected with drainage and an irrigation supply of fresh
water. The Class 5 and 6 lands are topographically unsuitable for development
and these include primarily the plateau area north and east of Esperanza,



ANNEX 1
Page 2
together with the rough hilly areas under the lateral Penuela and some sections
of the Navarrete canal in the vicinity of Villa Bisono. During preparation of
a final plan for the project, the feasibility of developing these areas under
the Penuela and Navarrete canals would be reviewed with the possibility of
excluding them in favor of more suitable lands in the lower part of the
project area. Due to existing rights, it would be necessary to deliver water
by means of existing systems but their reconstruction and on-farm development
would not be justified. An equal area of better land could be developed at
much lower cost by extending the proposed project on down the valley from
Jaibon. This extension would make it possible to maintain the net area of the
project at 27,500 ha, with mainly Class 1, 2, and 3 lands.
4.        Approximately 8,000 ha in the lower project area are saline, the
salts being derived partly from saline parent materials but also from the
applied irrigation water under conditions of inadequate drainage and/or blocked
natural drains. By definition, some of the soils are saline-alkali and, there-
fore, theoretically difficult to drain. However, none of the soils classified
as saline-alkali have the undersirable physical characteristics associated
with an alkali problem. Accordingly, amendments would not be required for
reclamation, and moderate leaching would correct the deleterious soil
conditions.
5.        Prior to inception of irrigation, natural drainage apparently Was
adequate except in the flatter areas adjacent to the river. However, blockage
of natural drains by using them as canals and excessive application of water
has resulted in much of the area being waterlogged, and, as a consequence,
salinity is on the increase. The proposed drainage system would provide a
network of deep main drains spaced about 500 m apart and shalllower secondary
drains to serve each block of 40 ha. Soils of coarse texture and/or moderate
slope probably would not require farm drains. The saline soils generally
are fine textures and occur in the flatter portions of the project; most of
these would require farm drainage to carry off the saline leachate during
reclamation and for control of the groundwater level.
6.        Experiments in the area show little or no crop response to
potassium fertilizer; a limited response to phosphorus by some crops on some
soils; and a significant response by all crops to nitrogen.  The soil reaction
is very alkaline (pH+) but no evidence of leaf chlorosis was observed in the
field regardless of the high lime content of the soil. Organic matter is
rather high (to 52) in residual soils.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Existing Irrigaticn Development
1.        Irrigation has been practiced in the valley below Santiago for
many years, beginning with construction of the Bogaert system on the left
bank in 1925. The main Navarrete system was constructed in 1944 and the
Caneo main canal in 1960. The Navarrete main canal is the source of
supply to the Esperanza, Penuela, and Jicome laterals. In total, these
systems command about 24,000 ha but it has never been possible to effectively
irrigate more than about 15,000 ha; today, these systems, on average,
irrigate about 12,000 ha.
2.        While construction of the main canals represented a considerable
undertaking, the projects were never really completed and have some serious
defects. In the first place the diversion dams on the river are loose rock
structures, which are normally washed out and there is no control on the
flow diverted into the canals. The diversion is therefore entirely
dependent on the river flow with the result that low flow limits the amount
diverted into the canals which usually occurs during a period of maximum
irrigation demand. In most years the lands under the lowest part of the
system do not receive any water. Another serious defect is the lack of a
desilting works at any of the diversions. This permits silt, sand and heavy
gravel to enter the intakes and be deposited in the canals, which further
restricts the flow and the ultimate supply to the land. Furthermore, the
distribution systems from the main canals have never been completed and are
inadequate to serve the irrigable area even if the water supply were suffi-
cient. These systems are almost completely lacking in control or measuring
structures, with the result that lands at the head of the system are over
irrigated to the detriment of those lands farther downstream. An additional
serious defect is that drainage systems were not provided so that large
areas of potentially productive land have become waterlogged and salinized.
3.        The conditions described above are more critical under the systems
on the right bank than under the system on the left bank, which under present
conditons can effectively irrigate about 2,800 ha. This could increase how-
ever to about 4,500 ha with the improved water supply to be provided by the
proposed project. For this reason, it was decided to defer rehabilitation
and extension of this system to a later stage.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selection and Formulation of the Project and Project Works
A. Selection and Formulation
1.        In 1953, the Government began to seriously consider construction of
a dam at the Tavera site on the Yaque del Norte river for power production
and regulation of the river flow for irrigation in the valley downstream from
Santiago. The Tavera site is about 17 km upstream from Santiago and above
the confluence of the Bao and Yaque del Norte Rivers, which are the two main
tributaries in the upper watershed.
2.        The first serious effort on surveys, studies and planning for the
project began in 1962 with the assistance of IDB and in 1966 the Government
signed a contract with Lahmeyer International of Germany for feasibility
studies and final design on the dam and hydroplant. A loan agreement of
about US$30 million for construction of these works was signed with IDB and
USAID in April 1968. Both agencies have subsequently provided about US$10
million in additional funds to cover cost increases. Construction proceeded
under contract with Morrison-Knudson, with Lahmeyer continuing as engineering
consultants, and the project will be completed in 1972.
3.        Construction of Tavera dam is the first stage of developing the
basin's land and water resources, with rehabilitation of existing irrigation
systems and extension into rain-fed areas being the second stage. With this
in mind, Government had already undertaken surveys and studies in 1965 for
development of irrigation in both the Yaque del Norte and Yaque del Sur river
basins. Investigations were carried out by SOGREAH, a French consulting firm,
under a UNDP Project, with the Bank acting as the Executing Agency. Due to
political disturbances and other difficulties, SOGREAH, however, was never
able to fulfill the original objectives of the project and it was necessary
to reduce and redefine the scope. The revised terms of reference included
preparation of a plan and feasibility study for an initial stage of irrigation
development on the Yaque del Norte river.
4.        The SOGREAH report recommended rehabilitation and extension of the
existing systems under the Bogaert and Almacigos canals on the left bank of
the river and under the Naverrete, Esperanza, Penuela, Jicome and Caneo canals
on the right bank. It was based on using the normal flow of the river, without
storage, which limited the area for which a water supply could be assured to
about 26,000 ha. The area effectively irrigated under these systems is
about 15,000 ha, with roughly 5,000 ha on the left bank and 10,000 ha on the
right bank. The proposed project would have included improvement of the
of the existing diversion dams and main canals; extension of the distributing



ANNEX 3
Page 2
systems; construction of special structures such as desilting works and
measuring weirs; improved drainage, particularly in the Laguna Salada area;
and improved roads. The cost was estimated at US$15 million and the Bank
appraised the project in May 1968. At the same time, Government decided to
go ahead with construction of Tavera dam and it was necessary to undertake a
new study that would take into account the influence of Tavera dam on the
available water supply for irrigation.
5.        The loan agreemnt for Tavera dam with IDB included a commitment to
formulate a new plan for agricultural development in the valley and provided
funds for this purpose. In 1969, the Government contracted CIEPS, a Mexican
consulting firm, to carry out the surveys, studies, and preparation of a plan
and feasibility report for a project that took into consideration Tavera dam
and reservoir, as well as a re-regulating reservoir below the confluence of
the Bao and Yaque del Norte rivers. This latter was considered necessary
since it is planned that Tavera will be used for peak power and the releases
will not conform to the irrigation demands. With these conditions, CIEPS
proposed to expand the overall area served to 40,000 ha, with an entirely
new irrigation and drainage system on the right bank to replace existing
systems, together with considerable rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
Bogaert system. A new headworks and desilting works at Santiago would pro-
vide a water supply to the entire project area by means of a new main canal
on the right bank and improve the supply to the left bank system.
6.        A review of the CIEPS feasibility study indicated that the overall
plan was basically sound but too ambitious and an IBRD pre-appraisal mission
in January 1972 recommended that the project be developed in two phases.
7.        The first phase, which is the subject of this report, would include
27,500 ha, consisting of the 4,500 ha under the left bank system and 23,000 ha
under a new system on the right bank. The second phase for extension of the
project to 40,000 ha or more would be undertaken following construction of a
dam on the Rio Bao and the resulting increase in the available water supply.
B. Project Works
Headworks
8.        The diversion dam, located on the west limit of the city of
Santiago, would be a concrete and masonry structure with a crest length of
138.0 m at elevation 148.5 a, which is sufficient to command a major part
of all lands in the valley downstream. Since this location could create a
flooding problem for lower sections in the city, a protection wall along the
right bank has already been completed. The diversion intake would be on the
left bank and discharge directly into the desilting structure. Though, this
arrangement, construction of the canal through the dense urban development
on the right bank would be avoided and advantage could also be taken of a
large bend in the river that would provide sufficient grade for discharging
the desilting basin. The foundation for the dam would be on a stable and
dense shalre formation, which would be adequate and safe.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Main Canal
9.        The main canal would have an intake at the lower end of the
desilting basin and continue on the left bank for 3.5 km to intersect the
river on the opposite side of -he loop or bend in the river. At this point,
it would croas the river to the right bank by means of a siphon. The intake
to the existing Bogaert canal would ba on the left bank at a point just before
the canal entered the siphion Beyond the siphon, the canal would pass through
600i-m tunnel built through a low range nf hills and continue down the valley,
after crossing the Autopista Duarte. Total distance would be 72.8 km. The
pumring plant for the area to be irrigated above the canal would be located
near the tunnel outlet and a main canal and distribution system would be
provided for the 1,600 ha involved. Beyond this point the canal would
replace tthe existing main canals and serve an area of about 21,500 ha.
10.       The design capacity of the main canal at the intake would be 40 m 3/
to provide for future expansion of thye project. The added cost of constructing
the canal to full capacity in the first stage would be more than justified by
the cost and inconvenience of enlarging the canal at a later date. The plan
provides for concrete lining of the main canal, as well as secondary and
tertiary laterals.
Distribution and Drainage Systems
11.       The secondary canal systems for irrigation would be designed and
laid out to serve 40-ha blocks. Only a small part of the existing systems
would be used, since the new systems would be located and aligned so as to
achieve greater uniformity and efficiency. These systems would bye provided
with modern concrete control and measuring structures and concrete lined
throughout. Approximately 270 km of new secondary canals and laterals would
be provided under the new system on the right bank.
12.       The main drainage system is based on a spacing of 500 m for the
principal drains, with secondarv collectors to serve the 40-ha blocks. Many
of the principal drains, roughly 325 km out of a total of 625 kmi, would be
provided by reconditioning natural drains. This would particularly be the
case in the upper part of the project where the land has an established
drainage pattern. In the lower part, however, the Laguna Salada for example,
where the land is more uniform and slopes are 1% or less, the intensity of
the drains would need to be greater, especially as treatment for those lands
affected by salinity. The plan would provide for open excavated drains for
the removal of excess rainfall and to maintain groundwater levels at 1 to
2 m below the surface. Due to the permeable soils and relative free movement
of groundwater, subsurface drains would not be required. The drainage and
salinity problems in parts of the project area at present have been created
by a lack of relief outlets and reclamation of these lands could be accomplished
easily with an adequate drainage system.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
On-Farm Development
13.       The project would include on-farm development as required within
the 40-ha blocks. This would consist of the tertiary irrigation canals and
farm inlet structures, on-farm drainage canals and outlets, and land levelling.
The need for on-farm drainage would be negligible over most of the project
area as the principle and secondary drains would be ample. However, certain
specific areas would require individual farm drains. For land leveling, a
similar situation exists, as the amount of leveling required would vary from
area to area. A large part of the area has already been leveled, while other
parts only need smoothing or grading to obtain a uniform surface. In some
areas, the grade is too steep or the soil too shallow to permit leveling, and,
finally, some areas would require cut and fill levelling. Determination of
the best method would be made on the basis of the results of the detailed
surveys and at the time of actual implementation of the project.
Operation and Maintenance Facilities
14.       The project would include construction of 10 combination offices
and dwellings for watermasters and gate tenders and a telephone system
between the headquarters in Santiago and key points throughout the project
area. The feasibility report divided the project area into units that
represent natural sub-divisions, proposed as operational units for project
management. For the sake of consistency, this report uses the same units,
as follows:
Net Irrigated Area
Unit 1 (Gravity): land on the left bank
served by the Bogaert and Almacigos
canals                                           4,500 ha
Unit 2 (Gravity): Area downstream from
Santiago on the right bank that would be
commanded by the proposed highline canal
to the Arroyo Jicome                            12,700 ha
Unit 2 (pumping): area to be served by proposed
pump scheme above highline canal on right
bank                                             1,600 ha
Unit 3 (Gravity): area on the right bank
commanded by the proposed highline canal
and downstream from Unit 2 to the vicinity of
Jaibon                                           8,700 ha



ANNEX 4
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand, Quality and Rights
Adequacy of Rainfall
1.        Data on rainfall and other climaic conditions have been recorded
at several stations in the project area and the upper watersheds of the
Yaque del Norte and Bao rivers since 1921. Many of these records, however,
are incomplete or inaccurate and for this reason the calculations are based
on the period 1958-70, a period of reliable record and long enough to reflect
the extremes of climatic change.
2.        The total annual rainfall in the project area tends to be fairly
uniform from year to year, without extremely wet or dry years. At Santiago,
for example, the wettest year during the 12 year period was 150% of the
annual average and the dryest year was 73% of this average. Seven of the
12 years were very close to the average. In the project area, the annual
average varies from 978 mm at Santiago, the upper end of the project area
at elevation of 175 m; to 733 am at Valverde, which is near the center of
the project at elevation 100 m; to 622 mm at Villa Vasquez, which is
several kilometers inland from the coast and just below the project area
at elevation 50 m. This tendency for the climate to become dryer and
warmer from Santiago down the valley to the coast has a strong relation to
the character of agricultural production and the need for irrigation in
different parts of the project area. A study completed in 1969 for the
Valle Occidental del Cibao, which includes the valley of the Rio Yaque del
Norte and the upper part of the Rio Yuna Valley, derived the relationship
at several stations between average annual and monthly precipitation and
evapotranspiration as calculated for typical cultivated crops. The follow-
ing table shows the deficiencies in available moisture at the three stations
in the project area.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Comparison of Average Precipitation and Evapotranspiration
Unit-mm
Santiago           Valverde                 Villa Vasquez
Evapo-                   Evapo-                    Evapo-
Precipi- trans-   Defi- Precipi- trans-   Defi- Precipi- trans-   Defi-
Month     tation   piration ency  tation   piration ency  tation   piration ency
January     55.5      84.2    28.7   21.5        92.7    71.2   26.4    87.8    61.4
February    54.1      85.9    31.8   28.8        98.1    69.3   26.2    99.5    73.3
March       58.6    116.9    58.3   39.7        132.9    93.2   35.7   135.0    99.3
April       75.5    138.9    63.4   73.3        159.3    86.0   57.7   150.7    93.0
May        175.8    153.5       0    126.6      184.1    57.5   89.1   185.1    96.0
June        67.3    165.5    98.2   87.3        193.8   106.5   81.5   203.7   122.2
July        52.5    177.0   124.5   27.4        210.8   183.4   37.4   215.1   177.7
August      59.4    186.0   126.6   39.2        221.4   182.2   32.0   212.5   180.5
September  101.5    164.9    63.4   83.2        194.2   111.0   55.3   195.2   139.9
October    101.7    143.7    42.0   97.1        175.3    78.2   74.9   183.5   108.6
November   101.3    110.4       9.1   58.7      131.6    72.9   81.1   131.5    50.4
December    74.8      89.9    15.1   50.8       102.7    51.9   65.0    99.0    34.0
Total   978.0  1,616.8   661.1  733.6   1,896.9  1,163.3 662.3 1,898.6 1,236.3
This table shows the monthly pattern of rainfall distribution which
typically consists of two rainy seasons, one in April-May-June and another
from September through December. January through March and July-August are
normally very dry. May is always the wettest month, but this season is
short and, even at Santiago, there is a deficiency for rainfed cropping.
Almost all the rainfed cultivation in the project area is carried on during
the period September-December but it is only in the upper part of the valley
that moisture is more or less adequate to achieve reasonable production
levels. The table clearly demonstrates that supplemental irrigation is re-
quired throughout the project area, less in the upper valley and more in the
lower part, to achieve satisfactory yields. The requirement is even greater
for a second crop during the spring and summer months and for certain crops
such as rice and sugarcane.
Water Supply
4.        The project water supply would be obtained by diversion from the
Rio Yaque del Norte at Santiago. The flow at this point represents the
combined flow of the Rio Yaque del Norte and the Rio Bao, the two main
tributaries of about equal size that have catchment areas in the upper
regions of the Cordillera Central. These areas extend to elevations of
1,000 m and annual rainfall ranges from 1,500 to 2,500 mm. This ensures
a high average annual flow in excess of 1,200 Mm3 at Santiago. During the
period 1961-70, the lowest annual flow was about 800 Mm3 in 1967 and the
highest 1,800 Mm3 in 1970.  In addition, several large tributaries, which
also receive their supply from catchment areas in the Cordillera Central,



ANNEX 4
Page 3
join Yaque del Norte downstream from Santiago. The diversion of a total
annual demand of about 500 Mm3 for the project would not prejudice present
rights and uses below the project area.
5.        The CIEPS proposal for a 40,000-ha project was based on operation
of a 40 MW hydroplant at Tavera as a peaking plant for an average of about
five hours each day. This pattern of operation would drastically reduce
the flow that could be diverted to irrigation since more than 80% of the
releases from Tavera would pass the diversion point within a very few hours.
It was proposed that a reregulating reservoir be constructed below the
confluence of the Yaque del Norte and Bao rivers to regulate releases on a
daily basis. However, subsequent studies have indicated that the heavy
sediment discharge of the Rio Bao would make a reregulating reservoir limited
to a capacity of 4 Mm3, impractical unless a dam is also constructed on the
Rio Bao.
6.        Feasibility studies for a dam on the Rio Bao will be completed
within the next few months and a provisional request from the Government
has been submitted to IDB for financial assistance to construct it. The
two reservoirs would be interconnected by a channel to be excavated through
a natural valley. The additional storage in Bao reservoir would then make
it possible to utilize the total installed capacity of 80 MW in the Tavera
plant for both base load and peaking power. With regulation on both rivers,
the present studies indicate that it would be possible to generate on base
load at about one third of plant capacity for 20 hours each day and to meet
peaking requirements during the remaining four hours. With this type of
operation, the flow available at Santiago would be regulated to a minimum
of 32 m3/s, providing water sufficient for an irrigation project of 35,000
to 40,000 ha without the regulating reservoir. Under these conditions, it
would be feasible to extend the project into a second phase by including
additional lands immediately below the project or to undertake extension
and improvement of lands in the lower part of the valley.
7.        A reservoir operation study based on the criteria of operating
Tavera powerplant with one unit (40 MW) for peaking, utilizing the unregu-
lated flow of the Rio Bao to the maximum extent possible, and meeting de-
ficiencies in diversion demand by additional releases from Tavera storage,
demonstrated that both the power and irrigation demands could be met with
only a minor deficiency in meeting the irrigation demand, during four
months in one out of 10 years. The study indicates also that more than 80%
of the irrigation demand would be met by normal flow of the Bao and that
the balance would come from both power and irrigation releases at Tavera.
While the study confirms that the supply available to the project would be
more than adequate, it also demonstrates that Tavera dam and powerplant,
when operated for peaking and without a reregulating reservoir, would
actually contribute a minor part of the supply to the project. It would
provide limited benefit from using storage to supplement the low flows of
the Bao and maintain a constant discharge at the diversion intake. It is



ANNEX 4
Page 4
clear, however, that Tavera would provide even less benefit to a project
larger than the one proposed unless, as noted above, a dam is built on the
Bao and the powerplant is operated primarily for base load.
8.        A summary of the reservoir operation study on an annual basis
is presented in Table 1.
Water Demand
9.        The consumptive use requirements for all crops included in the
proposed cropping pattern for the project (Annex 9) were estimated by the
Blaney-Criddle method, modified for the clinatic conditions in the project
area. The calculations on a monthly basis for each crop took into account
double cropping and effective rainfall in the upper and lower zones of the
project area. Effective rainfall was taken as one-half of the monthly
averages for the period 1958-70. January and February were excepted since
rainfall during those months is too low to have any appreciable effect.
Table 2 shows the estimated annual and monthly requirements for each crop
according to the cropping calendar and the area in each crop, which, with
double cropping, totals 33,250 ha. The monthly and annual diversion de-
mands at the diversion headworks were calculated on thie basis of an overall
efficiency of 60%.
Water Quality
10.       One of the most important benefits of the project would be the
supply of good quality water to all lands in the project area. This would
be possible with the excellent quality of the river flow at the diversion
works, lined canals throughout the project, and an adequate drainage system.
Tests of the flow at Santiago indicate a very low content of soluble salts,
with a maximum of less than 200 ppm, composed primarily of calcium and
magnesium bicarbonates, with minor amounts of sodium, chlorides, and sul-
phates. Boron is not present and there are no excesses in any of the other
minor elements. The sodium adsorption ratio is also low. The lined canals
would minimize contamination in transit and an adequate drainage system would
convey the effluent out of the project area without remixing with the irri-
gation supply.
11.       At the present time, the Bogaert and Navarrete system benefit from
this water but downstream the soluble salt content progressively increases.
This is mainly due to a high groundwater table that dissolves salts from
the saline marine sediments, from which the soils are derived, and brings
them to the surface. In addition to creating a saline condition on a given
area, a certain amount of these salts are picked up and returned to the
river by the effluent from irrigation or subsurface flow of groundwater.
This return flow increases the salt content of the river and when this water
is reused downstream the process is repeated, thereby increasing the salt



ANNEX 4
Page 5
content still more. For example, the Caneo canal shows a ppm of 500 while
the Jicome has 1,250. This latter canal is the main supply to the Laguna
Salada area where the salizination of about 8,000 ha has seriously affected
agricultural production. The situation in this area is also worsened by a
lack of proper drainage, which results in a saline groundwater table near
the surface. Water samples from the Laguna Salada run more than 2,000 ppm.
12.       With an adequate drainage system to lower the groundwater level
and eliminate this source of salts, all of the saline lands in the project
can be reclaimed easily and simply with a moderate supply of fresh water.
Under these conditions, the salts would be flushed downward from the surface
and carried off in the drainage system.
13.       This reclamation phase, particularly in the Laguna Salada, could
increase the salt content of the river below the project area since the
drainage system must ultimately discharge into the river. This, however,
when mixed with the heavy discharges of fresh water during peaking operations
at Tavera dam which will flow downstream without being deminished by diver-
sions, should not appreciably increase the salt content of the total flow
or create a problem for projects in the lower valley that use this water.
In the future this effect would diminish once the surface soils were fully
leached and the dissolving cf salts in the marine sediments reduced by
lowering the groundwater level.
14.       Another problem with water quality is the heavy sediment discharge
of the Rio Bao during periods of high or flood flows. As noted in the
section on ecology in the main report, the Bao watershed is subject to
serious erosion during heavy rainfall and this produces sediments, ranging
from silt to sand to gravel, which are deposited in the existing canal
systems. Constant cleaning therefore is required, especially on Bogaert and
Navarrete, but this problem will be eliminated on the proposed project by
the desilting works.
Water Rights
15.       In the Dominican Republic, the development and use of water re-
sources, defined as part of the public domain, are subject to Law 5852, "Ley
del Dominio de las Aguas Terrestres." This law covers virtually every aspect
of water development, from both underground and surfaces sources, and for
domestic, industrial, and agricultural uses. It provides, among other things,
for the creation of irrigation districts and the granting of titles for the
use of water for irrigation.
16.       In the law, the Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidraulicos (INDRHI)
is vested with authority to grant water titles based on an appraisal of the
adequacy of works, existing or planned, to use the water effectively. This
agency also has the responsibility of supervising use of the water and en-
suring that all conditions of the law are fulfilled, including measurement
of the amount of water used and establishing priority of use between groups
of farmers supplied from a common source.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
17.       Under the law, a water title is inherent to the land and not to
the individual who owns or farms the land. The title may be canceled or
transferred to other land, subject to the judgment of INDRHI, and uses
in the public interest have priority over private uses. Water users are
obligated to request a specific amount of water each year that can be used
effectively for the purposes indicated in the title and this request is either
granted or modified by INDRHI, depending on the water supply and facilities
available to satisfy such requests.
18.       In consideration of the existing irrigation systems and water
titles, in force in the project area, together with the non-irrigated land
that would be brought under the new system, a great deal of work would be
required by INDRHI to reorder existing titles and grant new titles. This
would be particularly true with implementation of a land reform program
whereby land ownership, farm size, and boundaries would be subject to con-
siderable change. Furthermore, if water charges or land taxes would be
assessed on a fixed cost per hectare basis, water titles would provide a
minimum annual entitlement sufficient for two field crops each year (Annex 8).



DOMINICAI REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Suzuary of Reservoir 0peration Study
I      Annual Flow                         DiversionDe dDiversion
_ _ } _ _                             Rio Bao                    -                       ~ Diverio  Su Tavera Dan
Rio Yaque Del Norte   Rio Bao at                               From Normal       Percent                    .      From Power & Irrigationl                      Percent of Total
at3Tavera Dam           Saptiago       Total at Santiago    Flow of  a          of                Percent of       Releases at Tavera Dam   Percent of           Flow of Yaque Del
Year      m  million               m-; million    mJ mi-llion            m3 mitlior.    Total Demand    Normal Flow           mj mlllier.                Total Demand    Niorte
1961            858.2               699.5             516.7                  499.9              97              71                16.8                        3                    19
1962            634.0               532.2             516.7                  480.0              93              91                36.7                        7                     6
1963            829.8               717.7             516.7                  462.2              89               64               54.5                       11                     7
1964            405.0               429.1             516.7                  393.2              76               92               123.5                      24                    30
1965            550.6               500.5             516.7                  430.9              83               86               85.8                       17                    16
1966            604.8               586.2             516.7                  471.9              91               81                44.8                        9                    7
1967            425.o               377.5             516.7                  361.5              70               96               155.2                       30                   37
1968            443.5               545.4             516.7                  425.6              82               78                91.1                       18                   20
1969            658.8               789.9             516.7                  505.9              98               65                10.8                       21                    2
1970            969.8               840.1             516.7                  490.9              95               58                25.8                        5                    3
July, 1972
! (I



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Water Requirements and Division Demand
Total Area Annual Requirement
CroDR                       Cropped       in Meters            J      F       M      A   _           J      J       A       S      0       N      D
Rice                      10,400            1.67                                    21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8             21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8
Plantains                  2,300            0.63             0.69   1.15   1.61   1.84   1.61   2.30   3.00   2.30   1.38   0.69   0.46   0.23
Manioc                       300            0.43             0.05   0.09   0.12   0.14   0.12   0.18   0.21   0.18   0.11   0.05   0.04   0.02
Sugarcane                  2,200            1.29             1.54   1.76   2.42   2.64   2.20   3.08   3.74   3.52   2.64   1.50   1.10   0.80
Tobacco Criollo            1,300            0.32              1.37   1.37   0.38                                                                 0.70
Tobacco Olor               8,500            0.32             9.35   9.35   6.80                                                                  5.10
Beans                      2,470            0.22                                    1.23   1.97   2.71   2.22             0.98   1.97   2.22   1.23
Vegetables                   800            0.47             0.72   0.80   0.80   0.80   0.40                                                    0.24
Peanuts                    1,500            0.36                                    0.90   1.50   1.50   1.50
Corn                       1,400            0.28                                    0.56   1.12   1.82   0.70             0.56   1.00   1.18   0.50
Sorghum                    1,300            0.28                                                                   0.65   1.56   1.30   0.65
Soybean                    2,160            0.39                                    1.00   1.94   3.02   0.61             1.00   2.60   2.16   1.29
Pepper                       400            0.36             0.44   0.44   0.25                                                           0.12   0.16
Tomatoe                      820            0.36             0.98   0.98   0.60                                                           0.24   0.41
Total              35,850
Monthly Crop Water                                           15.1   16.0   13.0   30.9   32.7   36.4   33.8    6.6   30.0   30.9   30.0   32.5
Requirement
Monthly Diversion
Demand                                                    36.2   40.0   21.5   38.7   68.7   81.2   53.0   17.0   28.2   47.5   47.2   37.5
Total Irrigation Requirement   307.9  Mm
Total Diversion Demand           516.7  Mm
December, 1972



ANNEX 5
Table 1
DCMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
US Million
Item                                           L        Foreign   Total
Headworks                                        0.7       1.0      1.7
Main canal to km 3.5                             0.2       0.4      0.6
Unit 2 (Gravity)
Main canal to km 36.5                            1.9       2.9      4.8
Distribution system                              1.9       2.8      4.7
Drainage system                                  0.5       0.8      1.3
on-farm development                              0.8       1.1      1.9
Unit 2 (Pimping)
Pumping plant                                    0.1       0.2      0.3
Distribution system                              0.4       0.6      1.0
Drainage system                                  0.1       0.2      0.3
on-farm development                              0.1       0.2      0.3
Unit 3 (Gravity)
Main canal to km 72.8                            1.4       2.1      3.5
Distribution system                              1.0       1.4      2.4
Drainage system                                  0.6       0.8      1.4
On-farm development                              0.5       0.7      1.2
Total Civil Works                         10.2     15.2      25.4
Land Acquisition and  Resettlement                    3.2       -       3.2
Equipment                                              -       0.6      0.6
Buildings                                            0.2        -       0.2
Consultant Services                                  0.7       2.4      3.1
Sub-total                                 14.3        2
Contingencie s
Physical                                         1.1       1.7      2.8
Price                                            0.6       3.1      3.7
Grand Total                               16.0     23.0      39.0
December, 1972






ANNEX 6
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total                    Calendar Year
Item                          Cost   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1278   1979
---------------------US  million---------------------
Feadworks and Desilting Works      1.7     -     0.3    0.7    0.7       -      -      -
M:ain Canal to km 3.5              0.6      -      -     0.3    0.3      -      -      -
U;nit 2 (Gravity)
Main Canal to km 36.5           4.8     -       -     1.6    1.8    1.4      -      -
Distribution systef             4.7     -      -      0.9    1.8    2.0      -      -
Drainage system                 1.3     -      -       -     0.6    0.7      -      -
On-farm development             1.9     -       -      -     0.5    0.6    0.8      -
Unit 2 (Pumping)
Pumping plant                   0.3     -      -       -     0.1    0.2      -      -
Distribution systen             1.0     -      -       -     0.3    0.5    0.2      -
Drainage system                 0.3     -       -      -     0.1    0.1    0.1      -
On-farm development             0.3     -       -      -      -     0.1    0.2      -
Unit 3 (Gravity)
Main Canal to km 72.8           3.5     -       -      -     1.0    2.0    0.5      -
Distribution system             2.4     -       -      -     0.4    1.0    1.0      -
Drainage systen                 1.4     -       -      -     0.3    o.6    0.5      -
On-farm development             1.2     -       -      -      -     0.6    0.6      -
Total Civil Works          25.4     -     0.3    3.5    7.9    9.8    3.9       -
Land Acquisition and Settlement. 3.2       -     0.3    0.6    1.0    0.8    0.5       -
Equipment                          0.6    0.1    0.1      -     0.2    0.2      -      -
Buildings                          0.2     -       -      -     0.1    0.1      -      -
Consultant Services                3.1    o.4    0.5    0.6    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.1
Sub-Total                  32.5    0.5    1.2    4.7    9.7   11.4    4.9    0.1
Contingencies
Physical                        2.8     -     0.1    o.5    1.0    1.0    0.2       -
Price                           3.7     -     0.1    0.5    1.o    1.4    0.7       -
Total                      39.0    0.5    1.4    5.7   11.7   13.8    5.8    0.1
November, 1972



ANNEX 6
Table 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal                                    Cumulative Disbursements1/
Year and Quarter                                    End of Quarter  - US$'000
1973/74
March 31, 1974                                                  200
June 30, 1974                                                  400
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                             500
December 31, 1974                                               600
March 31, 1975                                                  800
June 30, 1975                                                1,020
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                           1,330
December 31, 1975                                            1,630
March 31, 1976                                               1,930
June 30, 1976                                                2,300
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                           3,120
December 31, 1976                                            3,940
March 31, 1977                                               4,760
June 30, 1977                                                5,570
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                           6,590
December 31, 1977                                            7,610
March 31, 1978                                               8,680
June 30, 1978                                                9,840
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                          10,580
December 31, 1978                                           11,320
March 31, 1979                                              12,000
June 30, 1979                                               12,400
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                          12,800
December 31, 1979                                           12,900
March 31, 1980                                              13,000
1/ Quarterly disbursements follow expenditures
with an estimated lag of 6 months.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Consultant Services
1.        Consultant services would be provided for the following two main
purposes:
(a) for detailed surveys, final design, and supervision of
construction of the civil works, including on-farm devel-
opment; and
(b) for coordination and assistance on agrarian reform, credit,
research, operation and maintenance, and extension during
the agricultural development phase of the project. Negotia-
tions are already underway with a firm experienced in en-
gineering and construction and the agricultural development
phase of the project will require the services of a firm
with specialized experience in this field.
2.        It is envisaged that these consultant services would be provided
by two separate firms, one specialized in engineering and the other in agri-
cultural development.
3.        The Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidraulicos (INDRKI) would
assign full responsibility to a consulting firm for surveys, design, con-
tracting, and supervision of construction, as the present staff of INDRHI
is not adequate to undertake additional responsibility for the project. The
consulting firm would also be required to recruit local staff to complement
the expatriate staff. INDRHI would retain general responsibility for contract
administration on both the consultant and construction contracts, and to
approve plans and specifications, select prospective contractors and issue
tender documents, negotiate and sign contracts, approve estimates and make
payments for work accomplished, and manage the financial aspects with respect
to both local currency and foreign exchange.
4.        The consultant firm for the engineering and construction phase
would be responsible for the following activities;
a)   Review the proposed plan for the project and perform
additional studies as required;
b)   perform detailed surveys as required for design and layout
of the project, including topographic surveys for land
leveling;
c)   prepare final designs, specifications, and cost estimates;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
d)   prepare mass diagrams, quantity estimates and elevations
for land leveling;
e)   provide layout stakes for the contractor and make final
inspections for compliance with specifications;
f)   prepare tender documents and contracts and assist in
evaluation of bids;
g)   supervise construction, perform final inspections, certify
payments to contractors and for withdrawals from the
credit;
h)   prepare specifications and assist with inspection and
acceptance of equipment and materials purchased directly
by INDRHI for the project;
j)   prepare progress reports as required; and
k)   provide in-service training to local staff employed on
the project.
5.        The composition of the engineering consultant team would include
surveyors, topographers, draftsmen, design engineers, construction engineers,
inspectors and administrative staff. In the proposed construction schedule,
the work of the consultants would begin in January 1973, or before if
possible, and extend through the estimated five year construction period.
The lapse of one year before construction actually begins is due to the
large amount of survey and design work to be performed at the beginning of
the project.
6.        The consultants team for the agricultural development phase would
be responsible for:
(a) assistance in the preparation and timing of a detailed
plan for acquisition and redistribution of project lands;
(b) assistance in the implementation of this plan over the
project period, including the settlement of farm families;
(c) coordination and strengthening of the extension services
under the project, to assist the farmers in the adoption of
a more intensive cropping pattern;
(d) assistance to the credit and marketing services under the
project, in order to coordinate and supervise the channeling
of credit to project farmers;



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(e) assistance to the operation and maintenance services under
the project in order to prepare and implement a water
delivery schedule, prepare an operation and maintenance
manual and organise the collection of water charges, and
(f) provision of in-service training to local staff employed on
the project.
7.        The agricultural consultant team would be employed over a 5-year
period (1974-78); it would be headed by a senior extension specialist and
include experts on agronomy, irrigation practices, operation and maintenance,
credit and marketing, and agrarian reform. It is presently estimated that
two of the five experts would be provided by UNDP/FAO and ICO.
8.        An important function of the consultants for the engineering,
construction and agricultural development phases of the project would be
to provide in-service training to local staff assigned or employed on the
project. This training would be provided on a number of technical activities
related to engineering and construction, on operation and maintenance of
the completed works and on the extension, credit and land reform aspects
of the agricultural development phase. One of the main objectives would be
to improve the organization and develop procedures for operation and main-
tenance and the extension and credit programs which would continue to serve
the project in the future. The local staff which would benefit from this
training is estimated as follows:
Type of Staff                                                  Number
a)   engineering and technical staff on surveys, design
and construction;                                           30
b)   agronomists on research and crop production;                  6
c)   extension agents providing assistance to farmers;           10
d)   extension agents on credit and marketing;                     6
e)   land reform specialists;                                      4
f)   technical and operating staff on operation and
maintenance of the project and improvement of
irrigation practices.                                       30






ANNEX 8
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
1.        Law No. 5852 of June 1966 puts the responsibility for operation
and maintenance of all irrigation systems constructed by Government in the
hands of INDRHI. This also includes the granting of titles for use of
water, the approval of annual water allotments on request, the scheduling
of water deliveries and the collection of water charges. The law also
establishes a basic charge of RD$ 2.50 per ha for all irrigated farms up to
10 ha and RD$ 5.50 for each additional ha. These rates are still in force
even though it was planned to increase them progressively over the years.
Furthermore, collection of these charges is not always enforced due to the
malfunctioning of the system under present conditions, and to the fact that
large water users such as the sugarcane plantation have been exempted from
paying water charges. It is evident, therefore, that revenues from water
charges have never been adequate and, although collections have improved
in recent years, they still represent only 15% of INDRHI's operating budget.
2.        Under the project, field staff would be increased and additional
equipment purchased for operation and maintenance (Table 1). An important
part of the increase in staff would be additional water masters and gate
tenders so that the delivery and measurements of water supplied could be
controlled more accurately than at present. Annual operation and maintenance
costs for the 27,500 ha project at full development are estimated as shown
in the table below:
Item                                             Estimated Annual Cost
RD$
Personnel                                               242,000
Equipment operation (including depreciation)            160,000
Electric energy for pumping                              32,000
Materials and supplies                                   16,000
Total                     450,000
On this basis, annual operation and maintenance costs would be recovered if
a fixed annual charge of RD$ 17 per na were imposed on all lands commanded
by the system. In addition, it is presently estimated that an additional
charge would be imposed to recover a portion of the investment costs; tle



ANNEX 8
Page 2
mount of such levy and its allocation between the various categories of
water users would be determined by the water charges study. In any case,
however, the level of charges would substantially increase as a result
of the project and no exemptions would be allowed in the future.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Equipment
Estimated
Number    Cost  CIF
1.   Operation and Maintenance                                          US$ '000
Draglines,-3/4 cu yd, 40 ft boom                     2            90
Tractor, 180 hp, track type, with
angle dozer                                        1            45
Motorgraders, 125 hp, 12 foot blade                   2            60
Excavator,  mobile, gradall type                      1           30
Truck, heavy duty with trailer, 10 ton                1           26
Trucks, dump, 5 cu yd                                4            40
Trucks, stake, 2 ton                                  2           12
Trucks, pickup, 3/4 ton                               2            8
Mobile servicing unit                                 1            10
Vehicles, utility, 4-wheel drive                     4             12
Motorcycles                                          15             5
Vehicles, station wagon                               4            12
-Miscellaneous (concrete mixer, welding
machine, shop equipment and tools)                lot            20
Telephone equipment                                 lot            50
Sub-total                                             420
2.   Engineering-and Supervision
Vehicles, station wagon, 4-wheel drive                6            20
Vehicles, pickup, 1 ton                               2             9
Vehicles, station wagon, standard                     6            18
Laboratory, engineering and office equipment    lot                18
Sub-total                                               65
3.   Extension Service
Vehicles, utility, 4-wheel drive                     10            30
Vehicles, station wagon                              10            30
Miscellaneous equipment                             lot            15
Sub-total                                               75
Contingencies and spare parts                                      40
Total                                                  600
July, 1972






i,OMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQOTE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECI
t'uture Croppinig Paetern Without the Project-/
Crops                         ('ropped                             Gross Value of        Production
Area        Yield       Price        Production           Cost               Net Value of Production
(iia)     ron/ha)    (RDS/ton)        (ROB/ha)             (RD$ /ha)        (RDiS/ha)     (RDS '000)
1ighlt Bank Area               11.500                                                                                      2,039.5
irrigated                     9,500                                                                                      1,322.0
S-uga.'rane_z               2.''00    85.00         7.50          637.50                 356              281.50         619.3
lire4 '5,600                           1.67       1210.00         200.40                 '06               94.40         528.6
Plantain.s 4!               1,400     15.00        13.00          195.00,                9S                 98.00        137.2
loriatoes                     300    20.00         30.50          610.00                 487              123.00          36.'
N,--lrrigartd                 ',400'                                                                                        717.5
lo.acco Cri,llo             1,300      1.00       500.00          500.00                 240              260.00         338.0
Tobac5e Olor                  500      0.85       87C.00          739.50                 357              382.50         2'9.5
OiLer-                        500       -             -              -                    -                  -           150.0
L.eft Bank Are.a                 3,100                                                                                        368.5
lrrigat,d                     2,80                                                                                         270.4
ice -/                     1.800      1.67       120.00          200.40                 106               94.40         169.9
l'lautainsis                  900    15.00          13.00         195.00                  97               98.00          88.2
IOMMols                       100    20.00         30.50          610.00                 487              123.00          12.3
Nou-trrigate                    300                                                                                          98.1
tobtacco Criolto              150      1.0        500.00          500.00                 240.             260.00          39.0
lobacco Oior                   50    0.85         870.00          739.50                 357              382.50          19.1
00,- r_                       1100     -             -               -                     -                 -            40.0
'OI'Al                1S,000                                                                                      2,408.0
Income fr,'n  I  sv-tock                                                                                                      358.7
C IAN" "O!'A'                                                                                                      2,766.7
I '  PreselnL :rod.cr:n dilffers trom fulture production without the projec:  to t"he extent that 'a) sugarcane xtelds
are  -plectod to' decline from  105 rons to 85 tons per ha due to increas-no  sllilt.  decli-e  n net nroduction
vjale of TDS330,0l);  5b) the tobacco area is expected to increase 5: '00 'a  ith a sh.ft from .riollo  (-200 ha)
co the more profitable .lor varietes (+400 ha) with a resulting net increase in production vala- .of "SIh3,000,
and kc) v-,ild  increases of I  per annum ' ave been assu:ed during the development period for all crops other thar
rice and sugarcane witi a corresponding increase  n production costs of 0,7' per annum; resiLting in a net
increase in production value of about ROS160,000.
2.' rN, rrice of s,drcane 'an Seen calculated on the basis of a sugar price of RDSO.06 per lb with extraction rate
if .S  and oO' of the value going to cane production.
3'  .he   old of nadd. is 1.3 ton per ',a on first crop and 0.7 ton per ha ratooct crop, the latter being harvested
.n  Sos  50  of tlie  otail rice acreage.
-'.   y eld and rrice of plantain, is calculated in stems of 1,000.
5/  Includ-s small acrea-es of 'ica, sorhunm. corn. neanuts, onions, beans, chickpeas and fodder crops.
.ni , 1)7'



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Future Cropping Pattern With the Project
Crops                       Cropped                            Gross Value of       Production     Net Value of Production
Area      Yield         Pric',    Production           Cost           before W7ater Charges
(ha)    (ton/ha)    (RD$/ton)       (RD$/ha)            (RD$/ha)       (RD$/ha)       (RD$'000)
Right Bank Area              29,650                                                                                   9,593,7
Sugarcanel/                2,200      120          7.50         900                 465             435             957.0
Rice                       7,450      3.5        120.00         420                 218             202           1,505.0
Plantains 2/               1,550        25        13.00         325                 121             204             316.2
Tobacco Criollo            1,200       1.4       500.00         700                 277             423              507.6
Tobacco Olor               8,000      1.2        870.00       1,044                 515             529           4,232.0
Sorghum                      800      3.5         60.00         210                  65             145              116.0
Corn                         900      4.0         65.00         260                  75             185              166.5
Manioc                       300        11         44.00         484                 69             415              124.5
Peanuts                    1,500      1.8        185.00         333                 159             174              261.0
Soybeans                   1,900      1.6        130.00         208                 105             103              195.7
Tomatoes                     700        30        30.50         915                 520             395              276.5
Peppers                      400        18        43.50         783                 340             443              177.2
Red and Black Beans        1,950       1.5       220.00         330                 119             211             411.5
Other Vegetables             800        -            -            -                  -              --               347.0
Left Bank Area                6,200                                                                                     834.1
Rice                       2,950      2.0        120.00         240                 130             110              324.5
Plantains2/                  750        15        13.00         195                 121              74               55.5
Tobacco Criollo              100       1.1       500.00         550                 262             288               28.8
Tobacco Olor                 500      0.9        870.00         783                 470             313              156.5
Sorghum                      500      3.0         60.00         180                  65             115               57.5
Corn                         500      3.4         65.00         221                  75             146               73.0
Soybeans                     260      1.2        130.00         156                  98              58               15.1
Red and Black Beans          520      1.3        220.00         286                 113             173               90.0
Tomatoes                     120        25        30.50         762                 486             276               33.2
TOTAL               35,850                                                                                  10,427.8
Income from Livestock                                                                                                   834.9
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                 11,262.7
Cropping Intensity           130%
1/ See footnote (2) table 1 of this annex.                                                                                                          !
2/ See footnote (4) table I of this annex.
July, 1962



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Analysis of Production Costs with the Project
Rice  Plantains  Tobacco  Tobacco  Peanuts   Soybeans   Corn   Sorghum   Beans   Tomatoes
Criollo  Olor
----------------------------------RD$/ha--------------------________________________
Seeds                     11.0      8.0        16.0       16.0    9.6         4.0       3.8      1.6       7.2      64.0
Fertilizer                40.0    40.0         48.0       57.6   14.4         6.4       6.2      2.4       6.4      44.8
Pesticides                18.4    24.0         20.8       20.8    5.6         2.4       2.4       -        2.4      28.8
Other 1/                    8.0     4.0        24.0       24.0      -           -        -        -         -       24.0
Power 2/                  80.0      9.6         9.6       44.0   48.0        48.0      48.0    48.0      48.0        72.0
Interest 3/                6.4    12.0         22.0       30.6   15.2         4.0       1.8      1.8       2.4       19.2
Hauling                    4.0    20.0         13.2       13.2   24.3         5.3       6.7      8.0       8.0         -
Equipment maintenance       3.0     3.2         3.2        3.2    3.2         3.2       1.6      3.2       3.2        3.2
Hired labor4              47.2      -         120.4      305.0   38.4        32.0       4.6       -       41.4      264.0
Total              218.0   120.8       277.2      514.4   158.7       105.3      75.1    65.0    119.0       520.0
--------------------------------------Man-days/ha/year------------------------------------
Estimated total labor
requirement (including
family labor)            175      106         114       226      98         69         47       24        63       214
1/  Fences, maintenance of irrigation and drainage ditches, weed control.
2/ Use of draft animal power or depreciation and interest on machinery. It has been assumed that 50% of 3.75 ha
farms would be partly mechanized and 50% would use draft animals; all farms under 3.75 ha would not be
mechanized and all farms of 7.5 ha and more would be mechanized at least for land preparation and to the
extent that corn, sorghum, peanuts and soybeans would be grown, for harvesting.
3/  Interest on short term credit (calculated at annual rate of 8%).
4! Costed at current wage rates of RD$2.00 per day. The hired labor component has been calculated for an
average farm size of 7 ha at full development; on a per ha basis, it would in practice be lower on small                         >
farms and higher on large farms.
August 14, 1972                                                                                                                     w c






ANNEX 10
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Marketing
Rice
1.        Rice is one of the basic foodcrops, with an average per capita
consumption of about 25 kg per year. Production in the country has increased
from 110,000 tons in 1961 to about 200,000 tons in 1970, or about 7% per
year, which is more than double the increase in population. As a result,
rice imports have been all but eliminated and with a relatively slow increase
in total consumption (4% per year), the country is rapidly heading for rice
production in excess of its requirements. This trend could even become
more pronounced as the use of higher yielding varieties, developed by the
National Rice Research Institute, increases.
2.        The increase in production has been mainly the result of high
support prices; the Government sets floor-prices by means of import levies,
which establishes the rice price at wholesale level. In addition, it guaran-
tees the farm-gate price for paddy, thereby fixing milling-industry margins
within a certain range. This support program is backed up by Government
purchases through the Price Stabilisation Institute (INSPRE), in order to
reduce seasonal price fluctuations. At present, farm-gate prices for paddy
average around RD$ 120 per ton and wholesale prices for rice (20% broken)
reach some $230 per ton, or 55% above world market prices CIF Santo-Domingo.
3.        It is Government policy to avoid subsidized exports to the extent
possible. It would, however, be politically difficult to lower support
prices significantly as the majority of farms with rice fields are small;
in addition, once law no. 290 on expropriation of rice lands has been
applied, no farms will remain with rice fields in excess of about 31 ha.
Although it is too early to judge the law's effect on rice production, there
is a widespread feeling in the country that - at least initially - production
would drop off. In the long run, however, an increase in water charges and,
more particularly, a better enforced collection of such charges, would help
to balance rice production in accordance with domestic requirements.
4.        With a projected increase in rice consumption of about 4% per year,
which is based on an annual population growth of between 2.5 and 3.0% and
an increase in per capita consumption of rice between 1.0 and 1.5%, overall
demand for rice in the country by 1985, when the project is expected to
reach full development, would be about 390,000 tons per year. The project's
share in this total would be about 9%, which is slightly above its present
contribution of 7%. With the Yaque del Norte expected to be one of the



ANNEX 10
Page 2
country's major undertaking in the field of irrigation in the coming years,
the project's share in the national rice production would not represent any
marketing difficulties.
Tobacco
5.        Tobacco production has increased sharply over the last six years
mainly as a result of favorable prices and the introduction of new varieties
with low nicotine content, which are strongly in demand. About 85% of
domestic production is exported every year; exports have gone up from US$6.6
million in 1966 to US$20.7 million in 1971, and are directed mainly towards
Western Europe, where Dominican tobacco is used as filler material for cigars.
Most of the increase in exports in the last two years, however, is due to
the successful introduction of Cuban-type tobacco, which is in strong demand
in the United States and Puerto Rico markets, and, at the same time, commands
prices which are about 50% to 60% higher than those for the traditional
"criollo" and "olor" varieties.
6.        While the prospects for export are extremely favorable, the dom-
estic market also has good potential for development. At present, consumers'
taste is changing from the "criollo", or "black tobacco", cigarette to the
higher priced burley and Virginia types, for which the tobacco is mostly
imported from the United States. Virginia and burley tobacco, however, have
been successfully introduced in the tobacco-growing areas, and, with the
present trend, a strong increase in domestic production is expected, which
in time could substitute for existing imports.
7.        The marketing structure for tobacco in the project area is also
fairly well developed; 16 export firms are represented in Santiago and buy
or contract the harvest directly with the producers. In addition, the
Tobacco Institute, an autonomous Government agency, as well as the Cooperative
Union of Tobacco Producers buy and sell tobacco both on the domestic market
and on the export market, and have a supervised credit program for short
term credit to the farmer. Although most of the tobacco is presently grown
under rain-fed conditions, the possibilities for increasing yields under
irrigation, as well as improvement in quality through the combat of diseases,
have been demonstrated on the experimental fields of the Tobacco Institute,
located in the project area.
8.        It is therefore expected that, with the project, production would
increase eight-fold, with a major shift from the "criollo" to the higher
priced Virginia and Cuban varieties. The increase would be due both to an
extension in acreage and from yield increases. This would be equivalent to
a production increase of 25% to 30% per year during the development period;
increases in dry-land tobacco during the last three years have averaged
around 15% to 20% per annum.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Sugar
9.        A Government-owned sugarcane plantation of about 2,000 ha is lo-
cated in the project area and it presently receives all its water require-
ments from the existing irrigation system. The only benefits it would
realize from the project would be improved drainage and a consequent reduc-
tion in salinity, which is beginning to affect sugarcane yields. Only a
marginal increase in sugar production is expected under the project.
Oil Seeds and Feed Grains
10.       Groundnuts, the only sizeable vegetable-oil crop produced in the
country, are also grown on a small scale in the project area. Yields
are low, but, with prices supported at about 25% over present world market
price levels, production has expanded to about 75,000 tons in 1971, covering
some 50% of domestic demand. Peanuts are mostly bought up by the principal
vegetable oil producer, La Manicera, and processed, together with soybeans
into oil and feed concentrates. Demand for vegetable oil has been rising
at 15% per year during the last decade and similar increases are experienced
with processed feed.
11.       Soybeans are not commercially produced in the country but have
produced excellent yields under field trials in the project area. Although
the crop is slightly less profitable than peanuts, demand for it would be
strong, mainly for animal feed processing. In addition, the marketing system
is quite favorable for the promotion of peanuts and soybeans, as La Manicera
has established purchase points throughout the country, operated by its own
personnel or commissioned agents; considerable margins between producer
prices and factory purchase prices are thereby avoided.
12.       Corn and Sorghum are both produced in the project area at present,
although in small and declining quantities because of poor cultivation
practices and variety deterioration. Experimental trials in the project
area have however, demonstrated the high yield possibilities of improved
varieties. Increased demand, mainly as pork and poultry feed, is apparent
in the 30% rise in imports over the 1967-1971 period. Production of corn
and sorghum in the project area would benefit both local production of poultry
and hogs and establish a dependable supply of feed for areas adjacent to the
project area, where poultry and hogs are already commercially produced.
Plantains
13.       Plantains are a primary food crop in the country and are extensively
produced in the project area for local consumption and, to some extent, for
supplying the city of Santiago. Annual per capita consumption averages
around 95 kg and is not expected to increase significantly in the future.
The annual increase in production resulting from the project would only be
marginal: no expansion of acreage is foreseen, while yields would increase



ANNEX 10
Page 4
about 2.5% annually up to 1985 mainly because of better drainage, more
use of fertilizer and better root stock treatment, which is within the
expected increase in demand.
14.       Plantain exports to Puerto Rico and, to a minor extent, to mainland
USA, have increased from 46 tons to 4,000 tons per year over the 1968-1971
period; the latter still representing only 1% of domestic production. Most
plantains for export come from areas near Santo Domingo, such as the Azua
plain, and have the advantage of lower transportation cost. The project
area is not expected to become a significant producer for the export market.
Vegetables
15.       Vegetable production in the project area is limited at present to
tomatoes for processing under contract to two tomato processing plants in
the area, and to onions, beans and sweet potatoes on small acreages. Green
vegetables are not grown, even for the family food supply in the farmers'
home gardens. Such vegetables, at present, have only a limited market in
the urban centers, as they are regarded as a luxury item and not normally
a part of the Dominican diet. Moreover, domestic demand is presently satis-
fied by other producing areas closer to city markets and where rainfall is
adequate.
16.       Vegetable export possibilities, notably the export of winter
vegetables to Puerto Rico (where production is declining) and mainland US,
are promising; however, the conditions for success in these markets, espe-
cially in regard to demands for quality, dependability of supply, grading,
packaging and transportation, are so high that they can only be satisfied
by a fairly large-scale commercial operation with good know-how and an inte-
grated supply-marketing chain. Even so, experimentation and research would
have to precede any commercial operation, as demonstrated elsewhere in the
country. In addition, Dominican produce has to bear fairly high costs be-
cause of inefficient handling and transportation and has difficulty in com-
peting with other foreign suppliers of the US winter vegetable market; it
can only do so if efficiency in production and marketing is achieved from
the outset.
17.       It is expected that vegetable production in the project area would
gradually develop and cover about 800 ha at the end of the development period.
Most of the produce would come from tomatoes, black beans, both fresh and
for processing, and other miscellaneous vegetables such as peppers, onions,
garlic, chickpeas and sweet potatoes. This forecast is based on the experi-
mentation, research and marketing carried out by the two processing plants,
one of which is co-owned by an experienced US firm.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Rice Farms
Farm Size                                 3.75 ha           7.5 ha                 10 ha             20 ha
Present  Future   Present  Future   Present  Future   Present  Future
Cropped area under rice (ha)           3.75    6.50         7.5     13.1        10     16.5          20    27.8
Production (tons)                      6.3    22.9         12.5     45.9      16.7    57.8         33.4   97.5
Farmgate price (RD$)                   120       120        120       120       120      120         120    120
Gross value of production (RD$)        756    2,748      1,500    5,508    2,004   6,936          4,008 11,700
Production costs (RD$)                 398    1,431         795    2,856    1,020   3,597         2,040  6,060
Net value of production before
water charges (RD$)                   358    1,317         705    2,652        984   3,339        1,968  5,640
Water charges (RD$) /                   -         64         -        128        -       170         -       340
Net farm income                        358    1,253         705    2,524        984   3,169        1,968  5,300
Off-farm income                         60       124         -        -          -       -           -       -
Total farm income (RD$)                418    1,377         705    2,524        984   3,169        1,968  5,300
of which:
accruing to family labor 2/             -        718          -    1,120         -    1,200          -    1,200
1/ Only operation and maintenance are fully covered under water charges;, the investment cost recovery
is to be determined by the water charges study.
2/ Based on a maximum family labor availability of 600 man/days per year (two adult workers at 25 days/
month each) valued at RD$2. per day.



wjrui LL.JW nxLruflL.L
laugdeN orte   Poect
Farm Budgets
Tobacco Farls (Olor Tobacco)
Farm size                              3.75 ha               7.5 ha                 10 ha
Present   Future      Present  Future        Present Fature
Cropped area (ha)
- tobacco                         3.75    3.75          7.5      7.5            10       10
- other crops                      -       1.5          -        3.8            -         5
Gross value of production (RD$)
- tobacco                         2,789    3,915       5,600    7,830          7,395   10,440
- other crops                       -        586         -       1,167           -      2,820
Total                   2,789    4,501        5,600    8,997          7,395  13,260
Production costs (RD$)             1,338    2,156       2,678    4,319          3,570    6,975
Net value of production
before water charges (RD$)         1,451    2,345       2,922    4,678          3,825    6,285
Water charges (RD$)                  -         64         -         128           -        170
Net farm income (RD$)              1,451    2,281       2,922    4,550          3,825    6,115
Off-farm income (RD$)                173            -          -                  -         -
Total farm income (RD$)           1,278    2,281        2,922    4,550          3,825    6,115
of which:
accruing to family labor 2/         -         375         -        750            -      1,000
1/  It is not expected that farms larger than 10 ha would cultivate olor-tobacco as a main crop
i/   See footnote 1, table 1 of this anmex.                                                                             21-
2/   See footnote 2, table 1 of this annex. Family labor on tobacco farms is not fully employed
because of the heavy concentration of seasonal work.



DOMICAN REF;tBLIC
Ya _ue del Norte Project
Farm Butts
gbrbean - Tomatoes - Vegetable Farms        Corn - Beans - Vegetable Farms
Farm size                        7.5 ha  10 ha  20 ha 50 ha          7.5 ha  10 ha   20 ha   50 ha
Cropped area (ha)
- soybeans                       3.1     4.1    8.2    20.5          1.6    2.1         4.2      10.5
- corn                          0.2      0.3    o.6     1.5          2.6     3.5        7.0      17.5
- tatoes                         2.0     2.7    5.4    13.5           -       -          -        -
- vegetables                     3.0     4.0    8.0    20.0          2.2     2.9        5.8      14.5
- beans                          _      _       _      _             2.2     2.)       5.8      14.5
- other crops   .                2.9     3.9    7.8    19.5          2.7      3.6       7.2      18.0
Gross value of production (RD$) 6,090   8,150  16,240  40,620      3,660   4,890      9,780     24,450
Production costs (RD$)          3,510   4,780   9,760  24,800      1,706   2,280      4,560     11,700
Net value of production (RD$)   2,580   3,370   6,480  15,820      1,954   2,610      5,220     12,750
2/
Wa ter charges (RD$)              128     170     340     850         128     170       340        850
Farm Income                     2,452    3,200  6,140  14,970      1,826   2,440      4,880     11,900
of which:
accruing to family labor  /    1,120    i,200  1,200   1,200       1,040   1,200      1,200      1,200
1/  Farms with these rotations do not exist under present conditions
2/  See footnote 1, table 1 of tlis annex.
2/  See footnote 2, table 1 of this armex.
&1S
CD w1






ANNEX 12
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The following assumptions were made in evaluating the project's
economic rate of return:
(a) Prices. Commodity prices used in the economic calculations
are based on Bank's Economic Department forecasts of
world market prices for the early 1980's. They are lower
than the projected prices used in the financial analysis
for rice, sugar, groundnuts and soybeans.
In the case of rice, groundnuts and soybeans, projected
CIF-Santo Domingo prices were used for the economic
analysis, from which transportation charges, and -- in the
case of rice -- milling costs, were deducted in order to
arrive at the farm-level price. In the case of sugar, a
projected FOB price of US$0.055 per lb for non-quota exports
was used to determine the ex-factory price. Farmgate
prices differ between the financial and economic analysis
as follows:
Farmgate Prices
Financial Analysis Economic Analysis
---------------RD$ per ton-----------
Paddy                                  120                   70
Sugar 1/                               132                  121
Groundnuts                             185                  120
Soybeans                               130                 105
(b) Extension Services. All extension services (RD$0.1 million
per year) have been included as a project cost; during the
first five years they are included under consultant services.
(c) Investment Costs. All investment costs have been included
except RD$2.6 million for land acquisition, which is regarded
as a transfer of ownership and therefore not a cost to the
economy; RD$0.5 million for the purchase of operation and
maintenance equipment, the depreciation of which is included
under operation and maintenance costs; and RD$3.7 million
for price contingencies. As project benefits from construction
of Tavera-Dam would be marginal, no related costs have been
/  Current f.o.b. prices formed the basis for calculating the ex-factory
price for financial purposes.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
included. The cost of over designing the capacity of the
main canal in order to allow for future extensions of the
irrigated area has been estimated at about RD$2 million. These
costs have not been deducted in the economic analysis, as
the timing of such an extension (which is related to construction
of an additional dam) is still uncertain, and the effect on
the rate of return would in any case be less than 1%.
(d)  Labor Costs.  In view of the high unemployment rate in the
region and the considerable underemployment of the agri-
cultural labor force, family labor has not been costed,
while unskilled hired labor has been costed at a subsistence
level equivalent to 75% of the legal minimum wage rate.
(e)  Development Period.  It has been assumed, that it would
take eight years from the start of irrigation to achieve
full project production. The rate at which project lands
were assumed to be provided with a completed irrigation
system and an assured water supply is as follows:
Calendar Year
Area                                  1976      1977     1978
--- ha-
Left bank                            4,500       -        -
Right bank                           5,000   10,000    8,000
Cumulative total                     9,500   19,500   27,500
Annual benefits were assumed to increase over the eight-year
period at the following cumulative rates: 5, 15, 30, 50, 70,
85, 95 and 100%.
2.        Cost and benefit streams, reflecting the above assumptions, are
presented in Table 1 of this Annex. The internal rate of return to the
economy would be 14%.
3.        To measure the impact of changes in the project's parameter, sen-
sitivity tests were carried out with the following results:



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Rate of Return
a)   20% reduction in the area planted with
olor-tobacco                                   12.7%
b)   10% overall increase in investment costs        13.1%
c)   10% reduction in yields                         12.1%
d)   five-year extension of the development
period                                         13.0%
e)   use of minimum legal-wage rates for hired
labor (equivalent to 9% reduction on in-
cremental production value)                    12.9%






DUAINICA i REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL IORTE IRRIGATIOUT PROJECT'
Econimic Analysis
,ivii. ,o-rks,     Operation and                        Net 7ncreTriental
onsult,-nt Services,    .aintenance,                          Value of il         et Benefit
:ez.mical Zontin_encies  3ctension Services   Total Costs        Production           Streai
----------------------------------------RD3 million-----____________________________________
1973                 ,                                        0.6                                 -0.60
174'                2.2                   0.1                 2.3                -                -2.30
1975                7.4                    0.2                7.6                -                -7.60
1976               11.2                   0.3                11.5               0.11             -11.39
1977                9.3                   0.4                 9.7               0.48              -9.22
1978                0.3                   0.5                 0.8               1.25              +0.45
1979                 -                     0.55               0.55              2.41              +1.86
1980                                      0.55                0.55              3.87              +3.32
1981                 -                     0.55               0.55              5.36              +4.81
1982                 -                    0.55                0.55              6.8i              +6.26
1983                 -                     0.55               0.55              7.39              +6.84
1981                 _                     0.55               0.55              7.81              +7.26
1985                 -                    0.55                0.55              7.95              +7.40
2028                                      0.55                0.55              7.95              +7.40
Rate of Return:  14_






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Item of                                                                  CALENDAR YEAR
work                          1973             1974            1975            1976             1977            1978             1979
Engineering and Supervision for
Construction
Headworks and Desilting Works                                     -
Main Canal to Km 3.5                                                                     _
Unit 2 (Gravity)
Main Canal to km 36.5
Distribution System                                                    [
Drainage System
Onfarm Development                               .
Unit 2 (Pumping)
Pumping Plant
Distribution System
Drainage System
Onfarm Development
Unit 3 (Gravity)
Main Cana! to Km 72.8                                                                                                 -
Distribution System                                                                              _ -
Drainage System
Onfarm Development
Land Acquisition and Settlement
Equipment
Buildings
Technical Assistance for
Agricultural Development
World Bank - 7217






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
L 3 CL J                 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                  AGRICULTURAL BANK                      D
-   l  CENTRAL POLICY COMMITTEE
CONSU LTANTS
|  PROJECT COORDINATOR     |      _       Senior Agricultural Advisor
Extension Officer (Agriculture
COMM ITTEE~              Extension Officer (Credit)
Land Reform Specialist
PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEEIrrigation Engineer
IAD   l   MINISTRY OF         AGRICULTURAL                TOBACCO             RICE RESEARCH             INDRHI
IAD            I AGRICULTURE                BANK                  INSTITUTE              INSTITUTE                CDE
RESEARCH                                           RESEARCH                                               
LAND                 CREDIT                 CREDIT                   CREDIT               RSARCH              OPEATIONTEANDE
REFORM        ~~EXTENSION                                      EXTENSION           _______________
LAND REFORM      Extension Officer (Agriculture)    Extension Officer                                               IRRIGATION
SPECIALIST      Extension Officer (Credit)     (Credit)                                                             ENGINEER
World Bank-6892






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
YAQUE DEL NORTE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Existing c-nals
Propose d ma1-in a
Proposed s-.cedary canals
Proposed irrigable area
j   Propo..ed P-mping plant
Moin roads
V  <V \  Rir ad streams
0~1~ / /,
90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ,
Pr,apo_sed(  SlrD of proposedS/o
-25-                 0 O            t/nicOro                                                                                                                                   B.. D.. ond R.,-  xoi, a
'ARK-A 1         20,             0       2~~~~~,ce,A,,R  4  .   a,1
C  -~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~                 Oyr~~~~~~~~~~;0~~~~~~,.  ~ ~    ~       ~     ~      ~      ~     ~                            Anne               lynn                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.p.
£~~~~~~~~~~~~~UI                                                                                                              - CAe .              Tve                               p  ompn
HAt4  t       ~~PUERTO RIO                        o         2                         6tt                                                                                
.    w   1js   wo-  42P.                                                                                                                                                                              M



