RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-33a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCIlON AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
UGANDA
April 13, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



cOMa QmVALTS
Us$ 1.00           Uganda Shillings 7.00
U Sh           -   100 conts - US$ 0.14
W=WS AND MKES*
(Imperial system for length, area and volume)
(Metric system for weights)
1 inch (in)          - 2.54 centimeters
1 foot (ft)           a 0.30 meters
1 mile (ed)          - 1.61 ldlometers
1 square mile (sq mi) - 2.59 kilometers2
1 acre (ac)          a 0.40 hectares
1 kilogra  (kg)          2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)      0 0.98 long tons
*Uganda is in the course of introducing the metric system.
ABMIIEATIO5N
BAT : British-American Tobacco Compamy
P1B : Produce Marketing Board
UCB : Uganda Commercial Bank



UGANDA
SMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUJMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       i
I.     INTRODUCTION   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
II.    BACKGROUND   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        1 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A. Aericultu-re in the Economy of Uganda . . . . . . .  -   1
B.  Growth of Tohacco Cultivation  . . . . . . . . . . .        2
C.  Tobacco Development Policy and Institutions   . . .         2
III.   PROJECT AREAS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
At  Location, Population, Soils and Climate  . . . . . .        3
B.  Farmir.g Patterns and Land Tenure ...  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  5
C.  Production of Flue-Cured Tobacco . . . . . . . . . .        6
IV.    THE PROJECT     .  .................                             /
A.    rDefinition   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
B.  Detailed Features  ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
V.     COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  . . . . . . .    11
A. Project Cost..11
B.  Proposed Financing ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    13
C.  Procurement .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
D.  Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
E.  Accounts and Audit ... .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    16
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
A.  Organization of the Project .  . . . . . . . . . . .    16
B.  Staffing and Training  . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .    19
C.  Marketing Organization . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   19
VII.   YIELDS, OUTPUT, MARKETS, PRICES, OPERATING RESULTS AND
GOVERNMENT REVENUES  ... .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    20
A. Yields and Output  ...  .  .  .  .    .    ......  .  .    .    20
B.  Markets and Prices .       .       .............. .    21
C. Operating Results . . . . . . .                             22
D.  Government Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission to Uganda
in August 1969, composed of Messrs. M. van Gent, C. Walton, P. Grosjean (Bank)
and B. Hartley (Consultant).



-2-
VIII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
IX.    RECOMMENDATIONS       .         . .   . . . . . . . . . .     24
ANNEXES
1.  History and Development of Flue-Cured Tobacco
2. The Cooperative Movement, Agricultural Credit and Banking
Table 1   Summarized Financial Statements of Cooperative Movement
Table 2   Uganda Commercial Bank:  Comparative Balance Sheets
3. Development Programs
4. Project Cost
5. Sources and Application of Funds and Disbursements
6. Terms of Loans
7. Farm Budget for One Acre of Tobacco
8. Unions' Operating Budgets
9. Organization Chart
10. Details of Staff Requirements
11. Responsibilities of the Project Director
12. Tobacco Development Fund - Cash Flow
13. Project Cash Flow
14. Tobacco Yields
15. Price Calculation of Flue-Cured Tobacco
16. Tobacco Marketing Prospects
17. Economic Rate of Return
18. Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
MAP



UGANDA
SM'ALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the further development of
Uganda's tobacco growing industry for which a credit of US$4.0 million
equivalent is proposed. After coffee, cotton and tea, tobacco is Uganda's
most important smallholder cash crop and provides a livelihood for some
20,000 small farmers most of whom grow less than half an acre of the
crop. As a result of the project the number of growers would be increas-
ed by 6,000, annual production would be raised from a current 2.7 million
kg of flue-cured leaf to about 5.3 million kg, and annual exports of to-
bacco would be increased from about 0.7 million kg valued at US$1 million
at present to 3.1 million kg valued at US$3.8 million by 1975. Production
increases would be brought about by both an expansion in the area under
the crop and by improved productivity.
ii.       The project involves strengthening the cooperative movement, to
which all tobacco growers belong, in order to provide a suitable channel
for providing credit to such growers. It would include the provision of
short- and medium-term production credits to tobacco growers, aand medium-
term credits to cooperatives for the establishment of the facilities re-
quired to service their members efficiently. Provision also would be made
for the establishment of additional central tobacco storage facilities, for
the improvement of Government's extension services for tobacco farmers, and
for the preparation of further agricultural projects aimed at a larger
number of farmers and a wider range of agricultural production.
iii.      Project costs are estimated at US$7.3 million equivalent.  The
proposed credit of US$4.0 million would finance 55S of project costs in-
cluding some US$1.4 million local currency financing. The Government
would meet 16% of project costs, and farmers and cooperatives the remaining
29%. Government would on-lend most of the proceeds of the credit to coop-
eratives and the Produce Marketing Board, retaining the balance to finance
other project costs. Where practical project procurement would be by inter-
national competitive bidding, and goods and services obtained in this vay
would have an estimated value of US$1 million.
iv.       The project would be carried out by a unit established for this
purpose within the Ministry of Marketing and Cooperatives. Project poli-
cies would be determined by a project committee, and day to day management
would be in the hands of a Project Director responsible to the Minister
through the Permanent Secretary.
v.        Marketing prospects, which are considered satisfactory, have taken
into account the possible re-entry of Rhodesian tobacco onto the world
market and a reduction of consumption increase in industrialised countries.



- ii -
vi.       The project would make a significant contribution to Uganda's
economy, to its foreign exchange earnings; and would improve its agri-
culture, and the livelihood of many thousand small farmers.  It would
also demonstrate how credit may be made available to other agricultural
activities. The economic rate of return from investment in the project,
based on current estimates of long term tobacco prices would be about
27%. A sensitivity analysis shows that even were prices to fall 20% be-
low these estimates the rate of return would be satisfactory at 16%.
The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$4.0 million.



UGANDA
SMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In March 1968 the Government of Uganda applied to the Association
for a credit to assist in financing a general agricultural credit project.
The project was appraised in October 1968, but was found to be insufficient-
ly prepared. In view of the time needed to prepare a satisfactory general
agricultural credit project the Government, with the assistance of the
Bank's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa (PMEA), proceeded to prepare a
smaller project concerned solely with tobacco production. The new project
proposal was submitted to the Association in May 1969.
1.02      Under the project, credit would be provided to tobacco cooperatives
and rhrough these to tobacco growers. The proposed IDA credit would finance
also the managerial and extension services needed to improve the productivity
of tobacco production in Uganda and to extend the area under the crop and
storage facilities. Tobacco production is expected to about double its pre-
sent level as a consequence of the project.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission, composed
of Messrs. M. van Gent, C. Walton, P. Grosjean and B. Hartley (Consultant),
which visited Uganda in August 1969.
1.04      The Association has made two credits in the Uganda agricultural
sector. In 1967, a credit (109-UG) of US$3.4 million for a smallholder tea
production project was made. Field work under this project is progressing
satisfactorily but decision making by Government is slow and has led to pro-
blems with tea processing. In 1968 the second credit (130-UG) of US$3.0
million was made for beef ranching development. After a slow start, progress
on this project is now ahead of schedule, although some staffing problems re-
main to be resolved.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in the Economy of Uganda
2.01      Uganda is a landlocked country of about 75 thousand square miles
of which more than 80% lies at altitudes of between 3,000 and 5,000 feet.
Its soils and climate are generally favorable for agricultural production.
Population in 1969 was about 9.5 million, and estimated to be increasing at
about 3% annually. About 80% of the population is wholly or partially de-
pendent on agriculture, which contributes about 60% of GDP. GNP per capita
is about US$115. After a rapid increase in the period 1962 to 1964, agri-
cultural exports, valued in 1967 at about US$173 million and equivalent to
80% of total exports, have leveled off. Coffee is the most important ex-
port crop, accounting in 1968 for 55% of all exports, followed by cotton
with 23%. Tobacco exports in 1968 were valued at US$1 million and repre-
sented less than 2% of total exports.



-2
2.02      Both coffee and cotton have received setbacks during the last two
years, partly arising from the 1966 civil disturbances and partly from in-
ternational marketing difficulties. Thus, despite the growing importance
of other crops, such as sugar, tea and tobacco, the agricultural sector's
production increased by only 2-1/2X a year in the period 1966 to 1968, and
this has been the major factor in the slow growth of the country's economv
in recent years. Government is now making efforts to improve the perfor-
mance of the agricultural sector, in particular by increasing efficiency
in the Ministries of Agriculture and of Marketing and Cooperatives.
B. Growth of Tobacco Cultivation
2.03      Although tobacco growing has been carried out on a small scale
since the 1920's, a significant flue-cured tobacco industry was not estab-
lished until the 1940's.  Production of flue-cured tobacco increased sllOTr-
to 0.77 million kg in 1961, and then grew rapidly to over 2.7 million kg l!
1968 when the estimated value of the crop was about USh 20 million (US*...8
million equivalent). The crop (about 7,000 acres were grown in 1968) is
produced by small growers, who each cultivate an average of half an acre.
While a small quantity of fire-cured tobacco is also produced in Uganda,
production has tended to stagnate and now averages about 0.9 million kg a
year. Most fire-cured tobacco is used domestically.
2.04      Flue-cured tobacco production was encouraged initially to meet
the requirements of domestic cigarette manufacture. The British-American
Tobacco Company (BAT), the manufacturer, provided extension and managerial
services to registered growers who contracted to sell their leaf to BAT.
BAT continues this type of operation in the West Nile and Kigezi areas.
However, supplies of flue-cured tobacco now outstrip domestic demand, esti-
mated at about 2 million kg, and the production of tobacco for export is
becoming of greater importance. BAT is not interested in export and with
its supplies for domestic manufacture assured, is expected to withdraw from
field operations within the next year. The responsibility for replacing
the BAT service is being taken up by the Government, whose plans include an
expansion of tobacco production for export. Under the new arrangements BAT
would continue to own and operate its cured leaf handling plants and ciga-
rette factories, and the Government would be responsible for production and
export marketing. More details on Ugandan flue-cured tobacco production
are contained in Annex 1.
C. Tobacco Development Policy and Institutions
2.05      Over the next four years Government plans to extend the area under
flue-cured tobacco by about 4,700 acres, and thus increase production from
2.7 million kg to about 5.3 million kg. The expansion would take place in
the three areas where tobacco growing is already well established, West Nile,



Middle North and Kigezi. Government proposes to replace BAT field supervi-
sion with Government services and to reorganize and strengthen the tobacco
growers' cooperatives to which all producers belong. As the requirements
of local cigarette manufacture are unlikely to expand significantly, in-
creased tobacco production will entail increased exports and thus augment
Uganda's foreign exchange earnings.
2.06      Government policy is to allocate a large measure of responsibility
for the agricultural development program to cooperatives. In recent years,
the cooperative movement has become responsible for providing credit and
other production, processing and marketing facilities for Uganda's major
agricultural projects. Although defaults on cooperative repayments in-
creased markedly in 1966 as a result of the civil disturbances, the causes
were exceptional, and since then Government has strengthened its control of
cooperatives. A result of this has been a considerable improvement in the
financial position of the cooperative movement.
2.07      Credit for cooperative activity is supplied mainly by Government,
through the Department of Cooperative Development of the recently established
Ministry of Marketing and Cooperatives and, to a lesser extent from commer-
cial banks. One of these, the wholly Government owned Uganda Commercial Bank
(UCB) now handles most of government commercial banking business. Despite
its growth, primarily from increases in savings and deposits, UCB has con-
tinued its policy of concentrating on short-term lending rather than medium-
and long-term lending. It acts, however, as Government lending agent in the
administration of various medium and long term loan schemes, and it is Go-
vernment policy that UCB should be similarly employed in lending operations
concerned with the tobacco development program. In due course, its functions
as Government agent in this and other programs may be taken over by a deve-
lopment bank, formation of which the Government is now considering. Annex 2
gives further details on UCB.
2.08      The Produce Marketing Board (PMB), was established in 1967, but at
present is responsible only for the marketing of tobacco (cotton and coffee
are marketed by separate boards), though it is carrying out marketing sur-
veys for other crops. PMB employs an experienced commercial firm, Trans-
Continental Leaf Tobacco Corporation Ltd. (Trans-Continental), a Uganda
registered company, subsidiary of a Liechtenstein based firm, as its agent
for classifying and selling tobacco and uses BAT facilities in Kampala for
the redrying, packing and storage of the crop prior to sale.
III. PROJECT AREAS
A. Location, Pop-lation, Soils and Climate
3.01      The project would be located in three areas: West Nile, Middle
North and Kigezi (see Map). Flue-cured tobacco production is now well es-
tablished in all three areas.



-4 -
3.02      The West Nile project area, comgrises six counties of the West
Nile District in the north-western corner of Uganda. Tobacco is grown over
a region of sbout 1,500 sq mi, which supports a population of about 200,000
persons (133 persons per sq mi). The area has good road communications with
Kampala about 250 miles distant, and a railway extension to the area is
under construction.
3.03      Altitude is between 3,800 and 5,000 feet, and rainfall averages
38 inches. Soils are mainly sandy loams and the combination of climate and
soils is well suited to flue-cured tobacco production. There is no shortage
of land for expanding tobacco production, but the area of natural woodland
which provides fuel for curing the tobacco crop is diminishing. While some
8,000 acres of fuel wood plantations have already been established, thie
acquisition of the relatively large blocks needed for such plantations is
becoming difficult.
3.04      Largely because of its remote location, economic development in
West Nile has progressed slowly. Large numbers of West Nilers work outsfde
the district and, while not contributing directly to local developnment, con-
stitute a substantial source of income for the district through the repa-
triation of earnings. The areas major cash crops are coffee, cotton, and
tobacco. The bulk of Uganda's flue-cured tobacco is grown in West Nih! anc
the crop is the major source of cash income to area farmers.
3.05      The Middle North project area comprises parts of the Lango, Acholi
and Madi districts. It forms part of Uganda's northern plateau, most of
which lies between 3,500 and 4,000 feet in altitude. The area is less
densely populated than West Nile, with about 50 persons per sq mi. It has
good road and rail connections to Kampala, which is about 200 miles from the
center of the area.
3.06      Rainfall pattern is bi-modal, with peaks in April/May and September/
October.  Rainfall is about 40 inches, and the climate and sandy loam soils
make the area suitable for flue-cured tobacco production. Fuel from natural
woodland is readily available, but will diminish with any substantial increase
in tobacco production. Land is available for both tobacco and fuel wood
plantings.
3.07      Compared with the West Nile and Kigezi areas, economic development
in the Middle North is relatively advanced. Cotton growing was introduced
as early as 1910, and its production together, with the sale of a range of
food crops produced in the area, has contributed significantly to the caslh
income of farmers. Cotton has suffered considerable price fluctuations in
recent years, however, and for this reason flue-cured tobacco production is
gaining in popularity as a rsubstitute.
3.08      The Kigezi project area is situated in the Kigezi District in the
south-western corner of Uganda. For the most part the area comprises broken
mountainous country. Tobacco is grown on slopes at between 3,000 and 4,000



ft altitude. Population of the district is about 495,000, and its density
about 335 persons per sq mi in the mountain areas, and 170 persons per sq
mi on the lower slopes. Communications with Kampala are by road, part earth
and part hard surfaced, totaling some 270 miles.
3.09      Rainfall is bi-modal, with peaks in April and in November.  Annual
rainfall varies considerably over even short distances, but is between 35
and 45 inches in areas where tobacco is grown on sandy loams. Due to alti-
tude, rainfall and soil considerations, the area in Kigezi suitable for pro-
fitable tobacco production is estimated to be only about 2,000 acres. Fuel
from natural woodland is available only in limited quantities, and it has
been necessary to establish fuel wood plantations to supply the needs of to-
bacco growers. Land is available for the limited tobacco and necessary fuel
wood planting programs proposed for the area under the project.
3.10      Economic development has been very restricted in this remote and
relatively inaccessible area. Casb crops play a relatively unimportant role
in the economy, and while attempts have been made to establish crops such as
flax, coffee and vegetables, none has developed to a significant scale. Con-
sequently, seasonal migration from the area has become customary. While con-
ditions for large scale tobacco growing are less favorable in Kigezi than in
the other areas, Government proposes to encourage development of the crop on
a small scale as it offers better economic opportunities and returns to farm-
ers than other crops,
B. Farming Patterns and Land Tenure
3.11      Farms in the project areas average about 11 acres of cultivated
land, but range from less than I acre in Kigezi, to over 16 acres in Middle
North. Millet, sorghum, maize, plantains, cassava, groundnuts and sweet
potatoes are important food crops in all areas. Subsistence requirements,
based on current average yields of food crops, vary from 0.4 to 0.7 acres
per person. The use of improved varieties, fertilizer, and pesticides in
either food or cash crop production is insignificant. The Government pro-
vides subsidized tractor and farm machinery hire services in the areas but
only 10% of farmers use them. The remainder cultivate their farms by hand.
As the project progresses it is expected that more and more tobacco growers
will make use of the tractor hire service but successful carrying out of
the project would not be dependent upou a greater use of these services.
For the purpose of project calculations it is assumed that all farmers
would use machinery hire services.
3.12      Land in the project areas is held by occupants under a traditional
system of usufruct. Government, by Act of Parliament, has vested the author-
ity over land in the Land Commission, and currently any person can acquire
leasehold title for 49 years by written application to the Commission. Up
to now, however, very few leasehold titles have been acquired under the Act,



since security of tenure is effective under the traditional system. Conse-
quently loans may be made to farmers without risk of their losing control
of their land.
C. Production of Flue-Cured Tobacco
3.13      Basic tobacco production statistics for the three project areas
are given in the following table:
Flue-Cured Tobacco Statistics (1969)
West Nile       Middle North       Kigezi
Registered growers                  12,400            3,000             968
Acres                                3,600             2,978            484
Acres per grower                     0.29             0.99              0.50
Cooperative societies                  20                29               4
Size of barns (ft)                  12 x 12          12 x 12           16 x 16
1 /
4-and 6-tiers-       6-tiers          6-tiers
Number of barns                      3,100            2,978Z/           121
Average Yield (kg/ac, 1968)            590               191            199
Use of fertilizer (kg/ac)              136                70           n.a.
1/   Tier: a level of horizontal poles from which tobacco leaves are hung
during curing.
2/   Of which 1,307 are temporary barns.
3.14      Farmers in all three areas are organized in cooperative societies.
These societies provide inputs, handle and market the tobacco and grow fuel
wood. Each society has a leaf-handling shed, which also serves as its to-
bacco buying center. Societies in each of the three areas are organized
into an apex area Cooperative Union. The Union acts largely as an agent for
purchasing and distributing production inputs.
3.15      Tobacco is grown in a four to six year rotation, alternating with
maize, cotton, beans and fallow, and this practice would continue. Tobacco
seed is produced by BAT, and growers raise their seedlings in cooperative
L.eedbeds. In West Nile and Middle North, sowing takes place in January and
transplanting begins, with the early rains, at the end of February. In
Kigezi, the season begins about three months later. The crop starts to
mature 75 days after transplanting, and is harvested and cured in May
through August in West Nile and Middle North, and in October through De-
cember in Kigezi. Seedbed practices include soil fumigation, fertilize,t
and pesticide applications, but these are satisfactory only in West Nile.
In West Nile 136 kg/ac of compound fertilizer is used after transplanting,
and the same technique is recommended for use in the other areas.  No pest



control measures have yet proved necessary in the field. Growers cure their
crop either in individually or communally owned barns. Barn sharing is less
common in Middle North where growers cultivate about one acre of tobacco
each and use barns capable of curing the production from such an area.
3.16      Poor seedbed maintenance and untimely planting currently results
in poor yields in Middle North and Kigezi, due principally to the carry-over
of disease and nematode infestation into the field from the seedbeds. Hus-
bandry operations in these t:wo areas are often poor, as is curing, which is
frequently held up because of failure to collect fuel wood on time. Addi-
tional constraints are the existence of a large number of poorly constructed
temporary barns in Middle North and inadequate leaf handling and baling
arrangements. Because of these limitations, yields in Middle North and
Kigezi in 1968 averaged under 200 kg/ac. In West Nile, however, under good
BAT management and supervision the average yield in 1968 was 590 kg/ac.
This is a good yield bv any African standards, and demonstrates the ability
of the Uganda farmer, when properly supported, to achieve a satisfactory
Level of technical efficiency.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
4.01      The project would add, over a four-year investment period, about
4,700 acres to Uganda's existing tobacco acreage, and would involve approxi-
mately 6,000 farmers organized in cooperative societies. The project con-
sists of:
(a)  the provision of credits to tobacco growers for the
construction and improvement of tobacco barns;
(b) the establishment of a revolving fund to provide new
growers with seasonal production inputs;
(c) the provision of credits to cooperatives for the con-
struction of baling centers, office and storage facil-
ities, and the establishment of fuel wood plantations;
(d) the establishment of a project administration, to-
gether with the basic development of cooperative
union and society management staff, and of Govern-
ment extension services to tobacco growers;
(e) the construction of additional tobacco storage
facilities at Kampala; and
(f) the provision of technical assistance for the
preparation of further agricultural projects.



-8-
B.  Detailed Features
4.02      The project would mainly provide for the introduction of tobacco
on settled but presently under-utilized farms, and partly for the extension
of tobacco growing by farmers who already cultivate and cure the crop. Se-
lection of new farmers would be based on their past performance with other
crops and on willingness to join their local cooperatives. Throughout the
areas, there is increasing collective experience of tobacco which would be
strengthened through improved extension services and a farmer training pro-
gram to be introduced.  Beyond this, the project would cater to the differ-
ing tobacco production characteristics of the three project areas. In West
Nile, where yields are already high, priority would be given to enlarging
existing barns to improve curing efficiency, and to providing a satisfacto-
ry replacement for BAT services. Additionally, a limited number of new
barns, and new fuel wood plantations would be established. In Middle North
and Kigezi, main objectives are both expansion of tobacco acreage and t;
creased productivity.  Achieving these objectives requires the cons.r!.'
of new barns and tobacco handling facilities, and the establishment of ade-
quate supervisory and advisory services and satisfactory arrangements for
the provision of production inputs to farmers. Land suitable for tobacco
is scarce and scattered in Kigezi, consequently a soil survey to locate sa-
tisfactory sites would precede expansion of the tobacco acreage. Govern-
ment has given an assurance that no planting would take place on any land
in Kigezi before a soil survey had shown that such land was suitable for
tobacco.
4.03      Tobacco acreage under the project is scheduled to increase as
follows:
cumulative Expansion in Tobacco Production
Total Increase
Existin&   Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  under Project
… -     -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  - -Acres  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  _
West Nile        3,630     4,000    4,400    5,000    5,000          1,370
Middle North    2,978      3,360    4,057    4,811    6,000          3,022
Kigezi             484       550       625       725      800          316
Total      7,092      7,910   _9082   10,536   11,800          4,708
Tobacco Barns
4.04      In West Nile, about 1,600 12x12 ft 4-tier barns would be modified
to accommodate six tiers. A 6-tier barn, while consuming little more
fuel wood than a 4-tier barn, can cure the production from about 1-112 acres
of tobacco against 1 acre in the case of a 4-tier barn. In addition to barn
extensions, 233 new barns, all 6-tier, would be constructed. In West Nile
each barn is normally owned by a group of four growers.



- 9 -
4.05      In Middle North, a total of 4,329 12x12 ft 4-tier barns would
be constructed in the project period. Of these, 3,022 would be built for
new tobacco growers, and about 1,307 would be built to replace existing
temporary barns. Although the construction of 6-tier barns would be more
economical in terms of fuel usage, the decision to build the smaller barns
is dictated by the tradition in this area of each grower owning and operating
his own barn. An additional consideration is that the smaller barn with its
limited capacity will help to prevent growers from cultivating larger acre-
ages than they can efficiently manage. At present one acre of tobacco is
about the maximum that the average project area grower can handle. Since
fuel wood is not in short supply in the Middle North, fuel efficiency is
not such a critical factor.
4.06      In Kigezi, 149 16x16 ft 6-tier barns would be built.  Each barn
would be shared by a group of about eight growers, as is traditional, and
would be adequate to cure the production from about 3 acres assuming a maxi-
mum yield of 450 kg of cured leaf per acre.
Seasonal Production Credits
4.07      The IDA credit would provide short term (ten months) production
credits for the first year for all new tobacco growers up to an amount of
USh 600 (US$84) per acre of tobacco. This credit would cover between 80
and 90% of production costs, exclusive of the farmer's own labor, and is
the same amount that is now being provided to existing farmers by commer-
cial banks (see para 5.07). Hitherto, it has been the practice in Uganda
for farmers to expect loans for crop inputs each year. Under the project
a revolving fund would be maintained, from which farmers could obtain
seasonal loans of up to Sh 600 per acre tobacco for five years only, the
amount being reduced to Sh 300 in the sixth year and Sh 150 in the sev-
enth. Credits would be made to growers in the form of either materials
or services; no cash credits are envisaged. Thereafter it is anticipated
that the farmers savings would be adequate to cover production cost. The
basic mechanism for providing credits would follow present practice. Un-
der this UCB is authorized by the Cooperative Department (under the pro-
ject such authority would be vested in the project director) to make
loans to societies, which then extend loans to farmers at an annual in-
terest rate of 12%. Crop payments to the farmers are made by the socie-
ties after deducting loan repayments.
Baling Centers, Cooperative Offices and Supply Depots
4.08      Baling centers, comprising simple leaf-handling and storage facil-
ities would be needed by all 33 cooperative societies in Middle North and
Kigezi, and by five societies in West Nile. Each baling center would be
equipped to bale up to 250,000 kg of cured leaf, about 3,000 bales, and be
able to store up to 400 bales. The baling centers would serve also as buy-
ing centers for growers' leaf.
4.09      In Middle North and Kigezi, seven cooperative union supply depots
would be built to serve as distribution points for barn materials and farm



- 10 -
inputs. Such facilities would not be necessary in West Nile. Each depot
would consist of a store and a small office, and would be constructed near
the offices that would be provided for project field staff.
Fuel Wood Plantations
4.10      A total of about 8,000 acres of eucalypt plantations would be
established over the four-year project investment period by the Cooperative
Unions. This would be additional to about 10,000 acres already planted to
service tobacco production and which in part, together with large areas of
natural timber, would provide fuel for curing tobacco to be planted under
the project until the new plantations had reached maturity. The Unions
would obtain a leasehold title to the land needed for these plantations.
These plantations would produce about 60% of the total fuel wood require-
ments of tobacco growers in West Nile and Kigezi, and about 40% of those
of growers in Middle North, the balance coming from natural timber.  PlanL-
ing of eucalypt would continue after the project investment period if thfs
should prove necessary.  Although eucalypt is a recognized fuel in !-.s
Africa, planting requirements can be established accurately only after
experience provides more detailed and reliable data on the fuel requirements,
and on the production characteristics of eucalypts. For project estimat- i t
fuel requirement of 45 cu yd per acre of tobacco, and a yield of 75 ct, v,  -
wood per acre after each phase of a five-year growing cycle are assumed.
On this basis 3 acres of eucalypt plantation would be required for each acre
of tobacco maintained in production. During negotiations, Government agreed
that the Ministry of Agriculture would begin a research program to dletermine
the most economical heating system for flue-curing barns, including tests of
improved furnaces and gas and oil heating, and, that within 3 years of credfit
signature, the government, on the basis of such research, would prepare firm
plans for meeting future fuel requirements and would implement such plans
after consultation with IDA.
Central Tobacco Storage
4.11      BAT-owned tobacco storage and processing facilities in Kampala
are just adequate for Uganda's present crop. While processing capacity is
sufficient to deal with the additional production generated by the project,
storage capacity would be inadequate. In order to handle and store the
additional production, two stores with a floor storage space of 40,000 sq
ft each would be built under the project. The new storage would be used
for leaf receiving and classifying (10,000 sq ft), wet leaf storage (60,000
sq ft) and redried leaf storage and dispatch area (10,000 sq ft). This
storage together with that owned by BAT would be sufficient to handle a
crop of approximately 5.5 million kg per year. Storage equipment, such as
scales, fork-lift trucks and conveyors, would also be provided undler the
project. Detailed designs, equipment inventories, and subsequent tender
documents would be prepared by PMB in consultation with the project director
for submission to the Association for approval.



- 11 -
Project Administration and Extension Staff
4.12      Only in West Nile has tobacco production reached satisfactorily
high yield levels and quality standards. This has been achieved through
the intensive supervision and advisory services provided by BAT. Since BAT
is withdrawing from the area, its services must be replaced. In Middle
North and Kigezi, the lakgely Government-provided services are inadequate
and are reflected by poor yields (see para 3.16). Consequently a completely
new organization is required in these areas. The success of the project
would also depend upon Uganda's tobacco development program being coordinated
centrally. Thus, a central tobacco project administration would be estab-
lished. The proposed credit would finance the investment costs of such re-
organization including offices, housing and transportation and in addition
operating costs during the four-year project development period. The project
would also provide for training both technical staff and tobacco farmers at
existing Ministry of Agriculture Farm Institutes.
Technical Assistance
4.13      Over the past five years Uganda, helped by IDA (PMEA) and FAO,
has been attempting to identify and prepare agricultural projects suitable
for external financial assistance. Success has been limited, however, and
with the possible exception of additional livestock projects, there are no
new projects which are being prepared. The chances of the Government itself
preparing further suitable projects is slight due to a lack of expertise, and
the agricultural problems of the country are such that the normal type of
short duration IDA and FAO project preparation missions are unlikely to be
of significant help. For these reasons an amount of US$ 70,000 would be
included under the proposed credit, and would be used to obtain technical
assistance in project preparation. It is proposed that Government, with
the assistance of IDA would agree and prepare a list of projects which could
be prepared within a reasonably short period of time. Consultants acceptable
to IDA would then be employed, under a contract and terms of reference satis-
factory to IDA, to further investigate these project possibilities, identify
the most promising, and prepare these in a form suitable for submission to
external financing agencies including the Bank Group. It is anticipated
that a list of project possibilities could be developed within four months
after signature of the credit, and at least one project prepared within
eight months from employment of the consultants. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from the Government that the procedures described
above will be followed.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project cost estimates and their foreign exchange component are
shown in the following table, and are elaborated in Annex 4:



- 12 -
Summary Table of Prolect Cost         %
U Sh (millions      -US ;millions)    Foreign
Item                             Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
On-farm Investments
Tobacco barns                      13.8   4.8  18.6   1.97   0.69   2.66   26
First year inputs (fertilizersJ
tractor cultivation)              1.0   1.8    2.8   0.14   0.26   0.ho   64
Sub-total                ITT   5T   21.7   2.11   0.95   3.06   71
Cooperative Investments
Society (baling centers,
houses)                           1.5   1.2    2.7   0.21   0.17   0.38   44
Union (stores, houses,
vehicles)                         1.4   0.7    2.1   0.20   0.10   0.30   33
Fuel wood plantations               2.5   0.3    2.8   0.36   0.04   0.Lo   11
Sub-total                 f71   2.2    77    0.77   0.31   1.08   99
Cooperative Management 1/
Society (salaries, operation,
maintenance)                      1.5   0.3    1.8   0.22   0.04   O. 6   1I
Union (salaries, operation,
maintenance)                      1.5   1.5    3.0   0.21   0.21   0.42   ,0
Sub-total                 3.0   I75    17   _078 3   0.27    77T    77
Project Administration Investment
Offices and houses                  1.1   0.7    1.8   0.16   0.10   0.26   39
Vehicles                            0.1   0.5    o.6   o.ol   0.07   0.08   3_¼
Sub-total                 1.2   1.2   72.   0.17   0.17   0.34 U?
Project Management
HQ costs                            1.3   0.8    2.1   0.19   0.11   0.30   38
Field staff costs                   3.4   1.2    4.6   0.49   0.17   0.66   26
Training'(staff and farmers)        0.8   0.2    1.0   0.11   0.03   0.14  2'0
Sub-total                        7 2.  7.7   0.79   0.31   1.10   29
Tobacco Storage (PMB)
>-ntral stores                      0.9   2.7    3.6   0.13   0.38   0.5l   75
Storage equipment                    -    0.4    0.4    -      0.06   J.06   90
Sub-total                T0.   :T31   5 0.3   0.44   0.57   77
Technical Assistance                  0.1   0.4    0.5   0.01   0.06   0.07   80
Contingencies 2/                      1.5   1.0    2.5   0.22   0.14   0.36   39
TOAL                    32.4  18.5   50.9   4.63   2.63   7.26   36
1/  Salary and staff costs inurmred in establisshing the nroject.
2/  10% GM *11 it f^ escePi 0t0arM  ±an9tamt  and technical assiatance.



- 13 -
5.02      Cost estimates are based on BAT's experience in tobacco growing
in Uganda and elsewhere. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
36% of total project costs.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$4.0 million (USh 28 mil-
lion) would be made to the Government, and the project financed as follows:
USh Million    US$ Million        %
IDA Credit                      28.0            4.00          55
Government of Uganda             8.2             1.17         16
Farmers and Cooperatives        14.7             2.10         29
TOTAL                50.9             7.27         100
5.04      The proposed IDA credit of US$4.0 million would cover foreign ex-
change component amounting to US$2.6 million, and local currency costs to-
talling USh 9.8 million (US$1.4 million equivalent). The Government contri-
bution of US$1.17 million equivalent would be made from budgetary sources.
Farmers' contributions would be largely in the form of the labor and
materials supplied by them for barn construction. The contribution of
the cooperatives would be from self-generated funds. Annex 8 shows that
the financial situation of the cooperatives would allow this contribution.
5.05      The proposed IDA credit would be made on standard terms to the
Government of Uganda. Government would apply proceeds of the credit to-
gether with its own contribution as detailed in Annex 5 and summarized
as follows:
(a) on-lend to cooperative unions for
i.  cooperative investments in an amount of USh 8.3
million (US$1.18 million) at 8X interest recover-
able over 14 years;
ii.  on-lending to farmers for tobacco barns, in an
amount of USh 8.1 million (US$1.16 million) at
8% interest repayable over 7 years and for
seasonal production loans in an amount of USh
2.8 million (US$0.40 million) at 12X interest,
repayable after 10 months.



- 14 -
(b) to the Ministry of Marketing and Cooperatives for
investments required for the project administration,
and for the costs of expatriate management and
consultants for further proJect preparation, in
an amount of USh 4.9 Mill4on (US$0.70 million);
(c) on-lend to PMB for investment in tobacco stores and
equipment, in an amount of USh 4.4 million (US$0.63)
at 8Z interest repayable over 19 years; and
(d)  to payment of salaries and operating cost of project
management in an amount of USh 7.7 million (US$1.10
million).
Expenditures under (a) i above would supplement existing assets and facili-
ties, some of which are currently owned by BAT. The purchase of such facil
ities by the unions concerned would be a condition of credit effecti!"'l:ss.
5.06      All cooperative on-lending would be througlh UCB which, as Govern-
ment disbursement agent would receive a 2% service charge on loans channelled
through it.  Cooperatives would receive a 2% margin on farmers' barn loans,
and a 6% margin on farmers' seasonal crop loans. Government's margin would
be approximately 4.75% on on-lending of the proceeds of the IDA credit.
Further details of loan terms are given in Annex 6. Conditions of effective-
ness of the credit would be that the Government would have entered into agree-
ments with the three cooperative unions and with PMB, all acceptable to IDA,
defining the conditions under which the Government would make funds available
to those organizations. UCB acceptance to act as Government disbursement
agent on terms acceptable to IDA would be a further condition of effective-
ness. Assurance has also been obtained that the Government would make avail-
able all funds needed for the project in advance and in block account form on
the basis of quarterly estimates prepared by the project director and approved
by the project committee.
5.07      Seasonal production credits for tobacco growers, and loans for
cooperative development are provided currently by private commercial banks
and by UCB, and these banks have given an assurance that they would con-
tinue their present level of lending, of about USh 4.5 million annually.
It would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit that the Government
produces evidence of the intention of the commercial banks to provide .rop
loans to existing tobacco growers.
5.08      While the commercial banks are prepared to continue to provide
short-term credit for all existing tobacco acreage, there is an t -willing-
ness on the part of both Government and the banks that the Latter  hould
increase their participation (which is secured on the cooperatives assets)
to cover the provision of credit under the project. For this reason, and
because it would not be possible to channel IDA funds through private
banks, the arrangements for seasonal credits under the project would be as
described above and in para 4.07.



- 15 -
C. Procurement
5.09      Tobacco storage equipment, project administration vehicles, and
bulk purchased construction materials, fertilizers and insecticides, valued
at about US$1.05 million would be procured through international competitive
bidding.  Tenders for the construction of stores and houses valued at about
US$1.6 million, would be let locally, since the size of individual contracts
would be inadequate to attract international bids. Local contractors with
experience in the .ype of construction required are available in sufficient
numbers to ensure an adequate degree of competition. Government procedures
for local procurement are acceptable to the Association. With the exception
of bulk purchased construction materials, fertilizer and insecticides, other
inputs needed for tobacco barns and fuel wood plantations, valued at about
US$1.4 million, would be procured locally since bulk procurement of these
items would be administratively cumbersome. In hiring expatriate staff and
consultants at a cost of about US$0.33 million, standard IDA procedures
would be followed. Preference to domestic manufacturers is not applicable,
since almost none of the items to be procured internationally is manufactured
locally.
D. Disbursement
5.10      Disbursement of the proposed credit would be made against:
(a) 100% of the cif cost of items directly imported for
the project or procured through international com-
petitive bidding, about US$1.05 million;
(b) 1002 of the foreign exchange cost of expatriate
staff and consultant services, about US$0.33 mil-
lion; and
(c) a percentage, estimated to be 70% of the loans made
for on-farm and cooperative investments, and of ex-
penditures on project administration offices,
houses, vehicles and equipment procured locally,
less item (a) and (b) above; this is estimated to
amount to about US$2.62 million.
Should an unspent balance of the IDA credit remain when development envis-
aged under the project is completed, it is recommended that it should be
cancelled unless the government proposes an extension of the project for
further acreage in the same areas satisfactory to IDA. A breakdown of
disbursement items is given in Annex 5. An estimated disbursement sched-
ule is given below and detailed in Annex 18.
1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74
-million-----
Amount disbursed (IJSh)           8.8         7.6        5.3         6.4
(US$)          1.3         1.1         0.7        0.9
Undrawn balance  (USh)           19.3       11.7         6.4          _
(US$)          2.7         1.6         0.9



- 16 -
E. Accounts and Audit
5.11      The project administration, the Tobacco Capital Account (see para
6.07), PMB and each of the Unions would keep accounts for the project.  All
project accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor accept-
able to IDA. The sorvices of independent auditors ave commonly tised in
Uganda.  Audited annual reports would be submitted to IDA within 4 months
of the closing of the financial year.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGE1MNT
A. Organizti           t oect
6.01      The proposed project organization re'lects the Uganda Government's
policy of not establishing additional para-statal bodies for the development
of individual crops when existing institutions, 9n particular the cooperative
movement, can be employed if suitably strengthened. It reflects also the
absence of a development bank with the capacity to carry out an agricultural
credit program involving large numbers of small. farmers all requiring a high
degree of technical supervision. While the creation of such a bank may be
desirable, the proposed project alone is too small to justify its creation
at this time.
6.02      The project organization wouId coimprise five elements:
(a) a project unit within the Ministry of Marketing and
Cooperatives headed by a project director, and a
project committee responsible for determining proj-
ect policies and for coordinating project activities;
(b) three cooperative unions, one ±n each project area
(serving 53 primary cooperative societies), respon-
sible for carrying out the project in their respec-
tive areas;
(c) UCB, acting as a Government disbursement agent for
loans to the three unions;
(d)  PMB, responsible for establishing additional tobacco
storage and for tobacco marketing; and
(e) extension service personnel of the Departments of
Agriculture, Forestry, and Cooperative Development,
responsible for providing technical assistance and
advice to tobacco growers, who would be members of
the project unit and who would work under direction
of the project director and union managers.



- 17 -
Project Committee and Project Director
6.03      Responsibility for the overall direction of the project and the
coordination of project entities would rest with the project committee which
Government would establish by ministerial executive order. This committee
which would meet regularly, but at least once a quarter, would be made up of
senior representatives of the Departments of Agriculture, Forestry and Coop-
erative Development, PMB, UCB, and three tobacco growers representing each
union, with the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Marketing and Cooper-
atives as Chairman. The project director who would act as the executive
secretary of the conmittee would also be a member; and a representative of
the Ministry of Finance would attend the committee's meetings as required.
The project committee would be specifically responsible for approving
quarterly estimates and would make recommendations to the Minister of Mar-
keting and Cooperatives regarding the administration of the Tobacco Capital
Account. In addition each member of the committee would be responsible for
ensuring that the services and supplies required by the entity represented
would be provided as required. The project director would be responsible
to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Marketing and Cooperatives
for the overall execution of the project and would be assisted by a small
staff, including a deputy director and an accountant (Annex 9). All staff
would be. employees of the Ministry of Marketing and Cooperatives and proj-
ect headquarters would be located at the Ministry's offices in Kampala.
The project director would have the authority delegated to him by the Com-
missioner for Cooperatives, for appraising the issue of loans by UCB to
the three unions. Both the committee and project director would work to
a plan of operations setting out the respective responsibilities of the pro-
ject director and his staff in relation to the cooperatives and other in-
volved organizations and the physical and financial programs. Such a plan
of operations would be submitted for IDA approval as a condition of credit
effectiveness and subsequently implemented. Assurances on the above matters
were agreed during negotiations, and the establishment of the project commit-
tee would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Cooperative Unions
6.04      Responsibility for day-to-day execution of the project would rest
with the cooperative tobacco unions, and their associated primary societies
(20 in West Nile, 29 in Middle North and 4 in Kigezi). Each primary society
would be made up of growers cultivating a total of about 200 acres of tobacco.
6.05      The generally poor management of cooperatives in recent years has
led Government to exert a much stronger measure of direct control. Thus,
under the Cooperative Societies Act (1964), Government has the power to
supervise and control the operations of any cooperative union or society.
This legislation would be invoked in carrying out the project, under which
qualified managers would be appointed to the three unions by the Department
of Cooperative Development, and similar Department-approved appointments
would be made to the societies. Until each primary society's tobacco acre-
age reached 100 acres, its affairs would be run directly by its apex union.



- 18 -
6.06      In order to permit the most economic use of assets and management,
the whole of the operating charge (para 7.11) would be retained by the
unions which, in addition to meeting their own project expenses, would meet
the union-approved expenses of each of the societies. This arrangement
would insure that all growers in each area would pay similar development and
management charges, and that currently financially weak societies as well as
new societies, would be supported by those that are more developed and fi-
nancially stronger. While appearing inequitable, the currently better socie-
ties would benefit from a generally more efficient tobacco industry which
could be brought about only by the project. Adoption of a system in which
each society had its different financial arrangements would create an insur-
mountable administrative problem. An assurance on this arrangement was ob-
tained during negotiations and also that while the system would be reviewed
from time to time, no change would take place without IDA's prior approval.
6.07      Each union would have different capital requirements related to
tobacco acreage depending both on its physical requirements, in terms of
facilities, and on its capital indebtedness. Thus, if each union we-c
required to service its own capital indebtedness the result would be ui.auly
high capital charges for the Middle North and Kigezi unions which up to now
have been less efficient than West Nile, and thus lower and discouraging
prices to growers. To help overcome this unevenness, and also to help
provide some continuing financial entity through which reserves could be
built up and provision made for future tobacco development, a Tobacco Capital
Account would be established. Under this arrangement the three tobacco coop-
erative unions would collect out of tobacco sale proceeds a cess olT USn 0.40
per kg of tobacco marketed.  Such collection would be paid into the Tobacco
Capital Account. The Account would first service all loans made to coopera-
tives under the project for buildings and fuel wood plantations and secondlv,
would be available to finance rebuilding and re-equipping of project or pre-
project barns and other facilities as approved by the project director. Any
surpluses would be used to finance further tobacco development or cesses
could be reduced. The Account would be administered by the Minister of Mar-
keting and Cooperatives on the recommendations of the project committee. As-
surances to the above effect were obtained during negotiations, and addition-
ally, that the Account would not be wound-up without IDA's prior approval.
UCB and PMB
6.08      Changes in the organization of UCB and PMB are not envisaged under
the project.
i:xtension Service
6.09      Extension service staff of the Departments of Agriculture, Forestry
and Cooperative Development would be allocated to the project in accordance
with the schedules set out in Annexes 9 and 10. Some 171 agricultural, IS
forestry, and 11 cooperative staff would be involved and these would be of
the middle and lower technical grades of the Government service. Such staff
would be employed full time on the project and would work directly under the



- 19 -
appropriate union manager. They would receive, however, technical guidance
from senior staff of their relevant departments. The Department of Agri-
culture therefore would employ a chief technical officer (Tobacco) and
three senior technical officers (Tobacco) acting as advisors to the pro-
ject director and union managers respectively. The chief technical of-
ficer would be responsible for planning and carrying out a tobacco research
program (presently there is almost none) and for establishing and maintain-
ing contacts with tobacco developments in other countries. The research
program would be largely concerned with the testing of techniques proven
in other countries. The senior technical officers would be responsible for
carrying out staff and farmer training, for field trials in their areas and
for tobacco seed production. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that Government would provide adequate financial and material support for
the research, training and seed production programs.
B. Staffing and Training
6.10      Persons with good managerial ability, as well as a knowledge of
tobacco growing and cooperative organization, are required to fill the
posts of project director and managers of the West Nile, Middle North and
Kigezi unions. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the di-
rector and managers, their terms of reference and conditions of employment,
would be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA. The appointment of a
Project Director acceptable to the Association would be a condition of ef-
fectiveness.
6.11      A nucleus of qualified and experienced tobacco extension officers
already exists in both Government Service and BAT field staff. Suitable ar-
rangements are being negotiated by Government for its takeover of satisfac-
tory BAT personnel, and other appointments would be made from the Government
Service. No difficulty is anticipated in recruiting qualified personnel for
lower level project posts, and during negotiations assurance were obtained
from Government that project posts would be filled in accordance with the
schedule at Annex 10.
6.12      Training in tobacco cultivation would be required for most project
field staff. This would be provided at Department of Agriculture Farm In-
stitutes which are located in each of the three areas. It is planned that
in addition to staff training, which would be given initial priority, each
tobacco farnmer would attend a minimum of a one-week Farm Institute training
course in tobacco cultivation, curing and handling.
C. MarkSetin Organization
6.13      After consultation with PMB, the Government each year fixes the pro-
ducer prices for the various grades of tobacco according to expected world



- 20 -
market prices. Any difference between the estimated and actual prices
accrue to PMB but since PMB's establishment in 1968, no marked difference
has occured. PMB which has a monopoly of tobacco leaf purchase under the
provisions of the Tobacco Act (1966) and the PMB Act (1968), licenses each
registered tobacco cooperative as a buying agent. Cooperatives' societies
collect tobacco leaf from their members on the basis of the Government fixed
price after allowing for appropriate deductions. Following an initial grad-
ing of tobacco by the cooperatives at their baling centers, the baled tobicco
is transported by Trans-Continental to Kampala and classified. Trans-Conti-
nental is employed by PMB on an annual contract to classify the whole UXjanda
crop, and subsequently market the exportable surplus. Trans-Continental
receives a fee of USh 0.15/kg for grading plus 4% of the value of export
sales it handles.
6.14      After classification by Trans-Continental, PMB sells the tobacco
required for local manufacture direct to BAT. Prices for those local salts
discussed annually between PMB and BAT are based on the international mar-
ket price and include a yearly variable component, evaluated at USh l.` fkv,
in project estimates, which is effectively the value of the import La-. A,
would pay were the tobacco to be imported. To date this revenue accrued
to PMB. The remainder of the crop is then processed and redried by BAT
at its facilities in Kampala, and transported by rail to Mombasa for expo L.
BAT charges a commercial fee of USh 0.88/kg for the processing. Fven aftor
completion of the project, tobacco production in Uganda would not justify
the establishment of an auction floor in Kampala, since the crop would be
too small to attract sufficient overseas buyers. Thus the present arrange-
ments of export marketing, under an agency agreement, would be continued,
and assurances were obtained during negotiations that any change in the
existing arrangements for tobacco exports and the terms thereof would be
made with the approval of IDA. An assurance was also obtained that PMB
would maintain separate and indentifiable accounts pertaining to its to-
bacco operations.
VII.  YIELDS, OUTPUT, MARKETS, PRICES, PERATING RESULTS AND
GOVERNMENT REVENUES
A. Yields and Outnut
7.01      It has been assumed in project calculations that average yields of
230 kg/ac would be obtained from project year 1 in the Middle North and
h: 'ezi, and that these would increase progressively, reaching 450   /.,c In
project year 5, and that in West Nile yields of 450 kg/ac would be u,)tained
and sustained from project year 1 onwards.  While tl  assumed av,  get project
yield is less than that currently obtained in West Nile it is considered a
realistic estimate in view of the new tobacco growers who would be estab-
lished under the project.



- 21 -
7.02      At maturity of the project, it is estimated that Uganda would
produce 5.3 million kg of flue-cured tobacco annually from an area of about
11,800 acre. Of this total annual production, that part accruing from the
project would amount to about 2.9 million kg.
B. Markets and Prices
7.03      World production, consumption and trade in tobacco have increased
steadily during the last decade and favorable prices have encouraged both
area expansion and yield improvement. A major factor resulting in high
prices was the 1965 embargo on Rhodesian tobacco. While Rhodesia may again
become a large exporter, its production and exports are not likely to rise
to previous levels, due to the loss of significant numbers of growers to
other farming activities and the emergence of competitive producers such as
Uganda's smallholder tobacco growers. Further, it is unlikely that manu-
facturers will wish to return to arrangements which committed them to making
the bulk of their purchases from a single producer.
7.04      Increasing concern, particularly in the developed countries, over
the possible hazards of tobacco smoking to health may reduce the consumption
of tobacco, or at least slow down its expansion as has been the case in the
United States. The main growth of tobacco use during the last 10 years,
however, has occurred primarily in developing countries and is likely to
continue. It is likely, therefore, that the consumption expansion rate,
which was 2.3% per year during the 1955-66 period, will diminish slightly
to about 2X in the 1970's but still leave the opportunity for new producers
to sell a quality product. More information on the tobacco market is given
in Annex 16.
7.05      Domestic flue-cured tobacco consumption, including some exports
to Kenya, has averaged 2 million kg annually over the last five years and
is expected to increase to 2.2 million kg by 1975. Thus, of a total esti-
mated annual production of 5.3 million kg by 1975, Uganda would need to
export 3.1 million kg, equivalent to about 0.3X of world exports of this
commodity in the mid 1960's.
7.06      Uganda's tobacco has a very short history on the international
market, and before 1968 exports were limited to Kenya. In 1968, however,
the United Kingdom purchased 0.7 million kg of Uganda flue-cured leaf at
an average green weight price equivalent of USh 8.80/kg 1/. In 1969, the
price was higher and averaged 9.70/kg green weight. Uganda flue-cured to-
bacco meets the high quality standards of the British market and further-
more, on that market Uganda tobacco takes advantage of Commonwealth pre-
ference. Presently this consists of a USh 0.34 per kg rebate on import
1/   The term green tobacco is applied to cured tobacco before redrying.



- 22 -
duties. It does not seem, therefore, that Uganda would face substantial
difficulties in selling its production on the world market, particularly
in Great Britain, providing it is able to maintain the quality levels it
has achieved already.
7.07      To take into account the possible end of the embargo on Rhodesian
tobacco, and the impact on consumption of the apparent hazards to health of
smoking, a FOB Mombasa price equivalent to USh 8.42/kg green weight is used
in report calculations. This figure is some 15% below the current price for
Ugandan exports, but is considered to be that which might prevail should
Rhodesia again enter the market on an unrestricted scale. Prices of tobacco
for local manufacture are geared to international prices for equivalent qua-
lities. In 1968, the average local price obtained was USh 7.88/kg green
weight. With increased exports it is expected that the better grades of
tobacco will be exported and lower grades used domestically by BAT. There-
fore, a future price of Sh 7.50/kg green weight is assumed for sales on the
local market.
7.08      The producer price used in the calculation of farmer incot: -
para 7.10) is based on an international price equivalent to USh 8.42/kg green
weight less processing, storage and marketing costs amounting to USh 3.03/kg.
This is equivalent to a price of USh 5.39/kg at union level (in 1969 this
was USh 5.47), and a farmer price after payment of cess and operating
change of Sh 4.73/kg in Middle North and West Nile, and Sh 4.53/kg in Kigczt.
During negotiations it was agreed that should Government consider it neces-
sary to maintain the same minimum tobacco price to all growers, IDA would
have no objection to an adjustment being made to the tobacco price payable
to the unions so that in effect Kigezi farmers would receive the same price
per kg of cured tobacco as the farmers of the other two unions (see para
7.11). Because of Kigezi's relatively small production, the overall price
would diminish by about only 2 cents/kg. Details of these price calcula-
tions are given in Annex 15.
C. Operating Results
Farmers
7.09      In Kigezi and West Nile, the annual cash income of farmers who do
not grow tobacco is very low, and in the order of USh 100 to 150 per family.
In the Middle North, where cotton is a well established crop, incomes are
i.'gher and up to about USh 400 per annum. Recent lower cotton prict. are
resulting, however, in the acreage devoted to that crop declining and con-
sequently a fall in incomes. In all tLiree areas farn.ers cultivate the ce-
reals, legumes and roots needed for family requirements, and cash expendi-
tures for food are very low.
7.10      Tobacco would substantially increase the cash incomes of partici-
pants. The budget given in Annex 7 shows that, at maturity of the project,
farmers would obtain net incomes from tobacco, after tax, equivalent to



- 23 -
about USh 1,400 per acre. In view of the relatively high income potential
of tobacco growing, Government officials anticipate little difficulty in
finding the number of participants needed to achieve project targets.
Existing crop production would not be disrupted by the proposed expansion
in tobacco growing, except possibly a limited amount of cotton production
since, if prices and productivity do not improve, some resources would be
switched from cotton to tobacco growing.
Cooperative Unions
7.11      Under the organizational arrangements discussed in paragraphs 6.06
and 6.07, the financial operations of the unions would fall into two parts:
first a capital fund in the form of the Tobacco Capital Account financed by
the USh 0.40/kg of tobacco cess, and second an operating account covering
all union and society recurrent costs, financed partly by the margin on
loans made by the Union to farmers, and partly by an operating charge. In
the case of the West Nile and Middle North unions, an operating charge of
USh 0.26/kg would be levied and would be adequate to meet recurrent costs
after a short period. In Kigezi, however, the scale of development is li-
mited in relation to overheads, and an operating charge of USh 0.46/kg
would be necessary. Tobacco farmers in Kigezi would thus pay operating
and capital charges totalling USh 0.86/kg compared with the USh 0.66 that
would be paid by West Nile and Middle North farmers, though if Government
decides to follow the procedure set out in para 7.08 above, the same mini-
mum price would be payable to farmers in all three areas. Though the fixed
charges would be 20 cents/kg higher than are presently levied against the
farmer, under the Project the tobacco farmers would not be required to make
an additional payment for the establishment of fuel wood plantation as is
now the case. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the oper-
ating charges indicated above would be applied and would not be changed
without the prior approval of IDA. Estimated operating budgets for each of
the three unions are given in Annex 8.
D. Government Revenue
7.12      Government revenue from the project would be:
(a) the difference between the price paid by the domestic
manufacturer and that received on the world market.
BAT is required to pay more than the export price,
the difference largely reflecting the import duty
that would have had to be paid had the tobacco been
imported. The total annual incremental value of
this is estimated at USh 266,000;
(b) personal taxation, which is estimated at an incre-
mental value of USh 70,000 per annum when the project
is at maturity; and



- 24 -
(c) corporation tax, which would be paid by the unions,
and which is estimated to yield USh 100,000 annually
at project maturity.
Annual government revenue at project maturity is therefore estimated at about
USh 450,000, excluding surpluses accruing to the Tobacco Capital Account
which, while being applied towards further development of the tobacco industry
would reduce the demands made on Government for such purposes. Additionally,
Government would benefit from the margin between interest received from the
on-lending of the IDA credit and the service charge payable to IDA which
while fluctuating annually is estimated at a total of about USh 600,000
overall. Annex 13 is a project cash flow, and shows that the project would
be in a surplus position throughout its life and therefore the Government
would recover more than it put in.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's primary benefits would be the increased production
of flue-cured tobacco and consequently provision of an improved livelihood
for about 6,000 small farmers. Increased production would generate increases
in tobacco exports of about 2.4 million kg, earning some USh 20 million
(US$2.8 million) in foreign exchange annually. Important secondary benefits
would be the strengthening of the cooperative movement, and the contribution
to the modernization of Uganda's agriculture. The project would also provide
an example of how credit could be made available for other agricultural
activities.
8.02      Using the prices given in para 7.07 and Annex 15, assuming a pro-
ject life of 20 years, and a zero cost for farm labor, the economic rate of
return from project investment is about 27X ranging between 19% for Kigezi
and 29% for Middle North, (See Annex 17). If a combined decrease of prices
and yields would result in 10% and 20% lower values for project output, the
rates of return would decline to 21% and 17% respectively. If, for any rea-
son, the project life was reduced to 10 years the rate of return would be
about 212 on the basis of the prices and costs assumed. A zero cost for
farm labor may not be appropriate although there is much underemployment in
rural areas, few opportunities for other economic activity, and most farmers
would grow their tobacco without need to reduce other cropping activity. If
all labor inputs are costed at the going farm wage rate of USh 3.0/day the
rate of return would fall from about 27% to about 21%.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the followinc
principal points:



- 25 -
(a) the financial operations of the unions and their
constituent societies would be consolidated (para
6.07);
(b) a Tobacco Capital Account would be established
(para 6.07);
9.02       In addition to the customary conditions, the following have
been agreed upon as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit:
(a) Conclusion of subsidiary loan agreement acceptable
to IDA between the Government and PMB, and the Gov-
ernment and the three cooperative unions (para 5.06);
(b) Agreement by UCB to function as Government disburse-
ment agent (para 5.06);
(c) Submission by the Government of evidence that the com-
mercial banks intend to continue crop loans to existing
tobacco growers on terms comparable to existing ones
(para 5.07);
(d) Submission and approval by IDA of a plan of operation
for the project (para 6.03);
(e) Establishment of a Project Committee (para 6.03); and
(f) Appointment of a Project Director (para 6.10).
9.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$4 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
UGANDA
SMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF FLUE-CURED TOBACCO
A. West Nile
1.        Tobacco production in West Nile began in 1944 when a European
farmer, now retired, started a tobacco production program. An outgrowers'
scheme was started by the Government in Terego County soon afterwards, and
later the Greek-owned East African Tobacco Company opened an estate in
Otreva.  In January 1950 all the schemeg were taken over by the reorganized
East African Tobacco Company (now BAT) end were developed and operated as
what were known as the "green-leaf schemes".  Under these schemes, farmers
were given free seedlings at the time of planting. The crop was grown under
the supervision of the company which, when harvesting started 8 weeks later,
purchased green leaf from the farmers.
2.        Green leaf was bought at Company buying centers, which consisted
usually of six large curing barns with adjoining handling sheds for baling
and grading. Such centers were situated at 3 to 4 mile intervals along
roads. The centers were designed to handle a total of 300 acres annually,
the crop being purchased over a 5-month period from April to August. Cured
leaf was transported to the compaony's plant at Kampala for redrying, and
subsequently used in cigarette manufacture.
3.        Farmers were invited to grow approximately k acre each in order
that they could care for the crop properly. Leaf was purchased from a wide
area; and any one barn might contain tobacco from 40 to 80 plots spread
over a 25 miles radius area. Since different types of leaf require differ-
ent curing techniques, it was not possible to obtain high quality cured leaf
from the green-leaf schemes.
4.        In 1953 the first Tobacco Primary Cooperative Societies were
formed. Tobacco growers were encouraged to own their own barns and to con-
struct centers along the same lines as those of the company. The idea was
that, instead of selling green leaf directly to the company, farmers would
collectively cure, grade and bale their leaf and sell it in bale to the
company. Tlhis experiment was proved unsuccessful once company supervision
was reduced or withdrawn. At this point it was realized that a green-leaf
scheme, whether run by the company or the cooperatives, was inherently in-
efficient. Consequently alternative methods of tobacco production were
sought.
5.        Up to the mid 1950's it was not considered possible to cure to-
bacco in anything other than the traditional large barn as developed in the
USA and Rhodesia. These barns were built to rigid specifications, usually
being 16 ft or 20 ft square and 17 ft at the eaves. In 1957 BAT undertood



ANNEX 1
Page 2
trials with small barns, which could accommodate the leaf from 1 ac. The
purpose of these trials was to establish whether an individual farmer owning
and operating a small barn could grow, cure and sell his own tobacco. The
result of the trials was that it was easier to cure in small barns than in
the traditional large barns, and also that, because all the tobacco cured
in the barn originated on a very restricted area, quality was high.
6.        On the basis of these results, BAT decided to close down green-
leaf operations and encourage all farmers to produce cured leaf in small
barns, and construction and curing training programs were introduced. As
it was thought that small farmers would not be capable of acquiring the re-
quired skills, middle class educated farmers and shopkeepers were selected
as participants in the new BAT aclemes.
7.        The first attempts with the small barns failed largely because
the middle claBs farmers became involved in politics, and the shopkeepers
proved more interested in trade than producing high quality tobacco. Conse-
quently a fresh start was made with small farmers, and was designated the
Master Farmer Scheme. This time, the barns were constructed out of per.1mau1
materials - brick walls and galvanized, corrugated iron roofs, which would
last 10 to 15 years, as against more temporary structures in the earlier
scheme. It was thought that the possession of a well-built permanent barn
would give growers a feeling of pride that would stimulate them to work hard
and care for their crop.
8.        In 1961 the Master Growers' Scheme was shown to be viable, and
from 1962 growth of the Master Growers' Scheme was accelerated by a BAT de-
cision to demolish its own large barns, leaving farmers with no alternative
but to build their own units. The transformation was planned to be completed
over an 8-year period with the last green-leaf center closing down in 1969.
Progress was faster than anticipated, however, and by 1964 all production
of green-leaf for sale to BAT or Cooperative Centers had ceased in West Nile.
The number of small barns increased from 240 in 1962 to 3,119 in l969.
9.        The Master Farmer Scheme was successful for two main reasons:
1) BAT financed directly, or guaranteed loans for barn
construction and seasonal production costs;
2)   BAT provided strict supervision, and extended tech-
nical advice to farmers.
10'.      It was realized in 1967 that at the rate at which fuel wood was
being consumed by tobacco growers, the limit of West Nile's tobacco produlc-
tion would soon be reached. Experiments at this time, however, showed that
if the height of a barn was increased to allow the addition of anotlier two
tiers of green leaf, the consumption of fuel per barn remained practically
the same, and the large barn would be able to cure the crop from 1 acres
instead of only 1 acre. Accordingly a barn conversion program began.
11.       BAT's objective since the start of the Miaster Growers' Scheme has
been the handing over of management of the leaf growing industry to the



ANNEX 1
Page 3
growers themselves, and to transfer supervision and extension responsibility
eventually to Government. As a first step in this direction BAT reduced
the number of its supervisory field staff early in 1969.
B. Middle North
12.       Flue-cured tobacco was first introduced into the area in 1948 when
the then East African Tobacco Company Limited pioneered the cultivation of
a few plots within a 23-mile radius of Gulu, and subsequently cultivation
spread more widely in the area. The first schemes were green leaf schemes
but in 1957, as in West Nile, experiments were made with small barns. The
success of these experiments encouraged the company to launch a Master
Growers' Scheme in Acholi and Lango during the 1958/59 season, when 100
growers were selected to participate, and field instructors were employed
by the company to advise growers in curing methods.
13.       Progress was slow, however, and by 1962 production reached only
about 570,000 kg of cured leaf. Thereafter BAT decided to concentrate its
activities to West Nile, where they had found growers more receptive, and
towards the end of 1964, they were told that no more assistance would be
provided by BAT. BAT agreed, however, to continue to bWy cured leaf produced
in the area if growers formed themselves into Cooperative Societies, and
used a tobacco Cooperative Union as selling agent. Following this advice,
a tobacco Cooperative Society was formed in 1964 and it marketed some cured
leaf the following year. During 1965, three more Societies were formed and
the Acholi Tobacco Marketing Union was registered with four affiliated member
Societies. BAT continued to buy from this Union until 1967, as well as from
a few individual growers who had agreed to supply a fixed quota.
14.       In 1966, following an offer by Rothmans of Pall Mall Ltd., an
international tobacco manufacturer, to buy tobacco from the area for both
export and domestic manufacture, the Government of Uganda launched an ex-
pansion program in Middle North covering the existing tobacco growing areas
and additional areas in Lango, East Acholi and Madi districts. As a result
24 Tobacco Grower's Cooperative Societies were formed and registered with
the Registrar of Cooperatives by the end of 1967. Only nine of these Soci-
eties have so far purchased shares in the Middle North Tobacco Cooperative-
Union Ltd. which was subsequently formed, but the Union arranges the supply
of barn construction and production materials for all Societies.
15.       By the end of 1968 there were a total of 1,060 permanent barns
and 1,300 temporary barns in the area.
C. Kigezi
16.       Flue-cured tobacco growing trials were started in 1952 in Kigezi
and results were successful. The following year, Mr. H. Campbell, a private



ANNEX 1
Page 4
businessman, established a central estate, with a curing factory at Begangori,
and neighboring farmers were organized into an outgrowers' scheme and sold
green leaf to the factory. The cured leaf was sold to BAT. This scheme
worked very well until the early 1960's when growers felt that it would be
in their best interests to grow, cure and market their own crop.
17.       These self-help attempts failed and grovers experienced difficulty
in marketing their tobacco in 1967. In 1968 the Master Growers' Scheme was
introduced to the area, and was supervised by BAT in close cooperation with
the staff of the Department of Agriculture. The introduction was successful,
largely because the scheme was modified to suit prevailing local conditions
in Kigezi, such as:
(a) Each bsrn, constructed to 12x16 ft specifications,
served eight growers;
(b) Each farmer was allowed to grow I acre;
(c) Credit for barn and production was provided through
the Cooperative Credit Scheme; and
(d) Technical services were provided by the staff of
the Department of Agriculture.
18.       Extension staff of the Department of Agriculture selected provers,
and eligibility requirements were waived to enable these farmers to obtain
credit through the Cooperative Credit Scheme. The Ihimbo Tobacco Wood Fuel
Growers' Cooperative Society Limited was formed and started with 20 barns
and a membership of 161.  In view of future envisaged expansion, it was
decided to split the Society into four, in order to streamline the admin-
instration. This arrangement worked successfullv and 77 barns had been
brought into operation by the end of 1968, in line with plans.



ANNEX 2
Page .
UGANDA
SMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
THE COOPERATIVE MOVEMENT, AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND BANKING
Growth of the C ooerLati we Movement in Uganda
1.        The Cooperative movement became established as a significant in-
strument in rural development in the 1950's. Since then the scale and scope
of its operations have increased steadily, and today it comprises sCow
650,000 farming families, 2,050 Primary Societies, 35 District Unions and
4 apex organizations. While concerned primarily with agricultural produc-
tion, processing and marketing; trading, thrift and wholesale supply oper-
ations are also significant. The movement has been particularly active in
development of the cotton crop, and, by 1968, had acquired or built 48 gin-
neries, handling 95% of the country's crop. It also purchases virtually
all of the country's arabica coffee crop and one-third of its robusta coffee
crop.
9Coperative Credit Schemes
2.        In 1961, a scheme to provide credits to farmers through their
marketing Societies was introduced and financed from various Government loan
funds. Comprehensive regulations were established, which laid down condi-
tions for farmer and Society borrowings and for the management of Societies.
The credit scheme was accompanied by an expansion of the Department of Coop-
erative Development's extension staff. Credit Officers were appointed and
assigned to rural districts to advise farmers and Societies on their credit
needs. The scheme is under the control of the Commissioner for Cooperative
Development, acting under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1964.
3.        The number of Societies receiving loans increased from 104 in
1962/63, to 344 in 1965/66, but subsequently fell back to 272 in 1968/69
when many Societies were refused new loans because of poor repayment per-
formance. In 1966/67, 21% of the loans made by Societies to members were
in arrears, and this number increased to 27% in 1967/68 (the latest figures
available). The lending position between the Uganda Conmercial Bank (UCB),
which acts as a lending agent for Government funds, and Societies, however,
has improved recently, and the default rate decreased from 15% in 1966/67
to 8% in 1967/68.  This improvement reflects the increased financial strength
of the cooperatives as a whole whereby increased Society profits are more
than compensating for individual member's defaults (Table 1). Compared with
loans made since 1962/63, totaling about USh 23 million, defaults from
farmers to Societies outstanding as of September 30, 1968 amounted to Ush 2.6
million and defaults from Societies to UCB and other commercial banks to
slightly over USh 1 million.
4.        The Department of Cooperative Development attributes the default
position to several special factors. These include the reduction on the



ANNEX 2
Page 2
cotton price paid to farmers of from USh 0.60 to 0.40 per pound following
the decline in world market prices, and the 1966 emergency situation in
Uganda. Moreover, many defaults occurred when Societies had no power to
deduct loan repayments from farmers' crop proceeds, a situation now gener-
ally remedied. In 1966, a Government Commission of Inquiry investigated
the affairs of the Cooperative Unions and its report highlighted the Soci-
eties' small financial margins and inadequate management. Most of the Cor,-
mission's recommendations for strengthening the movement are being imple-
mented by Government.
Tobacco Credit
5.        Tobacco development has not been financed through Cooperatives
long enough to establish any particular trends. Until 1968, West hile to-
bacco farmers were financed by the British American Tobacco Company (BAT)
and loans made since then by a commercial bank (against BAT guarantee) have
not yet fallen due. Experience is therefore limited to production loans
made by the Department of Cooperative Development to Middle North and Kigezi
Societies in 1967 and 1968. Of the USh 600,000 advanced to these &'(,,ieties,
approximately USh 155,000, or 26%, was in arrears on July 31, 1969.  'he
Department of Cooperative Development attributes this to the difficulties
of getting the scheme started, as well as to the fact that many of the early
loans in Middle North were applied to purposes other than tobacco cultivation.
Although limited in scope, these statistics illustrate the vital importance
of well managed Unions and Societies, project supervision, and efficient
project management.
The Cooperative Bank
6.        The Uganda Cooperative Bank (Cooperative Bank) was established in
1964 to coordinate, appraise and administer credit, primarily to the coop-
erative movement, but also to individual farmers. Certain irregularities,
however, caused the Commissioner for Cooperative Development to order its
suspension soon after it began operation and it has remained virtually dor-
mant. In its absence, the Credit Division of the Department of Cooperative
Development has continued to exercise final control over all credit oper-
ations. It has employed UCB as lending agent (as the Cooperative Bank would
have done), the work of appraisal being divided between UCB and the Depart-
ment of Cooperative Development's own and other technical extension services.
It now seems improbable that the Cooperative Bank will be re-activated. In-
stead it is envisaged that a multi-purpose development bank will be set up
to take over the lending operations of the Department of Cooperative Devel-
opment and other Government agents. The latter would include the Developynent
Loans Fund, which is under a separate board of control. Loans from that
fund are currently administered by UCB.
The Uganda Conmmercial Bank
7.        The Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB), wholly owned by Government, was
created in 1965 and took over the assets of the former Uganda Credit and
Savings Bank. It conducts all usual commercial banking operations and has



ANNEX 2
Page 3
13 branches, which thougb inadequate to meet the requirements of all rural
areas, are being augmented as opportunities allow. Its Board of Directors
is appointed by the Minister of Finance. Since 1966, the posts of Managing
Director and Deputy Managing Director have been vacant. The Secretary to
the Board is acting as chief executive.
6.        With the growth of savings and deposits, notably from parastatal
bodies, tICB has grown rapidly, as shown in the comparative balance sheets
and profits and loss accounts in Table 2. Its own lending operations have,
however, been conser"rative and conventional.  All bank loans are required
to be secured by legal mortgage, thus limiting the Bank's advances to agri-
culture. As a result, the repayment record has been excellent and net profit
in 1968 at USh 2,195,000 was double that of the previous year.
').       In acting as Government's lending agent for the administration of
various development funds, UCB's responsibilities are limited to the prepar-
ation of loan documents, disbursements, the collection of funds and the
maintenance of records. For these services, UCB normally receives a margin
of 2% on loans outstanding, and UCB management has confirmed that this margin
would be acceptable for the administration of loans under the proposed to-
bacco project.
Other Commercial Banks
10.       Apart from UCB, there are seven other commercial banks, the most
important being three British banks, Barclays DCO, Grindlays (Uganda) and
Standard. These account for about 70% of the total financial resources of
the country's banking system. Advances for agriculture vary considerably
during the year according to crop financing requirements, but in 1968 they
averaged about USh 300 million, or about half total advances. Grindlays
(Uganda) has so far been the only bank financing tobacco on its own account
(thougl, under guarantee); on September 30, 1969, its advances for crop, barn
and fuel wood plantation loans totaled about USh 4.7 million.
11.       Operations of the commercial banks are supervised by the Bank of
Uganda, the country's central bank, established in 1966. The Bank does not
rule interest rates but fixes a ceiling to each bank for rediscount oper-
ations.
Credit Policies and Savipes
12.      'There are no clearly defined interest rates applicable to the
various types of lending, but most commercial banks charge between 7% and 9%
per annuai, depending on period and security. Crop loans extended through
the cooperative movement are at the rate of 12% per annum to the farmers.
Penalties are frequently charged on overdue repayments and, for larger loans,
a commitment fee is sometimes charged.
13.       Savings accounts are the most usual form of banking for the small
farmers and in September 1969 amounted to Sh 40 million in UCB's accounts.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Grindlays (Uganda) Bank requires all tobacco farmers borrowing from it to
maintain a savings account of at least Sh 50 (earning 3% per annum) which
together with the Societies' share capital and other assets, are taken as
security.



AInn 2
Table 1
U G A N D A
5MAMLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF COOPERATIVE MOVEKENT
A. Aggregated Balance Sheets
(U Sh '000)
1965          1966           1967           1968
ASSETS
Fixed assets -6,1-98                         79,669         73,437         79,560
Loans to members              12,406         17,181         13,136         18,139
Other' assets ---------       8h,261         90,598         92,986        102,773
Deficits                       2,095          6,802         18,463         18,809
TOTAL -----------    j1.4.260         194,250        198,022        219,281
LIABILITIES
Share Capital ---             22,775         28,120         29,823         32,356
Surplus --------------        21,628         13,401          9,907         15,832
Reserve Fund ---------        39,520         48,329         50,247         57,868
Deposits -------------         4,112          4,070          4,476          5,643
Other Liabilities ----        67,225        100,330        103,569        107,582
TOTAL -----------      155,260        l9h.2          198,022        219,281
B. Net Worth
1965           1966           1967           1968
Share Capital, Surplus
and Reserves -----------        83,923         89,850         89,977        106,056
Deficits -----------------         2,095          6,802         18,463         18 809
Balance --_---------83,048 871,254?
Increase (Decrease)   -                           1,220        (11,534)        15,733
12/17/69



U G A N D A
S?LU3tlERR TaLCCO PRQJCT
amAMA  COIMCIAL  BASK
COPAT IVE BALANCE  SHUSS
(V Sh  000.,)
As of Slutere 30                      966        1967         1968                                                                                           1966          1967        1968
Paid in    itlit ...................................    20,000       20,000      20,000          Liquid Asseta
Caah in hand and at     b.                                                   8,636         6,157       13,136
Reservea                                                                                            bney at call and short n          tic e. ................. ...................  12 830    22,500        3,357
Capital reser  ................................lO S O r   -            --       1,463             Uganda 0atonuint Trsamzr   8           i     l la                            6,987         3,908        6,971
General reserve .................................        250    - 600           1,350             Other BiUh receivable ........                                                   --          229        1,120
Profit and Loae Accnt .........................A.        340          398         666             Short dated Uganda Gkrernuet   st o             ck .. ..                                     572       20.,40O
lvelopent. fund ....................... I ........      595        1,673         622                                                                                         28,453        33,446 .45624   -
Training fund ...................................        194          178         68a4                                           *      *                                                                45,624
Sub-ttal ......  , 1,379  2,809  4,715
Iveastwata at cost
Uganda Gov.rrnt ftnda                                                                               Other dated tockc.                                                            4,996    4,386   4,298
Gr,up  arrg Lo         d ........................      1,691        1,618          -              Desp'its with Par*eStatal Bodies  nd other inv.atmt .19,723                               37,500       41,500
Special Tea Scoa_  td .........................          411,         360         359                                                                                         _
tobacco Davwloptent Loan 1td ..................           -           59           --                                                                                         24,719        41,886      45,796
Ranching Devel o; t Fw%d .......................           --          --       3,037              ances, L o      hd otbor Accounts......                                     )9,262       33,4   s8,0m
Siub-total ............. ..                                                         ............... 2 ,105   nrt37   3,306
Ridttasces  aDd Dreari      in trmt 1 3 .........................................                       .......... 1.953  6.47
Current, Deposit ad other Acounts ...............               ,.,itt7n614  95c564 1and89ti3i                                                          135ra.a3  
Fixed Asts...                                                                  5 231 6762 8 176
99,096     120,450     164,074                                             '     *                                                               ! X7E
Gonfirmed Credits, A.captances   Ou arantees ......         18        2,447       3,415           Liability of cautoalru for coafirad Credita, Accept4auaa &
-    -... ... -                            Ouarnts...                                                                       18  2,44? 3,hlS
99,116     122,897     167,489                                                                                          99.916      122,896      167,489
PRFrTt AD LNDS LOWADCTS
For the j.ar anded Septeuber 30
Intarest
Salariea and other staft expenae ................        2,230        2,67L       3,18h             Receivable .........................................................          .,699        5,852        7,.48
MS.'elle"ous erpenaes.                                     568   68L    96                          L...ss Payable..                                                              1,393  2,29h 2470
Travelling and car *xp,ona ......................            99    l     O         140                                                                                           3,306                     4,662
Depreciation and Jaortisation.....                         110          119         2....         Coaiaaions and miscellaneous incom_                                                42          396          974
;!7'I'   37I   B. Rant. receivable.                                                                                        63    173   300
ea. Eapenses recovered from                                                                       Bad debts recovered .............................................                   1            -            I
D'velop_nt LoanP Fund                        ..........................  5 30   53  530         Agency  e3.1                                      4.129
2 4?'    3 251    3 914                   Devel7pment Lcans Fund...                          9D                        9       0
Not Profit for the yar ..........................        T                   ,                      Other Givrnment L'in' ....                                                       3'            91      _
127          li   1        71 
,3, 1237,116                     3,639                                                                                                4310       I6,110
12A17/69



1.  T(MM,     W"M   2MIA
ARIA                   ~~~~~~~~.U.0.                                                                                    lap                   T 7.1
...................... .                        3,630           370       0,000          3.00       4.3,00        600        5,000             --     0,000         1, 370
81040 v             0..                                292            382        3,360          697       41007          T%.       1.801          1.189      6,oo         3,029
8 1~~~~~. .           1     .          183, ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 66      00            7           25          100         725             70        800           316
.............                     9,9              II0       7,99        1,1II        8,062       1.6*1 -     10,836          1.26h.   11,800         4,709
70.,                      1,700                   ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~302  1,002    90       2,600                   500                  233       3,333                1.600               233
P  ,60 di-C                          1,302i   f--t             ~     dwf 0'X2              A             cb      --   P       -d. -                --t        -t
9.0.b, Ak p.         3. 435/-   TobSo ,. A            Wo,'o   -  2.8-.* i-..          5W83/-               . 1,609-    T.8.. 8.-.            s0o L35/-      sh. l.6o3/-
27., 9.,,,.  ~   ~ 0,.. 700.200  9."         8. 131,990      7,7903190,0                      3.09           3m 230,900           5h  373.OO         5,90           Sh. 697,900       38. 773,900
...0    . . .        .3,0                                 39. 131,000       6,o0'         5h. 310,000         3.0                    ..           59.01.002        5,000                    --    5. 1,070,0o0
D.  KED18  88A
8.010120   197970                               ~~~~~~~~~1971/72                      i9 L......3                               1 h                         .0.1
l2    122' 0 7.. P.o..t,.....o...0                      1.671                      921       2,095                     1,103       3,609                    1.013        6,811                    1,189        6,om                     1,329
12     2 1   ?0. T 7- T .py .........7..........                                                                                                               --           --765  3-
fp.09.            oat.6  "      P-..0000  ISP           00..0          .0,60.  f00            0059          Ppo-Odi., f00            0.0t  t      ft-id.000  f0            700.1
T.8-.0   A0,.1       jKja             2.bo0 AO.-            58  1.302/-    T.8.0. A05              8.10-          70is 6b.., A-..      58. 1.500/-    7,0.2, ho..                00.0
3 .7,2 B-.o  5.r01cio   I 12.- T.8~..........           2,970           58. 1,j86D           7,360            5h. 1,655,000        4,057             s.  ,670,0o0        4,011            St. 1,78L,00         6,0o0            sh. 6.905.000
2mL                                   _                        __ MF;f_                                                           _        _t  td
16',16 6 Tl-..................                           121                   19            010                      70           210                      32          2"I                      ?8            270                     119
Pp.v009.f 7..          0.0.        PP.00600  000           100t t        PP.o68   fop            00.0.         P9,,,060g for           001.t  t       S0O  r0-                T.0.1
7,.2,0 AC-.        St. 3.500/-    258..o o               aw03.5w/        7,b..o ho.            5h. 3.5002-    8bbo  A               $h.p3.00/       09bo.. AS.               00t.0
B. o.2/7.8..-/7o8..o lo t. .00......             LBO           38. 67.000            5 60            58. 210,000           630             M8. U12,00            726            58. 98.000            800              8. 522.000
19700'71    IT     7           1972  'g73. 14  L /75
7,0.1 0010 k1l. h      ..........     .     1.58L,0D0   2,29.9,0     2,373,00    1,882,03n   8,087,000
III. WDM3U, 22.0AT700 M3*8
A. V5.0 902.0
p10.t~ Pp.1.   hop ..............              ...        8393~            667            409             --.1,006
7.0.1 00.000  58. 350/. p.o. .0 ......... 226,07 5.13000 S-                                                 -----                                                          58  369,000o
P1.00t0.  000   .    ...............            ..                       1,103          1,3971        70             7,19   1,01      i2015~~T7    Ti1    Tii1
IO-o1.0t t. 3.poOo.i  2.8.-  c.   .........      .            .          1,900          7.311         3,756          3,356   3,022   3,000   3,007   3,356   3,356   3,022
T.t.1 00.t6258 . 300/-      A.p ho ........8. 504,000   Sh. 504,000   58. 506,056O  30  501,020DO                                                                            2,18000
230t.0.00   2.0  - ho.p. ..................                                                                              - 1 ,089   1,010   1.110   1,3.1    1,2,.hn   1,0898-
Aw'I.1..0 to S.pt-,.i 7          M.2 .hp ............                                                                         9,:8    7.92h    2.002   ",on0  21,10    2,10 
P1-t.g0,  Pg        . lo...............                         t          288            79      28            28       9         ---                                                1 ,152
7~.0.  C0.00 tl58. 350/- p- o   .o .......5S. 101.000   S8. !01GI                          M8. 101,0200   M8.101l020--Sh. 101,000
P1..0.000s 8.0    . ho......................8.                                                                                          799      2R8     288     288      081             -
89.030   . 30,0o.ig  ...     o  ...........                                                                        -      000     180      180     180     080      900
0. 97DT0.
1370/97       1971,72        1972 ?53      17.0.1?t-
PF1t.g0.  Pp.8.  - hp. ....2,375                                         2.137          1.728         1,720            7.968
T.0.1 0t.0.........s   831.000   30. 708,00    8. 00590    M8. 605,000   32. 7,799,000
5/   .000  fI0. 0. L   .          -.0.p   I, f0030 Y'..p  tl.-.d0.  1 b-1 to 300.o0p.
W_.df_ l       Pl-t00,g Pw-p. plm..6  0 pp.5061 630% f7 tb-.2 f 70..  i..a8             . 05.. Nil. -0 ti i ..d 10% 0. 8id41. M-Lb6.  A..  t0h0
-  fi0,           ". ..h...  ~     .0. -.df070   .0ll opoOs  75 -. y6. 00  91t ..h0 .-. 0b.0.0  sqoip. LS 00 y0..
OfI 8.39, .00.t6.  .2p. .0f7..  1,153 -2.  00.00.  0 1065. 1,301 0. 0066. 2,910 0  1967, 2.00 0. 1960 -  105 0. 1969.
T.0.1  f0,157  .,  6170   p.
7.t4.1 ,f 1,39, o.d 100.9 ..
t/2  .s .       .11 pl.td0 L. 1969.
1.2/17/69



UGANDA
smfl        .aoc  mCO                                                                      ANNEXr   4
mm= cmE
(U 83   -000)
Thit Cot           17/               1970/72           197VT73            197Y74            Tta 70l*r
i' i'A II DRSSn=f
70.b-co bs.0  (WV)!V, 1o                                    1.6                                            (233).   373                               373               224
f.,_0.  oct.ntibcton                                                                           366                             466
B.i0.I  b6o  (WM)    1 lo 0n,435                                        (300)   1U        (U)    As         (SW)      218                             6S7               418
f.,_,.'  -ntbUtion                   0.6                  1N 81o                               30                              960
T7.0.- b-.u (ME)    1.                                     1.5           (14) 1,386   (l1.20    1.6lf    (1,ll3)   1,678    (1,18S)   1, 78        6,495             3.897
f-..  -.t0tr0bti,.                   2.0                1M8A.             2,                 2,226               2,378       8,658
T.b   .6 b-   (K)   ,1o.-                                   3.5          (19)     67       (7) >             (32)    212        (28)      98          522               313
r.,_,.' o ntrib3 tio                 3.0                                                                                       447
7.861 f-.Goa.
V.861 r.,_,,, o.trO86tloo                                2C                                   3,8                =2.3.62-;85
210.0 y..r lawoe.                                           o.6/ c0     (M1A)           U                l4) I               J1264)                                  _r
S,3b-8t.t1                                                   4,160            5,1147             6,333               5,102      21,43a.            6,631
31oonUATI 08YU11S2
.1ling 0.t.0. (Vi S, 3W 29, K 4)                           5O.0         (126)  1,50    (16)                                                         2,436            1,006
No-im.0   .ooi.ty     ro.nl &c7.0                                        (12)     814      _        i          )a
30..18~ o.1..   T.o    l 1)i0.0                                     (1)     80                                                                    8                2
Zoo.1  wt-ro  (WM 4. N  6, 1 1)                           140.0           (9)   IF          m                o7                                       Sbtl
--Wi ni    _      (Mk 1)                           B0,0            (1)     so                                                                  60                26
us.i.t nt   s.c  (WI 1, 1 1, r 1)                60.0            (3)    1.0                                                                  180               63
--aWn0nt (WMU 1,     1)                         30.0            (2)     60                                                                  60                18
book0.860.fto   por (8N 2, MW 2, 1 1)            10.0            (S)     50                                                                   S0               10
w.t.r ,tillon (Nk)                                         40.0            (1)     .0                                                                  40                24
7.61010., *]tion    n                                     132.0           (3)     96                                                                   96               86
oll 0.r                            ~~~~      ~     ~~~~18.0  (2) A-
Wod fI-l plt    tion                                       0.350/1C, (2,375)   3I    sI                   71.728)
C,ntin.,g.ci                                                  10%                422                                   83                  61                           214
00.0.0081                                                    4,647            2,059                912                 666       8,284             2,357
S.100.., : tity  -.0C      7 (VH 6, 3 19, K 4)              3.6           (9)     32       (17)     61       (29)    la                 104          301
a  30ty  olrk                                  1.6            (9)     16       (17)     31      (29)      52                  52          151
Ad0.ir.tiot. 00t b i   -o                                  10.0           (9)      90      (17)    170       (29)     290                 290         840               126
YAi0.t-.. -.o t,0t  b.dim9.                               5,0                    s01o2                              3                   3           475               163
T&1 -lnietie.                                             7xt        -m       -i--mFTX                                          r
S0.1-300  3Wi3  3W20481                                   230.0           (2)   Im                 RM                                    1             d 
c i t.nt   1 pr                                  25.o          (3)     75                75                 7F                 75          300
0300.0003±                          2~~~     ~     ~~~~6.0  (2)  32           32                32                  32         128
c- hi r/b _r66..~,                              10.0            (3)    30                 32                30                  30         120
3.2          (13)     39       (17)     51                 5511                           192
20.!!   n-0t                                                  25S                 44                47                47                  47 1         5
h6613,1003tO. 00 .t & i2 nr                                                       66                70                 74                  74         284                43
520 -00.      .1. b.lldlo.                              5%                  84               90                 97                  97 3       368               no0
s oicl C7p*riOWi°n buiMixa                  217~~?/15       (S)5()                   S S)9S                                  7          36               2170
Nd.0 0 in od f             I plnt U                        0.0o05                  (Z,375) 2              (4,912)                                   Et,22.0)
C00.i0006.00_                                                 10%                         -  9_X                                                      4a_               173
.b-tt..1                                                    1,032            1,263              1,494               1,502       5,291             1,905
PROJECT ADNDIIST01 T72 N 17TY  3S
HQ Offi1- 0.o1    t                                         -                      30                                                      -           30                1S
Z.Alo,,1 0011ff0                                          15.0           (5)     75                                  -                                75                23
N n- ori.o.f                                               90 .0         (13)    650        (3)    190                -                                o330
- .b.     0t    0 tff                             10.0           (38)    360       (1)      10       (3.)    2°b        (12)     120         550               160
-ta000  .0.00,                                    2.0           (33)     66       (a)      16      (2.2)    24                   -          106                21
W.h., r.r Ucl.0000                                         40.0            (6)    240               -                 -                    -          240               1414
V.hil1. - dQtt.c,   g30.                                  32 .            (2)     6b               -                 _                    -           6b               5N
f1010 01f1o.r.   11 0..18.0                                   (1)    234.       (3)      54.                                   -           88               260
- .0ecr 030100                                   13.6           (38)    137       (1)     54      (4)   1              (12)      43         198               I78
- bicyol..                                        Q.6           (33)     20                        C;j. 7                                                      2
C0.2106000                                                    lGS105             log9               2b               .2                   16          238              122
0.b-t.t.1                                                    2,055              263                94                  179       2,621             1,343
98030?T 51*00368
HQ .          p1 d0. - pj..t d.otor                       160.0           (1)    160        (1)    160       (1)    160          (1)     160          640              640
_dp70ty di-ctcr                               60.0            (1)     60       (1)     60        (1)     60          (1)      60         240                -
_-0      bookk.                                  0 C)                 50       (1)     50   t 1)         50          (1)                 200
b-kk..P-  6  t..Wph.-      20:0             3)    60        (4)    Bo          4)     8D          (4)                 300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  () 80 4 83()  2
d.1-.-cg                                       4.0            (1)      4       (2)      a        (2)      8          (2)       8          20                _
2t.1f   -.o.                                                  25%                 44                50               50                   50          194               -
HQ t, 1                                                                           90                                130         4_0                                    120
rild tff rr 1 d.- _   .. 86,bn. 011.r                     16.0           (2)     3         (2)                     -? (2)   TF(2)
-t. .  -P. 01pfi1.,.               16.0           (5)     80        (8)     2         (8)    128          8)     128          464
t-186                              24.0            (6)    1"4      (6)      96        (6)   144 J(6)             144          576
-20.0.00..8.4.0                                   (23)     "9       (24      96       (8)   212          (40)     160          460-
_ ceop.                            LO      _    d_r 4.0  (6)  23   (6)     Rh       (6)     24                   -            72
r.t , ,                             s.0           (9)    )6         (9)     bS       (9)    3W           (9)      16          160
-0600 ont     t.                      2.4          (33)      79      (41)     9       (3)   137           (53)     127          431
2t.1f m.o.t                                                   25%                124               13.              153                  159         978 
5000.0o0of f hildig.                                          S%                  60                68                72                  78          279               83
0.hi.1. 0.ti          T        l                           20/15/25               37                                3                                                1 133
T0.1l 1 0ld tff1                                                                       -ir                      I74         *883             1if7
10%               Is                                                    2r Mg
0o1...to86l                                                 1,836             2,103             2,160               2,253        5,382            2,363
T006CO 5SQ7/iO  (Prod.. K.lltin2    brd)
C.. n1 tcbcw 0to    2 . 40,000 o ft                        0.65                                     o         (1)  1,800  S -             22       3.600             2,700
St0.t-0 *q86p.                                                                                     200                                   2 000       402               360
01ti.pOi.                                                     15                                   2                 -
-                           -               -             --- 2-- M            488 
000.0.0.1                                                      -             2,2D             _  -                 2,200        4, k0            3.366
0.6-0.86                                                     90SC              -                  -                   -           000              400
TOftL                                                 14,270            13,735           11,Q13               li,902      50,920            38,36
4/ WI - W.0t 81., MR - 0lddl. Ileth, I *  ip.-1.
v/ VIa.... in br.8.0  i,,dlc.86  o.6rr     or qe nOOti0i-
3 '30'70



MAll; 37> U . aeA5C^ PFfCJECr
55';-  ~A: D APPLICAnGCGS C F  MDS AND DIZBFZQYaS
(U Sh Y.ilhion and US $ Million)
Far-xrs &                Iccsra::ves   So7err.Zer.t         I     D     A                                               All Scrzces
=^ rt   P4rcFzses_/   Lzoal p hase,/    Local    Purchazes  International Pro-              T  o t  a  1             T  o  t  a  I
c-urerert Costs
US;         U          S3 3us       U u                       SUS                            u h  SU Sh                S S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
%Cbacco barnsI 1Co.s                     -                       1.508       .22        3.879         .55     2.700         .39        6.579         .914       8.087        1.6
I far%eraf Contributi±cc   10.531       1.50         -         --                       -          -          -             -          -         10.531        1.50
Seaasc.al cr09                            -            -          ._37       .09        1.637         .23       .559        .0        2.187         .31        2.821         .4
Si.o-tctal              10.5-1        153        V            .31                              3.250         .47        U           1          21.112        3
,w'etie:'                                              -          .745       .11        1.915        .27         -          -          1.915         .27       2.660          .31
.--,  r.                                 -             -          .583       .08        1.1499       .21                               1.ll99        .21       2.082          .2r)
Fe. C WCOd  lantAticns                                 _          .7G1       .11        2.008         .29        -          _          2.008         .29       2.769 89
.cnt1r.3-.cieS                           -            -.211                  .03         .542        .08         -          _           .51.2       .08          751 .5
Sub-total                              -         2.,20                                                                  MM       *     33 .;                 _Tn
Cooer.tive a.rsaemeft
Sccieties                              1.767           .24         _         _            _          _           _          _            -           -         1.767          .2L
Unions                                 2.003           *30         -         -            -          -         1.060        .15        1.0140        .15       3.043          .L5
Ccntr.geanci*a                         _.,c            .06                   --                      -          .100        .01         .100         .01        .01.8         .07
Sub-totl                               .c0         -          -            -         --        r.95 .16                 1.11.21 .770
Pro3',ect Administration Threstments
Cffees anid hbsaes                      -                        .499       .06        1.284        .18         -          -          1.2814        .18       1.783          .2tw
?a::c:es                                 _             -           -         -            -           -         .600        .09          .600        .09        .600          .09
Contingencies                                                     . .50      .01         .128         .02       .060        .01          .188        .03        .23a ,8Y
Sub-total                 -            _           .51.9    ~7           T~!7          .20       .7        ~I5                        .E 6 MT                 7
Prc'e ct Aris-'ernt
.sadq arter Staff                        -                        .40        .06        1.038         .15       .640        .09        1.678         .24       2.082          .30
Field StAff                              -             -         1.310       .19        3.368         .48        -          _          3.368         .48       4.678          .67
'!rainir .g                                            -          .241       .03          .619        .09        -          -            .619        .09        .860          .12
Continetncies                            -             -          .196       .03         .506         .07       .060        .01          .566        .08        .762          .11
Sub-total                 -            -                                                                      MT   I    r  7 5157  1             MI5  1.20
Scbacco Storan
Cmtral Stores                            _                        .900       .13          _           .        2.700        .38        2.700         .38       3.600          .51
Storage ;quipoent                        _             _           _         -            _           _         .400        .06          .400        .06        .400          .06
Cctingencias                            _             _          .100       .02           -          -         .300        .C,          .300        .04         .400         .06
Sub-total                                        1.000   .63                                   T.=         --.TR        3:I            4        Utr
Techvcsl Assiatance                                                    _         _            _           .          S           97          .500        .07          S00         .07
_ 2 0.-71 2-8- -7-                                                                                                      501 -20      -
Notes        Based en 30%  of total estixLted loel cost expenditurs excepting item note
j/ Based on 70%  of total *etVaated local cost expenditures excepting it_ note 2/
,3  Balmee of est*ated locea cost *lemt of Tdbaco Storage aftw deduction estiated Foreign  xchange costs



U G A N D A                      ANNEX 6
SMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
TERMS OF LQANS 1
Borrowers' Annual
Years         Interest Rate
Government to Produce Marketing Board:       19 21              8
Government throu4h Uganda Commercial
Bank to Unions: -3
for Union purposes                     14                 8
for farmerst loans (matching on-lending)                  6
Unions to farmers:
for barns                               7                 8
for crop loans                   10 months average       12
Notes:
1/ based on expected life time of assets and present practices.
2/ 16 years repayments after 3 years grace from first year's drawings.
3/ UCB receives a service charge of  2%, i.e. paying Government 6;9 interest
per annum on loans made for Union purposes and 44% interest per annum on
loans made for farmer loans.
i/ 10 years repayments after 4 years grace from first year's drawings.
5/ 5 years repayments after 2 years grace from first year's drawings.
1/22/70



UGAI.L'
SM3kLUOLDV3R TOBAC0 PRW0J)>,T
FARM BUDGET FOR ONE ACRE 0  TCEACCO
(U Sh)
TearS      1            2           3           4            5            6             7              8                9
INIIOME
Tobacco sales 1/                                 1,088       1j419        1,656       1,892       2,129         2,129        2,129         2,129           2,129
Crop loan                                          600         600          600          60')       600           300          150           -               _
Barn loan                                        1 50        _
__ m                                        ro   rr3-1T 2.079                                                                 7 7"
On fa-c exLcndilures
Purana3e of fue7 wOOd                               60          60           6°           60         60            60          60             60              60
Transport of fuel wood                             100         100          100          100        100           100         130            100             1)0
Seed bed preparation                                 50         50           50           50          50           50          50             50              50
TractOr cultivation  3/                            110         110          110          110        110           110         110            110             110
FTrtoiizlerr   l i                                 100         100          100          100        100           100         100            100             100
lnsecticides                                        30          30           30           30         30            30          30             30              30
Barn insurance                                       25         25           25           25          25           25          25             25              25
Repia-ezient of barn equipment                       -          21           76           76          76            76         76             76              76
Balir_ meaXWerial    4/                              30         LO3          45           50          58           58          58             53              58
Barn construction                                1         500         -           -            -            -                    ~ 
Sub-total                             596b                     60-1   6    09            6.09 609           6      .0
Gontingencies    /                                   51         54           60           6o         61            61          61             61              61
Total on-farm expenditurea                          5      90                         6                   670 6                     673
Debt Service
Barn loan  6/                                       120        120          375          375         375          375         375
Crop loa,n 7/                                      660         660          660          661         660          330         165
Sub-total           _     7F         -780       1                                        705       103
TOTAL EIPMNSES                             = 1,37)   Tt3T             Z           5         i;77                                        670
Net income before tax                               352        649          565          796      1,024         1,o51.      1,069          1,459          1,L59
Personal tax  8/                                    60          60           60           60          60           60          60             75
NET  lNCCMi  j/                292         589    50;             ,6 2'      _                           135
(see notes on followir pase)






Annex 7
Notes
1/    Price to the farmer: USh 4.73/kg (Annex 15); yields are given in Annex lIb.
2/    Covers the cutting of fuel wood.
3/    Subsidised charge representing 52% of the cost to tractor Hire Service.
Th/   Hessian, tarlined paper, jute and twice supplied by the Society.
_/   ~10 of on-farm expenditures excluding barn construction ccsts which
already include a contingency provision.
6/    7 year loan with a grace period of 2 years and interest at 8% per annum.
7/    At the rate of 12% per annum repaid annually at the end of 10 mornths.
0/    Personal base payable is USh 60 on annual income below USh 1,200 and
USh 75 on incomes between USh 1,200 and USh 1,800.  The estimate is calculated
on tobacco earnings only and assumes that one man cultivates one acre.
9/    In Kigezi, large shared barns will ultimately service about 3 acres of
tobacco reducing the barn loan cost per acre by USh 300 to USh 1,200 and debt
service proportionately. Against this the additional USh 0.20 charge levied
in Kigezi reduces farmers' revenue from tobacco sales by USh 90 to USh 2,03Y)
at full production level.  In practice however,  M  may make a small adjustmnent;
to the price mechanism so that Kigezi farmers would receive an additiunal USh
0.20/kg tD offset the higher operating charge and thus pay the same price to
farmers in all three areas.






uo sh - )
3,iLLH0LrE  ~CC    O JUC?
1974/T719I              1977272  U1,1 2                  1.975/7     197(V77   12            978/79    199
WET 92Lt *I2
r-,  YI..ds (Kg OW0s)                                         1.c0        1.?0       2.250       2.250      2.250       2.250     2j250        2.250      2,257       2.250
*5 ei r In,  l:',t,. - hlni~u,               l95                            165        185         185         165        185         185        165         185        165
- :;n'oitirn   '/                      (16) 788  (1t) 3gk  (20) 3              360        360           0          60         6t,        60          6
Tot.al 0nats                                                                             5i              
1ll. l11-  I  ot#-r,.oI MrgIot.  3!                      121         131        171        169         165        101          60         11,          4-
- 1  'ont.s OperrnLng S O rge                            1,h8       51S         585        585         585        565         585        585         585        s8s
-   Ir,,.en,rstaent ^M.rketinq Minrmnses  t             .;L         .22 135                135         1          135         13SU                               135
Pu.1  I ZinC-^en                                                 699        766        891         889 B                  821         78         y34        .724        720
I.   Co-o-rratint r. ot  L0%                                      90      103                      138         6         Uo                      76         72          70
Enuv~lvmt I.z 4" ets p.r Kg                                                                                     7          7
KMI1     WORN I tHWRI
7,'tAl Yi,ld,i (Kr Oolsiitr 1,168                                                     1,611      2.087       2,41?      2.544       2.641      2,70n   2,700
*,o,frltInr l itt  - lOnion                                    1l5          185        185         185        185         185        185         185       15          195
= sooietins                              (15)  2   (7 0)  60  (29)                22                                           52 ?22 ?
tlCost.,                                                     4          CTf    X7    IM                    0t         4           707    7?              A0 
lon. >me - Interest Margint,                                     129        183         733         292        723         161         93          45         16          --
-T Cents Oberating Chnrg                               201        304o        419        583         627        661         687        702         702         70?
Rrlmhoirsement Marketing Kxpennes                       46         70          97        125         145        153         158         162        162         167
t-tal Incorle                           376        5£7         749        9~~~~~~           ~ ~~~       ~ ~~~~~~~~60  _  97  98  .909  880      8&1
I         'S  r6or9ttcn  *ax 1t  1                                                                      9      1#1                         6       1      6      9 
F.lttiotv.ent t.o Cents ner Kg                                                                                                                      T
haUl  tIMtA
~' t.  hellm(  IKe X(t',i                                        126        102         238        294         335        347         356         360        3602        36
r. ttt,. C,st  - 11onl na2                                               f?2          82         82          82         87          82          82         82          B?
_ S.ctrties                                ( ') 36    (3)5Sh    (I.) 72    ~ 72               72         72          7?         72          72          7
rotal Costs                                                     (I) I32                    7i57 m                          11         21          1          T           __
1h,-r    Intret,t Morrtn 1l                                                  25         30          33         31          21         11           6          1          __
-  Ibn Cent   n  KOr-ting Cor  p g                        58          8h        109        135         1Sh        160         161.        167        167         166
- RoIntbnrss.sent. M rk  ting Sxpansee                     8         11          lh         18          20          21         21          22         27          2?
r'tot income                                                    jj ;                      ~                    0         20         196         193         190        186
0                                   --b 1A T.7 1,5                                                             -+          ' Nm 
to,,- C,or,'tattnn  &Tnx at 1.0112                                                                                          19         l.16                   lh          1
ito loielrit. t Cent  -r Xg Kg
I   For total  perti-nn  e""It debt service an Loans (.e  Anrx  13   ) md proftta deriving fern tr din    rattu. o  supplies
A At estiststd cost of U Sb 1P (00 per Ssclety for the nurber oa  vocietimh ohosen.
3S  At 6S on First.-Year In,t. and 2% on Sarm Loans.
Paid by Prmit,  trkUting Bound.
I0/70






UGANDA: SMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
|AINISTRY OF MARKETING AND COOPERATIVESI
1 |   0                      PROJECT _ COMITTEE
PERMANENT SECRETARY                                              Consisting of.
-Perm, Secretary, Min. of Marketing
and Coop. (Chairman)
-Commissioner for Cooperative
Development
POETADMINISTRATION                                            -Commissioner for Agricultu.re
PROJECT  ADMINISTRATION                                            -Chief Conservator of Forests
Director                                                           -Tobacco Manager of PMB
Deputy Director                                  ~~~~~~~~-Represent.tiv. of UCB
Chief Accountont                                                   -3 Representatives from the Tobacco
CHieStffAcounan                                                       Unions
HO. Staff ( 6/                                                     -Project Director
WEST NILE UNION                               MIDDLE NORTH UNIONl
Manager                                       Mnanger                                                            KIGEZI UN4ION
Assistant Manager                             Assistant Manager
Accountant                                    Accountant                                                         Manager
Admin. Staff ( 7 )Admin. Staffj( 7 )Admin. Staff ( S 
TECHNICAL STAFF                                                20 COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES           TECHNICAL STAFF               29 COOPERATIVE  SOCIETIES         TECHNICAL  STAFF               4 COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES
Junior Techn, Officer (4 )                                       ceay    oae                     Junior Techn . Officer ( 7     Sertr)aae                         Junior Techn. Officer ( I      S)e-           .  e
Asst. Coop. Officer ( 46                                                                                                        Cler                              Asst. Coop. Officer  I         Clerk
Field Assistant ( 40 )                                                                            Field Assistont ( 58 )                                          Field Assistant ( 8
Coop. Supervisor -  2 )                                                                           Coop. Supervisor ( 3 )                                          Coop. Supervisor   1 1
Forest Ranger ( 4 )                                                                               Forest Ranger ( 4 )                                             Forest Ranger   I 1                                             7
Tobacco Scout ( 201                                                                               Tobacco Scout ( 29                                              Tobacco Scout (4)                                               Z
IBRD-4640(3R) 0



UGANDA                          ANNEX10
5MALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
DETAILS OF STAFF REQUIRMJWT
Existing  Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 14
Project Administration
Director                          -         1        1        1       1
Deputy Director                   -          1       2        1       2
Chief accountant                  -         1        1        1       1
Bookkeeper                        -          1       2        2       2
Secretary/stenographer            -          2       2        2       2
Driver                            -          2       2        2       2
Cooperatives l/ 2
Unlon manager-/                   -          2       2        2       2
Ass. (Junior) manager2/           -          3       3        3        3
Accountant                        -          2       2        2       2
Cashier/bookkeeper                -          3       3        3       3
Storekeeper                       -          5       5        5       5
T'ypist                           -          3       3        3       3
Clerk                             -          3       3        3       3
Driver                            -          3       3        3       3
Watchman                          -          3       3        3       3
Society secretary/manager         33        33      1        53      53
Clerk                             33        33      41       53      53
Technical Stafl'W
Junior techn. officer             10        12      12       12      12
Ass. Coop. officer                 3         8      11       11      11
Forester                           3         9       9        9       9
Field assistant                   66        89      90       94     106
Cooperative supervisor            -          6       6        6      -
Forest ranger                     -          9       9        9       9
Tobacco scout                     -         33      41       53      53
1/ Some oooperative Union staff do exist, but operate on a. low level.
2/ 2 managers and 2 ass. managers for West Nile and Middle North; Kigezi Union is
headed by a Junior manager.
3/ )xisting staff at present with BAT, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of
- Cooperatives.
l/,'2/ 70



UGANDAL
SMALLHOLDER TOMCCO PROJECT
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PROJECT DIRECTOR
1.        The Pro.lect Director would have technical responsibility for carry-
ing out the project and would have the following specific duties and powers:
(a) Executing the proJect in accordance with a plan of
operations agreed to by Government and IDA, and with
policies and procedures agreed to by the Project Com-
mittee, in particular:
(i) Advising and supervising the Union Managers
on their duties and responsibilities and
coordinating their activities and proposals;
(ii)  Approving, disapproving and recomending
requests for loans-made by Unions and PMB;
(iii) Maintaining liaison with the Ministries of
Agriculture and Marketing and Cooperatives
in prescribing duties and responsibilities
for supervisors and extension staff and
making recommendations for selection, ap-
pointment, promotion, demotion, supervision,
remuneration and other compensations; and
(iv) Providing training for staff and tobacco
growers.
(b) Preparing annual and quarterly investment programs
and budgets for the project;
(c) PreDaring annual and quarterly progress reports for
submission to the Project Committee for transmittal
to the Association;
(d)  Preparing quarterly reimbursement requests to IDA; and
(e)  Preparing financial accounts and statements and submitting
audited accounts to the Project Committee for transmittal
to the Association.



SPwJ.mmsW TOhOWM PWJECr
OhCWo CPIU.L cC1tIr
(u ab ' Wo)
1970C1   197V2   1972'3   197A.   1974/5   1975/6   1976/7   1977/V   1976/9   1979/80  19(V1   1981/2   1982/3   19684    19813    1965/6   19867   1987, S 196AS 9   196j0
L4OaO - Cooperatty, beigags etc.
IX t f11im                             2,289      126       -
MWdl. North                            2,535      974       231
lisi                                     4°S09    t           8
Sb-total                        5.233    1.237       36
CUAItiS   IM                           6,3       6470          6,71  671
L40n - tual vod plntatons-
Wat Nile                                 2W9      157       -         -        456       1.62      462       379      456
ftd&* *rLb                               55S      554       5         555      813       832       832      832       832
Llpal                                    121     Ju       j4          ill     -IN         fl        f         7        73
kb-totl                           914       622      66        666    145       1.367    1.367    1,284    1361
Omlt5ve lom                              9S14    1,736    2,963    3,066                                  To    *  6,833
total  lom                     6,147    2,059         12      666
Total c3a_Swo                   6.14      8.2       S.ll    !.784
AplUCata - br-                                     -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -      1,331      1,334   1,334    1,334    l,S8I    2,212         2,3n3    1,60
,U.                     -         2X        -            -     1 15 -              2& _ _48   1, &52 2"                                       -        -        1        7-                             - ago
- kbl mod plsetatla   -                                                                            _ _ _ _ _ -  _ _ _                           776                                                                 -
kN-total                         -         290       -        -         L -nob    -        200       -         -S    1,i 6    2,1"                   2,110   2,1.2    2,936    2,4g    3m             ,3.,     C;M         1w
I)Bb  - apVoa   totAl loan.
(U7 lb 9,,78W,0) 3/                    46 A63 756 1,W    74a  U&                                                     1.4  W&p LaU -0 -L                                                           - _ -               -Z
TSUIscom"iL                                                                                            _lA    as- 26Wu  L7A               2 h  a  i    iw4W  L    am    1.        o   b 1   1UK -
Lea    - 1.0 cast  oeta  G            1,0a6     1,332    1,64o   1,852    1,976    2,056    2,09L         2,124    2,124    2il-24    2,124    2,121L       2,12i   2,121    2,121    2,12        2,11.    2,2        21       3I
paym^ens        t          plc
a"  bs m                                 -        -         -         -       I -        -         -         -        -                   -          53       107      427       737    1,01      1,M       1,7w0    ,g3       2,0rr
hka"a.                             -             6        a7        27        31       47    5*            74        74       76       137      2a          299     2S        )a        2n        3DS       2        2
608-t_                                       6        2a       27        31        47        53       74        74        78      137       352        W        726    1 03      u    1.hJ 1.!6 A!               2 
TSUl receipts                  1.00      L,       1.f       1 879    2On        2103      .151     2,1         96 I" .          2,261    2,176       2,530   2,650    3,14       3,        3, MI     4,163    i t IN
Year-end bala   e                      '634      * 556    + 95     *1,123    ' 126    * 645    ' 693    ' 710    * 740    t S9    -1,093   -1,110    -1,036   - 120    * 2U2             * 9       * 510   *1.124   '1,4    A,M
Cm1Uat     buca            .              834.   '1,392   42,339   '3,462 *3,088 *4,533   '5,026   '5,706   .6,506  *7,105   .6,0122  *,,$0                 '3,866   '3,144   '3,366    4,339   4A61s,  .5, 03 *1.7M    .U, 40
aOg43   bt          Tolncco Cepita A.ccOZta rufl*cta epmitars on ttba replcamo  t of 1l  sooporatil_ as*-* and4 trmrs' barne far b2th p:a-project *ceett and those  reqelj8 uder Ike p1036t, 1.e. we toa *1 ple&OM
Tb acoDrut also  hows tbkk  dditioAl l_n.t,t whicb VoWld be rou ired  oer fit.  ye.ri  197LS78 to p.oved                 d fuml fare mcalYPt p.3ntatlo   at an eet4tla    total mat o  Ur Ski 6,633,0t.  AS _n.  O              m
~1 br.qo ftzl, It   In not bonp  Lnto th  cnsh tlea but tkb table 4645e tact  tait  meld be done it me overall ±EI f..                           Debt  srioviexpenditure coam.   coperetive laws required u6d. =    Wejeet (teal
ft 68,281,00) repejibll.  to 003 and esticted U ab 1,500,00  '-a Imre  'ow p-project amets to be  taan wve' and r0epaable t4ON kbmrnUt   Th*                     4osammt re-eipts rover. mcrn  az64 repaymo   for both pee-pomajar .W
project  opentions, but oes not lnclude the baotfit of interest earned on surpl.s balmncis -.aloh  ould r.,tInr tmprm. tti postlion.
UrWieted cost at U   50 lbC/- plus 10% ootingavcies per emoalypt aL.-, p1mtaoc                                                                                        on 2.-a'Ypt a-re as  bsh r.a   ,s-,n.-  -:  *hey wr:  prot     bc  .7 :.e trt;  l^ae  rofrest Or   and  1 d   405  a   t   -  I
4eeets o*.nd by respective 5tions.
2/ 4thaw. replacment of pre-ors;ect imetm.ts of  . SD 200,1   -. .97L,  .'t,I . a r. 1,56 *.7                    :    1:.,/ C[r :- .;e .   ,anr rof      sren   0   O'     e ttled,s ,Ae :n the pr,e.t pr-1od.
3/ Interest at 83 per   tnc   repq nt by 1C year annu 'ty artar . years' C- Ce,
I!-    t at 4  pe rmnu-  -sp.ymnt by five-y-ar n.noty ate,r tao years  gr-s.
h hepay_nt of *cah    f-.r               by l-mr ..-'ry a. 6$ interest per                   sawr ?.- ' *--.. Sr. iCe   _t *tT  r;a   1-..f-., orM :^it ;rposo. *r-m  s.-.:.,
1/A/7D



-     A .1
1970/3   _27V/2   .9?1<3 i   ,',73/_   3;S      9L7596   19n6i'  1377/ 8 327k;   I;7;,"3J  36C/:   ,_._    22              a.    1...,        i376 5   .i6 '7_    7,8         .    £;S,,'y.
80810  173                                                                 .oa3 Loan.
I.o.u  - >            5,e.81.    7,603    5,233    6,,2.   28,17
- 0,n..es                      2,625    2,5                379      8,6
kb-total                      U.,..38    9,861    6,716    6.223   36,2,6
k>rroe_re - I:nterest
V/  Brn r sIm                (d)        63       153      2.e       311      260      231       1.67     13l        W        L5
1/  Sesoula c Mp  l          (1.5)      20        48       83      LL.       113      103       86        55        24        8
V   Oooperttve  la.st.eots(6f)         139       341      .2      4L77       -        -                  _         _
2/  Tobacco storg            (a)       -          88      176      26. 
Skib - to to 1                   222      630       936    1.165       393      332.      251      156       73        23
coe-r* - epannta
I/  kam  lozs                           -        _        317      766    1,241    1,617    1,61?    1,301         851      37T       _        _
I/  9..zrel crop  le                    -        -        -         -_       -         2146     475      726       781      1077
Vi   Oopersti  ir*tant  3/                                                 I _    _  1,16    1,126    1,126    1,126    1,126    1,126    1,1L26    1,L26    1,126    1,126  -       -
V    Tobcc tO rup 4/                   _         _        _                  497       97      4197     _.S7        97      IS        19       17        c.97     497       1.7      4         4W7       4.7        7       197
Sub-total                       -         _         317      766    2 864    3,486    3,715    3 650    3,255    2,0         1623    1,623    1 623    1.623        4197       497       497      In      J#7        1.97
kBrroors - Txat.ior
Oorporet1oo tar 5/                 5A         62       83      137       158      142       122      1041      100      100      100       100       100      100       100      100 100 100                  1O 1D
Perwonl tax 6J e                             -        -        -          12       30        So       70        70       70       70        70       70        70        70       70        70        70       70        70
rt  dkty -a 0            t4   V   266 7      26 6 2 66  266    266       266      26        266      266       fi-      266      266       2d       266       VA        VA       266       266      286      _66        U6
Deb-tOtAl                        320      326       349      403       .36      438       13       440     4136       1.36     b36        1.6     436       436       436      436       k         1        k         1h6
?obeceo Capitatl .cevmt - Prn3jt    172          149      822    1.123      -179        1S       32       45        45       -96      412       30         9       -147    1          1.27     6         2,        6
e? it._
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A2W                        12152 U_.L_ 9D .3 3514  4.26S    4.436    4c29S    3.110S    2TM7  X977   _2,0tS    2.153    2AC12                     2,lJl.                l         157; 2,l 2625 3.;t
km                                   1,01.    2,218    2,393    1,882                  - _   _   _
_eeWm   Cs7p I1n -.41                            703      872       758      -         -        -         _        _         _        _         _
OOpet.iYS Inve.mu                    k,61.7    2,059      912       666      -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -
OOPUeretive   m                         225      25       285       265      -         -        -         _        _         _        _         _
tj.et adm28atetsanfiiosr,       " _  2,065       263       9?       179      479        64       37        61        S       479      105        15       47        n       1.92       54         7       19
ho-et        g-at                     L,8B6    2,103    2,180    2,253    2,000    1,967    1,661    1,507    1,1.52    1,162    1.1.52    1,452    1,4.52    1,452    1,1.52    1,1.52    1,.52    1,1.52    1,Id        1,162
lb&cc  ~teP                             -      2,2X       -       2,20                 -             -         -        -         -        -
Tcdmnal assistance                      SW                -         --        -                           --
; 8b-totl                     1-..35    9,861    66        8223    2,479        31    1.696    1,         1,460    *1    1,557    1,467   1j f           1.171       I       1,1      1.45      1.17I ?n .52    1 2
Debt isevice - 1k  ervic c arp          33       95      143       186      210       210       210      210      210       210      208       206      204       202       199       n7       195       193      9n       1?9
ML reayment             -        -        -         -         -        -        -         -        -         -        200       260      280       280       260      20D       20        260   3    0       260
sb-10ta1                         133      9S        143      186       210       210      210      20 2      10       210       wi8                  4         26 bk  4112  49  477    -75         473 .n            -f  9
10lo9 JhLIca1W               S             95 6 6,859                2 2689    2211.   1908    1778    1,670    2141   2X  4                              1, 953    1.963    1 S87    L S 3b 7            I-M       IAM
ns bUml vz                              .1330'  .9,8r   o T          *2~~   *Z,~.1~3!~   .62jf *1XIW *       r     lo                                                -ui       -57 -33    41S               *TW *     e
5.UYIYI                         .681   .2,013   .4,2%    .7,675   *8,390  .30,418  .12,946  .15,459  .17,598   18,227  .18,159   18,295  .18,465  *18,521  .18,379  .17,802  .17,439  *17,629  *16,331  *19,P95
Wt- 
V  RI *Vwbla   R.
2/ Receivable frm Mi
I V la y_r sIty vith Interest at 6%, 1.e. MD  _e 2% margin wer 8% interet paid 1  To?cco Ctpitl Accoant
%i 1' 16  Year a-1y  in Yer  fo OIng fill dra ee6 , interest at 8%
/ orporston tax increment taken .t 60% f total opertion cowputatcon
6/ eremri taxz lrrnt takm at an averag. of U Sb 15/- on 4,700 farmers
V ?ax at V Lb L33 per kgrf incremenatal tobacco ooId f- local manfacture (200,000 kg per anonu)
3/30/70



UGANDA
SWALIOLDER TOM&C9 PRDJECT
TOBACCO YIE aS 
(kg)
1970/1      1971/2        1972/3        1973A        1974/5        1975/6        1976/7        1977/8
I.   INCREMENTAL YIELDS
West Nile           166,500       346,500      616,500       616,500       616,500      616,500       616,500       616,500
Middle North         87,860      483,370       873,580    1,402,680    1,726,460    1,858,460    1,955,610    2,015,060
Kigezi               15,180       70,930       126,680       182,180       223,680      2236,180      244,930       248,680
Total         269,5)40      900,800    1,616,760    2,201,360    2,566,6)40    2,711,1)40    2,817,0s40    2,880,2140
II. TOTAL YIELDS
West Nile         1,800,000    1,980,000    2,250,000    2,250,000    2,250,000    2,250,000    2,250,000    2,250,000
Middle North        773,000    1,168,000    1,611,000    2,087,000    2,412,000    2,544,000    2,544,000    2,700,000
Kigezi              126,000      182,000       238,000       29)4,000      335,000      3)47,000      356,000       360,000
2,699,000    3,330,000    4,099,000    L,631,000    4,997,000    5,141,000    5,150,000    5,310,000
1/ Yields assumed are:
for West Nile:                   Each year       450 kg per acre
for Middle North and Kigezi:   First year        230 kg per acre
Second year      300 kg per acre
Third year      350 kg per acre
Fourth year      400 kg per acre
Fifth year      450 kg per acre
2/  incremental yields include yields from incremental acres for all areas and for Middle North
and Yigezi yields in excess of present level of 230 kg per acre on existing planted acres.
3/3?., J-



ANNEXk15
U G A N D A
sMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
PRICE CALCULATION FOR FLUE-CURED TOBACCO
(U shkAg)
INTERNATIONAL
TYPES OF COST                      MALRKET
1.  Estimated long-termadr weight
price fob Mombasa (Sh 4.39/lb)               9.68 -
2.  Green weight price equivalent                  8.42
3. Estimated green weight price
equivalent of tobacco sold to                                               2/
BAT (Sh 3.40/lb)                               --
4. Cost between Kampala and Mombasa
Processing (Sh O.40/lb)          0.88                        --
Packing material                 0.44                        --
Transport:  to rail in Kampala  0.18                         --
to Mombasa          0.17                        --
Port charges                     0.12                        --
Various charges in Mombasa       0.07                        --
Export commission                0.39                        --
(4% of Sh 9.68)
TOTAL              2.25                        --
5.  Costs incurred by PMB
Classification fee               0.15                      o.15
Storage up-country               0.01                      0.01
Loading                          0.05                      0.05
Transport to Kampala             0.13                      0.13
Storage and handling in Kampala 0.08                       o.oB
Interest on crop finance         0.11                      0.11
PMB overheads                    0.25                      0.25
TOTAL              0.78                      0.78
Surplus on local market price            --                      1.33
TOTAL                    3.03                      2.11
6.  AVAILABLE AT UNION LEVEL                       5.39                      5.39
7. Charges to Union and Societies      Middle North and West Nile
Operating Charges                      0.26                      O.4
Cess                                  O°1 4°°  O
TOTAL CESSES              o.66                      0.86
8.  PRICE TO THE FARMER (before repayment of production
and barn loans)          4.73                      b.53 3/
Actual price in1969:_ USh 11.15-.
i/ Actual price in 1969: U Sh 7.59.
3/ See Note 9, Annex 7.
3/30/70.






ANNEX 16
Page 1
UGANDA
SMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
TOBACCO MARKETING PROSPECTS
1.        Tobacco production, consumption and trade have been expanding in
the past decade. From 1955-57 to 1965-67, world production, excluding
Mainland China, increased at a yearly rate of about 68,000 metric tons
(2.9%) and reached 3.9 million tons in 1965-67 (Table 1). In the same pe-
riod world exports expanded by a yearly average of nearly 22,000 tons (2.7%)
amounting to nearly 1.0 million tons in 1965-67 (Table 1). Tobacco stocks,
which had been accumulating before the Rhodesian embargo, declined in recent
years. Another consequence of the embargo was a sharp increase in 1966 of
prices for flue-cured tobacco, the major leaf type exported from Rhodesia.
2.        Developing countries experienced the largest growth in production
and exports, and output in these countries almost reached the levels of de-
veloped countries in 1965-67. Output and export expansion in these coun-
tries was almost entirely due to increases in production and trade of flue-
cured and burley tobaccos. Favorable prices encouraged area expansion and
yield improvement. Other factors included:
(a) rising world demand for blended cigarettes;
(b) increased U.S. tobacco prices which reduced
competitive position of that country;
(c) preferential arrangements for certain sup-
pliers;
(d) ample supply of low-cost labor; and
(e) higher net returns per acre from tobacco than
can be obtained from other competing crops.
The sudden curtailment of world market supply through the Rhodesian embargo
provided a further inducement to step up flue-cured production.
3.        Tobacco has been classified among the commodities of moderate or
slight price instability, which is explained by three main factors:
(a) favorable long-term consuumption factors sustained
demand for raw leaf;
(b) owing to the large share of U.S. tobacco in world
trade, this country's price stabilization policy
has had a stabilizing effect on the world market;
and



ANNEX 16
Page 2
(c) a large proportion of international transactions is
carried out under Government programs and bilateral
agreements.
4.        About 50% of world tobacco exports consist of cigarette leaf (flue-
cured and burley), 30% of oriental leaf and the remainder is mainly cigar and
pipe tobacco. In the past, major expansion in the tobacco trade has taken
place in cigarette leaf. This tendency is expected to continue in the future.
5.        Flue-cured tobacco production expanded by 2.2% yearly from the mid-
1950's until the Rhodesian embargo in 1965. Exports increased by 2.7% year-
ly. In 1966, they declined sharply (Table 2) but gradually began to rise
again in subsequent years. The United States is by far the major flue-cured
tobacco exporter and accounted for more than half of world exports in 1968.
6.        Export prices for U.S. flue-cured tobacco rose steadily during the
1960's, while prices for Canadian and Indian flue-cured tobacco fluctuated
but did not increase until 1965 (the Rhodesian embargo). After 1965, they
also increased. The situation is illustrated in Chart I. Rhodesian Lfb_ co
export prices declined sharply in 1964, because of an exceptionally large
output. Prices continued to decline after the 1965 embargo, but official es-
timates are not available.
7.        The most remarkable feature of the world tobacco economy during
the past decade has been the consumption of cigarettes. Cigarettes contain
a large percentage of flue-cured tobacco. In the United States, for exam-
ple, flue-cured tobacco accounts for nearly 50% of the total tobacco con-
tent. In the United Kingdom cigarettes contain only flue-cured tobacco.
As shown in Table 3, consumption increased by nearly 50% since the second
half of the 1950's.
8.        The publication of medical reports on the relationship between
cigarette smoking and health has not yet resulted in any permanent decrease
in cigarette smoking, either in the developed or in the developing coun-
tries, although consumption in the United States in 1968 and 1969 did not
increase. However, these reports have helped to stimulate a tendency to-
ward filter-tipped cigarettes, which at present meet about half of the
world market demand, excluding that in the centrally planned countries.
Another effect has been the rapidly growing demand for low-nicotine and
low-tar content cigarettes, which has become and will probably remain a
decisive factor in the purchasing of manufacturers.
3.        World tobacco demand is expected to contineu at past growth rates
of about 2.0% per year. Light high-quality leaf with low-nicotine content
will be in particular demand. Growth rates in developed countries (about
2X) will be below those in developing countries (2.3 to 2.6%). Since out-
put is expected to increase at similar rates, demand and supply in the mid-
1970's should be in equilibrium unless Rhodesia enters the world market at
past high levels. In that case, there would be an oversupply with an ad-
verse effect on prices.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
10.       It is difficult to forecast trends in the international tobacco
trade because of the unsettled Rhodesian situation. Sanctions against that
country have provided a number of developing countries with the opportunity
to enter the international flue-cured tobacco market. Continued sanctions
would soon eliminate Rhodesia's chances of gaining her former position as a
major supplier of the world market, since competition from other exporters
would bee too strong to allow Rhodesia easy market access, unless Rhodesia
drastically reduced her export prices.
11.       In view of the expected supply and demand situation described
earlier, world tobacco prices are expected to remain stable at recent
levels. This forecast assumes that exports from other developing coun-
tries will partially replace past Rhodesia exports, and that Rhodesia
will not re-enter international markets at past high export levels.
12.       Within this framework, increased exports from Uganda as presently
anticipated, are unlikely to adversely affect world market prices. The
country is a relatively small producer of flue-cured tobacco and contributes
less than 0.4% of world exports of unmanufactured cigarette tobacco. The
expected expansion in production resulting from the project would not have a
significant effect on either world supply or prices. Moreover, it is to be
expected that Uganda, as a member of the Commonwealth, would continue to be-
nefit from preferences in the U.K. markets. Currently, the U.K. takes about
90% of Uganda's total exports of unmanufactured tobacco.






ANNEX 16
Table 1: WORLD PRODUCTION AND E XPORTS
OF UNMANUFACTURED TOBACCO
1955-57 AND 1965-67
Production          _Exsports
Yearly                      ToYarly
1955-57  1965-67  percent  1955-57  1965-67 percent
(1,000 m. tons)             (1,000 m. tons)
Developed Countries    1,612    1,713      0.6        h19      475    1.3
Developing Countries   1,212    1,680      3.3        229      333     3.8
Africa                 11&2     21h      4.2         82       98     1.8
Tanzania               2.2       6.1  10.7          0.3      2.7  25.0
Cezitrally Planned
Countries excluding
Mainland China         41h       528     2.5         57      113     7.1
World Production       3,238    3,921      1.9        705      921     2.7
Soulrce:  FAO, Review Of Trends and Problems in the World Tobacco Economy.
1969.



Table 2: WORLD EXPORTS OF FLUE-CURED TOBACCO,
EXCUDING CENTRALLY PLNNED COUNTRIES
EXPORT PRICES
AVERAGE 1955-59 AND ANNUAL 1960-68
Rhodesia                                          Rhodesia
United   Zambia                                   United   Zambia
States   Malawi   India  Canada  Others  Total   States   Malawi    India  Canada
............ thousand metric tons ...........     ...... . .cents per pound... . . .. )
Average:
1955-59           187        57       35     16      15     310      71.1     57.6      32.2   61.3
1960              186         75      29     16      14     320      77.2     57.1      36.6   71.1
1961              183        83       31     17      16     330      79.4     59.2      32.0   72.9
1962              170        86       55     21      20     352      80.9     5h.8      30.6   67.1
1963              183        82       52    '16      23     356      82.1     63.3      36.1   71.6
1964              180       101       62     22      27     392      82.2     49.1      31.3   67.5
1965              159       120       52     18      34     383      85.1     49.4      36.3   78.9
1966              192        33 1/   28      16      53     322     92.3      43.0 1    39.3   95.0
1967              193        32 1   t6       20      49     3h0     94.3      43.0 v    39.7  103.7
1968              201        29 V   41       21      55     34?     96.0      45.0    144.3  107.0
1/ Estimates.
Source: U. S. Department of Agriculture
, 3H



ANNEX 16
TABLE 3
Table 3: ESTIMATED OUTPUT OF CIGARETTES
(millions of pieces)
Yearly
Average      Actual          Percent
1960-64       1968         Increase
Developed Countries                     1,229,451     1,470,500          3.0
Developing Countries                      442,847       575,118         4.5
Africa                                 58,183        71,492          3.5
Centrally Planned Countries
incl. Mainland China                    708,916       926,659         4.6
World Total.                            2,381214       2,972,277         3.8
Source: US Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agriculture Circular,
September 1969.






ANNEX 16
CHART I
AVERAGE EXPORT PRICES OF FLUE-CURED TOBACCO,
PRINCIPAL COUNTRIES, 1955-59 AVERAGE AND 1960 TO 1968
(U.S. CENTS PER POUND)
1101 Ii                                                             , Ioc
CAN ADA
I100             -4-            -     !      -                     '            -          0
90offi                                                                                  90
80                                _  80
70    75                  ' wsy70
UGANDA
60                                                                                      6
60 ..... ........  -  *  / ..                                    A                  6
RHODESIA ,ZAMBIAA.                        I /
50                                            . .........50
40 ______   v                  t             t                   _-                    [ 40
/;,INDIA
30                                                                                      30
1955-59       1960   1961  1962  1963  1964  1965   1966  1967  1968  1969   1970
(AVERAGE)
IB3RD-4870 (2R)






ANNEX 17
Page 1
UGANDA
SMALLHOLDER TOBACCO PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
1.        Project Life
Tobacco barns have an approximate life of 15 years, consequently
the last barns built under the project would have to be replaced some 20
years after commencement of the project. As barns represent the main in-
vestment in the project, a 20 year project life has been assumed. The
costs of replacing barns in the last five years of the project have been
included in the calculation. A sensitivity analysis shows the rate of re-
turn if the project was terminated after 10 years.
2.        Costs
(i) On farm development
In the calculation, only the cash costs of barn construction are
taken into account, and thus the value of farmers' labor is excluded, see
para. 2(iv). Farm investment and annual costs are shown in the farm budget
at Annex 7. The cost of tractor hire is subsidized by Government and 52%
of the cost is shown in the farm budget, and the remaining 48% as a separate
item in Table 1. Full tractor hire costs are used in the rate of return cal-
culation.
(ii) Cooperative and Union Developments (Investment and
Operating Costs)
Details of investment costs are given in Annex 4 under the headings
Cooperative Investments and Cooperative Management, and those of operating
costs in Annex 8. The costs in Annex 8 are those of all tobacco cooperative
activity and have been apportioned on the basis of production figures in An-
nex 14 to establish the costs applicable to the project.
(iii) ProJect Administration (Investment and Operating Costs)
Investments costs are detailed in Annex 4 under Project Administra-
tion Investments and Project Management. The operating costs given in Annex
13 have been apportioned between project and other production costs on the
basis of the data in Annex 14.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
(iv) On Farm Labor
It is estimated that 89.2 man-days are required to grow one acre of
tobacco, excluding land preparation which is covered by the charge for tractor
hire service, and that another 24 man-days are required in the first year of
operation for barn building. These figures do not include seed bed prepara-
tion and fuel wood planting which are carried out by the cooperatives and in-
cluded in their costs, see Annex 4.
3.        Benefits
Incremental benefits have been calculated by multiplying the in-
cremental production given in Annex 14, by a tobacco price of U Sli 5.39/kg
which is estimated as the price available at Union level (see Annex 15).
4.        Investment in Tobacco Storage and Technical Assistance
The costs of new tobacco storage and technical assistance in pro-
ject preparation (see Annex 4) are excluded from the economic rate of return
calculation:
Mi) Tobacco Storage
In developing the tobacco price at Union level, a storage charge
of U Sh 0.08/kg is taken into account; this allows for the amortization of
investment in new storage.
(ii) Technical Assistance
A return on this item is not quantifiable, thus the costs of such
assistance have been excluded from the economic rate of return calculation.



SHALLHOLDOR TOSACCQ PROJECT                              J<r    7.    -           :
ECOONOIC RATE OF RETUlRN
(U Sh I000)
1970/71      1971/72      1972/73       1973/74      1974/75       1975/76       1976/77        19 77278       1978/79      1979/80             'Toal
A. On-farm Developments
Barm con.truction and extension      1,58h        2,248        3,373         1, M3                                                                                                    2,o8
First year inputs                      455          652          808            703
Subtotal        -2139         2,790        Z=1 1771
Operating Costs                        -            h82        1,229         1,167         3,022        3,124         3,143          3,a151         3, 15L        3,15h              31,5L0
Tractor Hire Service Subsidy       1_.0             351          6)8           869           911          913           913            M13            913           913               9 130
Subtotal           lh           oY37       T7                          3,921        Z757 F 7       O56           L.S57                        |:?RS7             Lt 67 
Total on fara Develo7-&ant          T7;T           77         F;IT 2S ri; 1i7T                          -___
B.  Cooperative and Union Developrents
Investment and replacenment          h,607        2,059          912           666           lh5          -             -             -                                                 523
Operatlng costs                      1 032        1 263        1 L94         1502          1 337        1 337        1337           1,337           1,337        1 337              13,370
Subtotal                                                               fL                         _ 1       3 _7 I,337 l3                                    ,1
C. Project Ad.inistration
Investment and replacennt            2,085          263           94           179           h79           6b            37             61              8           479                  765
H and Field Staff, Training          1 8L6         2  103       2 lgO         2 253        2 100        1 967         1 661          1 507           1.452        1,452              ILS20
Subtotal          i                         it7 t77 3T w                                                                         -r             i31 1Jt
Tot4l costs without on-farm labor 11.789         $.!aI        10.,698        9,221         7.884        7.405         7.091          6.972           6,864        7.33571.9
D. On-farm labor                       278          617        1.026          1.351        1260          1.260        1.260          1,260           1.260         1.260              12,600
TOTAL CosTS             12, 6        10, 038      11,724         10,572         91144        8.665         8,351         8,232                         8.595
t/   l / s    z1     1R
I.  Incersental Benefits             1,453       4, 855        8,714        11,865        13,834       14,613        15,184         15,524         15,524        15,524             155,2LO
F. Net Benefits
On-farm  labor excluded       (10,336)    (4566)         (lr84)        2,644         5,950        7,208         8,093          8,552           8,660        8,189              83,316
On-farm labor included        (10,614)    (5183)         (31l0)        1,293         4,690        5,948         6,833          7,292           7,400        6,929               79,746
0.    onomic Rates of Return                If       c  life is comleted by 1989190 and onfarm'labort                 If project life acomleted by 1979/80 and onare labors
excuded                   included                                            txclfddicue
*ull price (USh 5.39Ag)                       26.57                                                                            20.71                      14. M
20% decrease in output value                  21.21                        10.98                                               13387                       6.89
20% dcrease in output value                   15.63                        10 17                                                6.43                       1.38
Ourrent price (US  6.67/kg)                   39.1l                        33.62                                               35.53                      29.19






UGANDA
SNALUOLDER OBACOD PROJECT
STDIAT'TD DISBURSDIKT SCHIDUL OF IDA CREDIT
Tear blhing Jme 30                         1971                1972               1973                1971               Total               ESS Malent
Oa-far Investment
Bae  construction                       1,289               1,829              1,930               1,531               6,579                    937
First year input                          380                 544                676                 587               2,187                    312
Cooperative In matnent                    3,345               1,483                657                 479               5,964                    850
C2o2erative XMw!e&nt                        285                 285                285                 285               1,1140                   163
Project Adinistratiou Inveatmente
Rouses                                 115127                 139                 51                  95                1,1412                  202
Vehicles                                  521                  69                 23                  87                  660                     94
Project NEca.einet                        1,373               1,563              1,620               1,675               6,231                    887
Tobaco Storage                                -               1,700                  -               1,700                3,400                   484
Technical Assistance                        500                   -                  -                   -                  500                    71
TVTLL U Sh                            8.819              7.613               5,42               6,399               28.073                  4.000
US$ ('000)                      1.250              10-87                 7A9                91l                i 000
11draida balance at the begimning
of tbgywa  (US$ 1000)                   4.00                  750                                    911.6






7                                   A? H  g  A  \
MBARAiA~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BL
/ \ ~~~~~~~A                                             t            VI    TO    I
r               <N  ,' <Af                                   N          Z           A            N                                       ,:
N~~~~~~
NOVEMBERIBD20



