Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
i                          7L  ~~~~~Zoc Z-C -rv
Report No. 7606-GUB
STAFF APPRAI3AL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
APRIL 19, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
TWs document has a resticted dibution and may be used by recipients only In the performane of
their offlcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authozadIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1988)
Currency Unit     -     GB Peso
US$1.00           -     GB Pesos 1,370
Pesos 1 Million   -     US$730
MEASURES
im            1.09 yd
lsq km   -    0.38 sq. mile
lha      -    2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB     African Development Bank
BNGB     Central Bank of Guinea Bissau
DGEP     Directorate General of Roads and Bridges
DGHU     Directorate General of Housing and Urban Affairs
EEC      European Economic Community
GOGB     Government of Guinea-Bissau
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INDE     National Institute for Educational Development
INEP     National Institute for Studies and Research
ITFP     Technical Institute for Vocational Training
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
LIB      Limited International Bidding
ME       Ministry of Education
MES      Ministry of Social Infrastructure
MFPT     Ministry of Public Function and Labor
MINSAP   Ministry of Public Health
HP       Ministry of Planning
MU       Management Unit
NGO      Non-Government Organization
PHN      Population, Health and Nutrition (Project)
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PPU      Project Preparation Unit
SAP      Structural Adjustment Program
SDA      Social Dimension of Adjustment
SEPAECI State Secretariat for Economic Affairs and International
Cooperation
SIDA     Swedish International Development Authority
SIRP     Social and Infrastructure Relief Project
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
TO       Technical Office
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
WHO      World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31



FOR omCUL USE ONLY
RDPUBLIC OF GUINEA BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASRUCTORB RBLIEF PROJEC?
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .................................    iii
I.   PROJECT BACKGROUND .........    ............................  1
A.   Introduction .........     ............................  1
B.   Addressing the Social Costs of Adjustment   ........   2
C.   Criteria for the Selection of Project Components .     3
D.   Rationale for Association Involvement.                 4
II. THE PROJECT.                                                  4
A. Project Objectives.                                      4
B. Project Description.                                     4
C.   Project Costs and Financing Plan.                      7
III. PROJECT IHPLEMENTATION        ..                             9
A.   Institutional Arrangements ......    .................  9
B.   Action Plan .............   .........................    10
C.   Procurement .............   .........................    11
D.   Disbursement ............   .........................    12
E.   Accounting and Auditing .......    ...................    13
F.   Contractual Services, Technical Assistance and
Training .............. .........................    14
IV.  JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS, RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT     14
A.   Project Justification ......     ......................    14
B.   Project Benefits ........     .........................    15
C.   Project Risks .........     ...........................    15
D.   Environmental Impact .......     ......................    16
V.   AGREXMENT, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....   ..........    16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Guinea-3issau in November 1988. The mission consisted of
Messrs./Mmes. Cesar Queiroz (mission leader), Peter Morris, Carol Hoppy.
and Leonardo Concepcion; and Diane Marleau and Lubomir Dunin (Consultants).
The mission was assisted and advised by Messrs. John Ijichi, Felix Jakob
and Alexandre Marc, and Ms. Anita Artaza. The report was typed by Mmes.
Nga Nguyen, Hanni Najar and L. Moreira, and Mr. Gabriel Legault.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodzation.



- ii -
ANNEXS
1.    Living Conditions in Guinea-Bissau
2.    Infrastructure Component
3.    Site Development for Low-Cost Housing
4.   Education Component
5.    Health Component
6.    Strengthening of the Re-Orientation Unit
7.    Social Dimensions of Adjustment
8.    Technical Assistance
9.    Detailed Cost Estimates
10.   Implementation Schedule
11,  Procurement Arrangements
12.  Disbursement Schedule
13.   Economic Analysis
14.   Selected Documents in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD Nos. 21192 and 21193



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRICTURE RELIEF PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers              Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Beneticieries:         Miuistries of Social Infrastructure; Planning;
Public Health; Education, and Public
Administration, and Labor.
Amount:                 SDR 3.85 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Termss                  Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Description:   The Project will generate employment through the
following components: (a) Infrastructure including
maintenance of roads and drainage networks in urban
areas; repair and maintenance of urban and rural
community facilities including health facilities,
primary and secondary schools and markets; and
improvement of sanitary conditions including
repairs to sewerage systems and water supply
networks; (b) Site Development for low-cost urban
housing; Cc) Education including basic teaching
aids, class-room furniture; and materialslutensils
for the school meal program in Bissau; (d) Health
including essential drugs and medical supplies;
educational materials, supplies and technical
support for a program to train health care workers
in prescribing and dispensing drugs; support for
the AIDS campaign and assistance to the National
Blood Donor Bank; and provision of furniture,
supplies and equipment for those health facilities
to be rehabilitated under the Project; (e)
Reorientation Program involving a data bank to
provide information on employment opportunities
generated under the Project for redundant civil
servants and the unemployed, and training and basic
equipment to assist redundant civil servants in
starting micro businesses. The Project will also
entail monitoring and evaluating the social impact
of the SAP through a series of socio-economic
studies; and providing technical assistance,
including training, to strengthen the Government's
executing capacity in the implementing Ministries.
Benefits:               The Project will help generate, directly or
indirectly, some 2,050 man-years of employment over
the 1990-93 Project implementation period. Project
benefits would include rehabilitation and



- iv -
maintenance of urban and social infrastructure
which will lead to improved overall sanitary and
environmental conditions, an expanded supply of
sites and serv'ces for low-cost housing, increased
quality of delivery of health and education
services, and job placement opportunities for
redundant civil servants. The employment
opportunities generated under the proposed Project
will be sustained through a proposed upcoming
labor-intensive Infrastructure Relief Project
expected to be implemented over 1990-95.
Riskss                  The main risks are that: (i) the implementation
capability of the executing agencies may be
overtaxed in the short run, leading to
implementation delays and difficulties in
supervision and financial control; (ii) the
Government may find it difficult to provide local
counterpart funding on a timely basis; and (iii)
the urgency for employment generation could
increase the possibility that some project
components may not be properly appraised. However,
the Management Unit (MU) under the Ministry of
Planning has already hirAd a competent Project
Coordinator, and is in the process of recruiting
other key officers to alleviate the problem of weak
implementation capacity. The opening of a project
account for counterpart funds with payments wr4e in
advance--the first quarterly contribution being a
condition of effectiveness--will establish an
administrative system to ensure i iely allocation
of the Government's contributio... So the Project.
Furthermore, counterpart funding needs would be
considered in the Public Expenditure Program which
will be reviewed on an annual basis under the
Structural Adjustment Credit. Evaluation of
subprojects would be done by consultants and
supervised by the1 MU and periodic IDA supervision
missions.



-~~~~~~~~~- 
Estimated Pro,ect Cost:s
Percent
Local      Foreign      Total       of Base
----  USS thousand -------
Infrastructure Rehabilitation   2,136        5,116        7,252        51I
Site Development                   285         400          685         51
Educational Materials              113         388          500         42
Health Supplies and Equipment        0       1,895        1,895        131
Reorientation Program              200         128          328         22
Monitoring Social Dimensions
of Adjustment                     36          8o          116         12
Technical Assistance/
Training/Studies                 722       2.720        3r442        24Z
Total Project Base Cost          3,491      10,726       14,218       1001
Physical Contingencies           279         858       1,137          8?
Price Contingencies              417       1,228       1,644        ill
Total Project Cost               4,187      12L812       16,999
Financins Plant
Local      Foreign      Total
- USS million -------
IDA                   0.81         4.19        5.00
Government            1.00         0.00        1.00
Cofinanciers          2.39         8.61       11.00
Total               (.20        12.80       17.00
a/ Totals may not add due to rounding. Estimated Project costs
are net of taxes and duties from which the Project would be erempt.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY90     FY91     FY92     PY93
--------- USS million ---------
Annual              0.75      2.00     1.90     0.35
Cummulative         0.75      2.75     4.65     5.00
Economic Rate of        332 for site development and rehabilitation
Returns                of streets and markets (about 261 of the total base
cost). For other components, economic rates of
return are not applicable.
M_pet                   IBRD Nos. 21192 and 21193



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
I.   PROJECT BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01      Guinea-Bissau is a small country on the West African coast with
a population of about 920,000. Vith an estimated 1987 per capita income of
about US$170, the country is among the poorest in the world. The economy
is characterized by a large traditional rural sector, producing primarily
for subsistence. Agriculture, fisheries and forestry account for about 90?
of employment and 50? of GDP. Market output is largely confined to export
crops, primarily cashews, groundnuts, and palm kerne's:t in 1987 cashews
accounted for over 682 of total exports. Rice is the main food crop, the
production of which has steadily increased from 85,000 tons in 1983 to
about 140,000 tons in 1987.
1.02      Following independence in 1974, Guinea-Bissau faced the task of
rebuilding its economy after a protracted liberation war which dislocated
one-fifth of the population, destroyed an important part of the economic
infrastructure, and reduced output of the main crops by over one-third.
Subsequently, the economy suffered a severe decline because of Government
mismanagement, including an ambitious public investment program, financed
mainly by external borrowing, inappropriate pricing policies, and an
inefficient marketing system. Between 1980 and 1982, the external
situation was further aggravated by exogenous factors such as drought and
depressed world market prices for the country's main exports. In 1983, in
the face of a deteriorating economy, the Government implemented a recovery
program with support from the IMF and the World Bank. However, due to a
sharp drop ia the prices of the country's major exports, delays in
ivnlementing institutional reforms and inability to control the fiscal
de.icit, the adjustment process lost momentum and was halted in 1985.
1.03      In late 1986, the Government embarked on a comprehensive medium-
term Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in close co-operation with the
World Bank and IMF. This program established medium-term economic and
financial objectives, and included policies designed to achieve these
objectives during the first phase of the adjustment program, 1987-89.
During this first phase the Government concentrated on: (i) developing of
incentives through economic liberalization; and (ii) achieving economic and
financial balance through fiscal restraint an! prudent monetary policy.
The results so far have been impressive: GDP grew by between 4 and 6? per
year in 1987 and 1988, export growth averaged over 202 per year in real
terms, private consumption grew substantially in 1987 and 1988, and the
current budget deficit has declined markedly compared to previous years.
The Government also made payments on its arrears, and rescheduled some of
its medium and long-term debt.
1.04      The initial success of the SAP should place the country in a
position to achieve self-sustained growth over the longer term. Guinea-



- 2 -
Bissau's relatively generous natural resource endowment, particularly in
arable land, provides a basis for optimism about the country's long-term
prospects now that major distortions in the system of economic incentives
are being eliminated and the macro-economic balance is being restored.
1.05      The country presently suffers from an extremely dilapidated
urban and social infrastructure. Schools and hospitals are run down and in
need of basic s;ipplies and equipment. There is an acute shortage of low
cost housing, potable drinking water and essential sanitary services.
Basic scho,l and health supplies are lacking, including essential drugs and
medicines for the sick, and support for the ongoing AIDS control campaign.
A training program is needed for health workers prescribing and dispensing
drugs. and the National Blood Bank needs additional assistance. Lastly,
technical support and training are needed to develop small businesses to
assist unemployed men and women who have been laid off due to retrenchment
in the Government and the private sector. The Project is designed to
address only the most urgent of the above needs, with special emphasis on
employment generation.
B. Addressing the Social Costs of Adiustment
1.06      Despite promising medium to long-term growth prospects. the
economy is characterized by wide-spread poverty and economic hardship.
Moreover, the SAP cannot alleviate the hardship of many of the poor and
vulnerable groups in the short run. Indeed, some components of the SAP
have, in the short run, exacerbated the economic problems of certain
vulnerable groups, and this may impede the sustainability of the recovery
program itself. The Project is a response to this set of difficult
conditions. It seeks to address the needs of vulnerable groups who have
not yet benefitted from the SAP, or who have suffered from the earlier
period of economic decline. These groups include low-income and under-
employed urban households, laid-off workers from the public and private
sectors, and small farmers whose productivity is low and who face
unemployment and hardship in the lean season. Among the vulnerable groups,
women and children, particularly, have borne the brunt of prolonged
economic stagnation. Annex 1 gives details of current living conditions in
the country and describes the Proiact's target groups
1.07      The fall in per capita income, the decline in availability of
food, and the extensive erosion of social infrastructure have further
exacerbated the plight of the vulnerable groups mentioned above. Even with
improving economic conditions under the successful implementation of the
SAP, the circumstances of the poor remains acute, and severe constraints
exist on their ability to produce and earn enough to meet their basic
needs. To alleviate this burden, it is essential that productivity be
increased and the economy expanded, and that better health and education be
provided to meet the basic needs of the economy.
1.08      As a result of government austerity, up to 1,500 pcople are
scheduled to be laid off by the end of 1989 as part of the restructuring of
the civil service. Staff would be laid-off in a flexible manner depending
on the availability of funds from the Government's budget to finance the



redundancy package, and the boyancy of the labor market to absorb redundant
staff.   This pool of workers, together with the unemployed would be able
to take advantage of employment opportunities generated by the Social and
Infrastructure Relief Project (SIRP). Temporary employment of this pool of
skilled and semi-skilled workers would ease their economic hardships, and
carry them over until such time as they can be absorbed into the gradually
expand_ig private sector.
1.09      Recognizing that the sustainability of t.e SAP could be
endangered by inadequate attention to the social needs of the country, the
Government has requested that the international community support a project
which would address the transitional costs of implementing the SAP, with
special emphasis on reducing the plight of the poor. Since the
Government's renewed efforts in 1986 to implement the SAP, the donor
community has expressed its willingness to support such a project as
requested by the Government.
1.10      The proposed Project includes components for:  (i) an urban
infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance program; (ii) an education
program, with special emphasis on improving school buildings and providing
supplies for basic educational materials; (iii) a health program, including
the rehabilitation and maintenance of selected primary health care centers
and hospitals, provision of supplemental essential drugs and medical
supplies, and providing support for the AIDS campaign; (iv) a program of
support to the Reorientation Unit, established under the Ministry of Public
Function and Labor, for assisting displaced civil servants and the
unemployed; and (v) technical assistance to implementing Ministries. The
proposed Project Was appraised in November 1988 by an IDA-led mission with
close co-ordination and collaboration in the field with representati'vs of
the United Nations Development Programmne (UNDP), United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF), the World Food Program (WFP), the World Health Organization
(WHO), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA), and support from other bilateral
agencies.
C.   Criteria for the Selection of Pro1ect Components
1.11      Several criteria were used for the selection of Project
components: First, and most important, a strong poverty focus aimed at
benefiting vulnerahle groups, mainly through employment generation.
Second, a high economic and social rate of rettirn. 11 Third, the project
should be implemented easily and quickly, and not strain existing project
implementation capabilities or divert financial or institutional resources
away from ongoing economically or socially productive projects. Fourth,
the project components must be sustainable over the long term and be able
to meet recurrent costs. Finally, project components should benefit the
11 Components for which economic rates of return are not possible to
calculate, were evaluated on the basis of qualitative assessments of
economic and social benefits.



- 4 -
main target groups such as redundant civil servants, the unemployed and the
rural and urban poor.
D.   Rationale for Association Involvement
1.12      The Bank Group, which has extended 12 credits totalling US$111
million equivalent, is by far the largest lender to Guinea-Bissau. Since
the Government renewed its struc..ural adjustment effort in 1986, IDA has
been assisting the Government to develop a special program of assistance to
respond to the urgency for employment generation to meet the basic needs of
the poor and vulnerable groups Who have not yet benefitted from the SAP.
The Association's recent involvement in the health and education sectors,
and earlier involvement in the infrastructure sector 2/ has given it the
experience to act as a catalyst in coordinating donor involvement,
influencing sector policies and supporting institutional development.
Other agencies and donors have indicated their willingness to refocus their
own programs to better support vulnerable groups, given Bank Group
leadership. Improved donor coordination will also iahance the Government's
absorptive capacity and ability to implement such programs.
II.   THE PROJECT
A.   Proiect Objectives
2.01      The overall objective of the ProJect would be to increase income
and employment opportunities among low income and unemployed urban and
rural workers through support of activities having high economic and social
rates of return. The program to be implemented over 1990-93 would focus
on: (a) rehabilitating and maintaining essential urban and social
infrastructure, and improving overall sanitary conditions in urban areas;
(b) relieving the acute shortage of urban housing through the provision of
serviced plots; (c) increasing the efficiency of delivery of education and
health services focussing, in particular, on essential drugs and support
for the AIDS program; (d) facilitating job placement of laid-off civil
servants and other unemployed; (e) collecting data and developing improved
systems for monitoring the social impact of economic policy; and (f)
providing technical assistance to strengthen the Government's executing
capacity.
B.  Proiect Description
2.02      The Project includes the following components:  (i) maintenance
and rehabilitation of urban and social infrastructure; (ii) sites and
services for low-cost housing; (iii) educational supplies, materials and
21 Population Health and Nutrition Project, (Credit 1800-GUB), FY87, US$4.2
million; Basic Education Development Project, (Credit 1914-GUB), FY88,
US$4.3 million; and Roads I and II, and Bissau Port (Credits 878, 1473 and
1392-GUB respectively) totalling US$29 million.



- 5 -
equipment: (iv) provision of health supplies and equipments (v) support to
a reorientation unit for assisting the unemployeds (vi) studies related to
the social dimensions of adjustment; and (vii) technical assistance to
co')rdinate and manage the Project.
Infrastructure
2.03      All sub-projects in this component consist of technically
simple, easily implementable and labor-intensive works. They are designed
to complement efforts already undertaken in these areas by other donors,
such as AfDB. UNDP, UNICEF, EEC, WHO, and the governments of the
Netherlands, France and Sweden. The component is described below, while a
more detailed description is included in Annex 2.
(a) Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Construction in the capital
city of Bissau and other priority cities. This includess (i)
clearing existing and constructing new earth and concrete drainage
works; (Hi) street improvements including repair of pavements,
sidewalks, culverts, and construction of neighborhood access roads;
(iii) repair and minor extension of water supply systems (in centers
other than Bissau); and (iv) sanitation programs including repairs to
sewerage systems of public facilities and water supply networks; and
(b) Rehabilitation of Community Facilities in Bissau, other priority
cities and some rural centers. This includes maintenance and repair
of primary and secondary schools, primary health care facilities,
markets, and other facilities of social and economic importance.
Sites and Services
2.04      This component will be carried out in the Antula neighborhood in
Bissau. Covering an area of about 26 ha, the component will provide about
700 plots with basic road, drainage, water supply, and electrical power
services. The procedures for allocating serviced plots will be defined
after completion of the housing policy study financed under the Project
Preparation Facility Advances for the proposed Infrastructure
Rehabilitatiou Project. Details on sites and services are found in
Annex 3.
Educational Materials, Supplies and Equipment
2.05      This component has been designed to complement the ongoing Basic
Education Development Project (Credit 1914-GUB) and includes: (a) classroom
furniture for the primary and secondary schools to be rehabilitated as part
of the infrastructure component; (b) basic school equipment and teaching
aids; and (c) meal handling equipment and utensils for three pre-primary
schools in Bissau implementing the school food program. Annex 4 provides
details.



- 6-
Health Supplies and EQuipment
2.06      This component includes:  (a) provision of supplemental drugs,
medicines, and medical supplies for health facilities; (b) support for the
AIDS campaign by providing support for the National Blood Donor Bank and
provision of drugs for AIDS-related diseases; and (c) provision of
furniture, equipment and supplies for six identified health facilities.
The health component is summarized below, and details are provided in
Annex 5.
(a)  Su,plemental essential drug supplZ scheme.  This sub-component would
include the provision of drugs, medicines, medical supplies, training
supplies and vehicles, and the assistance of a technical specialist
to organize a training program for the Ministry of Health staff in
handling and operating a supplemental essential drugs program. The
scheme would complement the ongoing drug component of the Population,
Health and Nutrition Project (Cr. 1800-GUB). It would be coordinated
with other programs and implemented under the direction of the
Director of the Central Drug Store with the assistance of a WHO
technical specialist, who is responsible for providing assistance for
drug management in the PHN Project, and UNICEF.
(b) Support for AIDS effort and National Blood Bank. This sub-component
would provide support for expanded and coordinated assistance to the
AIDS program through the provision of drugs for AIDS-related
diseases, and the provision of logistical support, equipment and
supplies to the National Hospital Blood Donor Bank; and
'c) Equipping of health facilities. This sub-component provides
supplies, equipment and furniture for those health facilities to be
rehabilitated under the infrastructure component (para 2.03(b)).
Reorientation Program
2.07      This component consists of support for the Reorientation Unit in
the Ministry of Public Function and Labor (MFPT) to enable it to establish
a data bank on laid-off Government staff and the unemployed with special
emphasis on women and youth, and a roster on available employment, together
with an information dissemination campaign and a training program for
former staff, and provision of basic equipment to assist the trainees in
starting micro businesses. Annex 6 provides details.
Monitoring Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA)
2.08      This component will help the Government to integrate social
policy into the structural adjustment process. A first phase, which will
be implemented through this project, will involve carrying out a set of
socio-economic studies. These studies will include: household living
conditions in Bissau; social assessment of the investment program; an
assessment of the informal sector and of the food security situation;
women's entrepreneurial activities; essessment of the reorientation program
for laid-off civil servants including their employment characteristics and



- 7 -
the extent to which the employment opportunities generated under the
Project meet their employment needs. (Annex 7) provides details.
Technical Assistance
2.09      To ensure expeditious implementation of the Project, consultant
services are required for the following: (a) to fill the positions of a
Project Coordinator (already hired) who would work jointly with a National
Director (local counterpart) to head a Management Unit established in the
Ministry of Planning which would coordinate all operational aspects of the
Project including implementation of the monitoring and evaluation
component. Other consultants would include an Accountant and a Procurem-nt
Specialist (paras 3.02 and 3.03); (b) to fill the positions of a Contra
Specialist, a Supervision Engineer and an Accountant to stkff a Technical
Office established in the Ministry of Social Infrastructure which would
manage and supervise the infrastructure component including the site
development works under the Project (paras 3.04 and 3.05); (c) to fill the
position of a Technical Specialist to help prepare, and implement the
health component and organize a training program for health care workers in
prescr.,bing and dispensing drugs. (Consulting services for the education
component are being provided through the ongoing Basic Education Project
(Cr. 1914-GUB) approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors in June
1988 (para 2.05).
2.10      In addition, as a first phase to be implemented under the
proposed Project, several socio-economic studies, requiring short-term
consultants, will be carried out by the MP to help integrate social policy
into the structural adjustment process (para 2.08). Under the sites and
services sub-component, a survey will be carried out under the MES to
evaluate the impact of this sub-component on present residents of plots in
the Antula neighborhood (para 4.07). Strengthening of the Reorientation
Unit under the MFPT will also require technical assistance to, inter alia,
undertake a study of the employment opportunities in the urban sector
taking into account the structure of the demand for labor, build a data
bank on the supply and demand of employment for laid-off civil servants,
and train the staff of the Reorientation Unit in the use of the data bank
(para 2.07). Annexes 2-8 provide further details.
C. Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
2.11      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$17.0 million
equivalent and the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$12.8
million equivalent, or 751 of total project costs. A summary of project
costs and the financing plan is presented below. Base costs have been
estimated in Guinean pesos at December 1988 prices and converted into US
dollars at US$1 - GP 1,370. Physical contingencies have been estimated at
8Z and price contingencies are based on an estimated foreign cost
escalation rate of 4.4Z per annum for the period 1989-90, and 5.31 for 1991
onwards. The local inflation rate was estimated at 401 in 1989, 142 in
1990 and 8 thereafter. This methodology assumes that exchange rate
fluctuations will automatically adjust for differentials between local and
foreign inflation. Peso equivalents will need to be re-estimated
periodically at prevailing exchange rates. The Project would be
implemented over a three-year period, with an expected completion date of
December 31, 1992. Annex 9 provides detailed cost estimates.



0WIEA SISSAU
SOCIAL AND IFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Coot Summary */
(Base Cost as of DecO"ber 109; Eahang Rate: USI 1 = aB Peso 1,870)
Peront
co"oent                         Local    Foreign    Total        Locl   Foreign   Total  of Be"
(US Dollar 'OD0)              (as Peso *ilion)
InretructuOr. Rehabi IiOtaton
Drinaog  and Urban Roads                    410      1,915      2,825        561    2,624    8,16          51x
Sanitary Iproveoeto a Water Supply          117        861        460        160      460       640          x
Cemeunity Faciltites Rehabiita*tion       1,609      2,.50      4,459      2,204    3,04    6,100          31X
Subtotal Intrastructur Rehabilitataon       2,1W       5,116      7,2t2      2,        7,009    0,95         51i
Site Development                              286        400        a6n        890       540     9on          5X
Educational materials                         11         8an        500        154       581      a6          4X
Health Supplies and Equipment                                                                                                 co
Drugs Suboomponent                            0      1,750      1,750          0     2,89      2,896        12X
AIDS Subomponent                             0         55         56          0        76        76        Ox
Supplies A Eqpumt.for NelIth Centers          0         90         s0          0       128       123         15
Subtotal Health Supplies and Equipmet           0      1.09M      1,896          0    2,569      2,696       1JS
Reorientation Unit                            200        126        820        274       176       449        2x
Social Dim. of AdJuetamnt                      86         sO        116         49       110       150        13
Technical Asistance / Training / Studies      722      2,720      8,442        969    8,726    4,716         24X
Total Project Bse Cost                      8,491    10,726    14,218        4,798    14,605    19,473       100o
Physical Contingencebs                      270        956      1,187        868     1,170    1,556          a
Price Continencies                          417      1,226      1,644      2,681     6,706    11,58
Total Project Cost                          4,167    12,012    160099        7,997   24,657    82,678
-m       smm         m            -       mm        m
------ --------------- - o a  u d   t  roundin
*/ Numbers may not *dd up due to rounding.



2.12      An IDA credit to the Government of Guinea-Bissau of US$5.0
million equivalent would finance 292 of total project cost. The Government
will directly contribute US$1.0 million equivalent or 62 of total project
costs. Cofinancing totalling US$11.0 million equivalent (652 of total
project costs) is being sought. Initial contacts have resulted in
tentative commitments from UNDP, UNICEF, WFP and Sweden on a grant basis,
and other encouraging indications from bilateral and multilateral sources
on a grant or concessional basis. It is expected that the financing gap
will be filled by the time of project start-up. In order to expedite
project preparation, project preparation costs are being financed through a
Project Preparation Facility Advice (PPF) for US$750,000 equivalent which
was approved on June 7, 1988 (P-510-0-GUB), and a supplemental PPF for
US$630,000, equivalent approved on April 3, 1989 (P-510-1-GUB).
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Institutional Arrangements
3.01      The overall responsibility for project implementation will
reside with the Ministry of Planning (HP) which has established a
MHnagement Unit (MU) to directly oversee the Project. The MP would also be
resoonsible foL identifying, appraising and monitoring all poverty
alleviation sub-projects. The Project would also assist the MP by
financing specific technical assistance as outlined in Annex 8.
3.02      The MU will be responsible for coordinating all operational
aspects of the Project, in particulart (a) monitoring procurement
procedures under the Project; (b) monitoring disbursements of all credit
funds; (c) maintaining and auditing Project accounts; (d) coordinating and
monitoring technical assistance under the Project; (e) establishing and
managing the Special Account; and (f) monitoring overall progress of the
Project and preparing quarterly progress reports. The MU will be
responsible for discussing project implementation with the Government, IDA
and other participating donors.
3.03      The MU's key staff will be composed of a Project Coordinator and
National Director, an Accountant, and a Procurement Specialist, to be
financed under the technical assistance component of the Project. In order
to expedite project preparation work, the MU's Project Coordinator was
selected in July 1988, and has since then provided short-t rm assistance to
the MP. The terms of reference for the MU experts were agreed at
negotiations (Annex 8).
3.04      The infrastructure and site development works will be the
overall responsibility of the Ministry of Social Infrastructure (MES), and
specifically its Directorates of Roads and Bridges (DGEP), and of Housing
and Urban Affairs (DGHU). Actual management of the works implementation
will be ensured by a Technical Office (TO) established in the HES, staffed
with local technicians and technical assistance experts. The organization
and staffing of the MU and the TO were agreed at negotiations. The
appointment of a Project Coordinator, Accountant and Procurement Specialist



- 10 -
for the MU and a Contract Specialist, Supervision Engineer, and Accountant
for the To will be a condition of credit effectiveness. The appraisal and
approval procedures for the infrastructure contracts, including terms of
reference and staffing of the Bidding Comuittee, were agreed during
negotiations. Annex 2 provides details.
3.05      The TO vill assist MES both administratively and technically, in
all phases of implementation of the Project's infrastructure components.
The TO's responsibilities will include: (a) coordinating all
implementation aspects with central and local government agencies; (b)
preparing and supervising bidding and contract management; (c) preparing
quarterly progress reports for the infrastructure works and the site
development components; (d) assisting MES in the preparation, appraisal,
implementation and review of other investment projects in the
infrastructure sector; and (e) carrying out a survey of the existing
dwellings and occupants in the Antula neighborhood (Annexes 2 and 3).
3.06      All works, to the extent possible, independent of the source of
financing, would be carried out by local small- and medium-sized
contractors. However, to overcome difficulties associated with managing a
large number of small contracts, part of the works would be grouped in
packages of up to US$600,000 equivalent--a reasonable size to attract
international contractors already working in Guinea-Bissau or neighboring
countries. These contractors are expected to subcontract most of the works
to local enterprises, and the following factors should encourage the use of
small labor-intensive subcontractors: (a) works specifications will
emphasize labor-based techniques; (b) a significant part of payments will
be in pesos; (c) the prevailing low wages in the country; and
(d) difficulties of directly supervising a large number of employees. The
above packaging of contracts was confirmed at negotiations.
3.07      The education component will be implemented through the Ministry
of Education (ME) utilizing technical assistance being provided through the
on-going Education Project (Cr. 1914-GUB) (para 2.05 and Annex 4). The
health component has been designed to complement the on-going Population
Health and Nutrition Project (Cr. 1800-GUB) and utilize, to the extent
possible, existing administrative arrangements within the Ministry of
Public Health (MINSAP). In addition, there is close coordination with
other donor agencies such as WHO and UNICEF to avoid duplication (para 2.06
and Annex 5). The Reorientation Unit under the MFPT will be strengthened
to implement the program to assist laid-off civil servants and the
unemployed (para 2.07 and Annex 6).
B.   Action Plan
3.08      The proposed Project to be implemented over the 1990-93 period
will only be achieved if critic,.l project activities are closely monitored.
Particular obstacles which would have to be overcome include the
Government's slow contract approval procedures and the untimely supply of
counterpart financing. In order to ensure quick and successful project
implementation, the Government would establish special project approval
procedures. To assist in project implementation and monitoring, action
plans will be developed by the MU for each component, which would be
updated on a quarterly basis in consultation with the Association.



- 11 -
Updating of the Action Plans would coincide with, and be a part of,
quarterly project reporting to the Association.
3.09      It was agreed during negotiations that the Government, IDA and
other donors will carry out annual reviews of project implementation; the
first one to take place by September 30, 1990. The reviews will evaluate
both technical and financial progress in achieving Project objectives,
update timetables and cost estimates to complete the Project, monitor
expected Project impact and exchange information among staff responsible
for Project implementation. The implementation timetable for the Project
is presented in Annex 10.
C.   Procurement
3.10      The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below
(details are given in Annex 11 as well as in Annexes 2, 4, and 5).
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
--------- US$ million -------
Project Element                               LCB      Other    Total Cost
Civil Works                                   5.1      4.4         9.5
(0.4)   (0.3)       (0.7)
Educational Materials                                  0.6         0.6
Health Supplies and                                    2.2         2.2
Equipment
Vehicles, Office Equipment,                            0.2         0.2
Supplies and Materials.                             (0.2)       (0.2)
Operating Costs and
Recurrent Expenditures                               0.2         0.2
for Project Management bI                           (0.2)       (0.2)
Technical Assistance, Training,                        4.3         4.3
Consulting Services, Studies                        (3.9)       (3.9)
and Audits
TOTAL                                   5.1     11.9         17.0
(0.4)    (4.6)       (5.0)
a/ IDA share in parentheses.
b/ Also includes rental chazges for the MU.
Because of the employment generation objectives of the Project, the small
and scattered nature of most of the works and the short implementation
period, the Project is unlikely to interest foreign contractors, except
those already working in Guinea-Bissau or neighboring countries. For this
reason, the following three methods of awarding contracts for
infrastructure works will be: (a) for civil works LCB will be generally
consistent with the Guidelines on procurement and would include: (i) local
advertising with public bid opening; (ii) no preference to state-owred
enterprises; (iii) bidding documents would specify the criteria for bid



- 12 -
evaluation; and (iv) foreign bidders would not be precluded from
evaluation. The aggregate value for LCB would be 0.4 million.
Prequalification will not be used for LCB; consequently, invitations to bid
vill specify the minimum conditions a successful applicant must fulfill in
order to be capable of performing the contract. If an enterprise does not
fulfill these conditions, it will be eliminated during bid evaluation. The
standard document to be used for LCB would be reviewed and cleared by the
Association prior to inviting bids; (b) for civil works which are scattered
over large areas and -which are difficult for mobilization by large
contractors, and individual contracts less than US$100,000, competitive
bidding or direct contracting as applicable will be resorted to. The
aggregate value of this category will be 0.3 million; and (c) for vehicles,
office equipments, supplies and materials, competitive bidding with a
minimum of three quotations would be issued. It is expected that the
individual contracts will be below US$50,000 with an aggregate amount of
US$0.2 million. Procurement of goods specifically for the health and
education sectors to be financed by co-financiers will follow the
procedures outlined in Annexes 4 and 5.
3.11      All procurement and contracts for individual amounts exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent shall be subject to IDA's prior review, in accordance
with Appendix 1 paras 2 and 4 of the World Bank's Guidelines on
Procurement.  Consultants and individual experts will be selected in
accordance with the Baik's Guidelines for Employment of Consultants.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on procurement procedures
relating to works, goods and services, the financing of operating costs for
the HU (rental charges and office equipment) and for the TO at the MES
headquarters.
D.  Disbursement
3.12      In order to facilitate Project implementation, a Special Account
(SA) will be established in US dollars in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. The MU would make withdrawals
from the SA to finance the eligible percentage of approved Project
expenditures. An authorized allocation of US$600,000 would be deposited
into the SA after credit effectiveness and upon receipt of a withdrawal
application. Monthly requests for replenishment of the SA would be
submitted by the MU. Each replenishment request would be accompanied by
copies of bank statements from the commercial bank holding the SA.
Applications would also be accompanied by full supporting documentation or
certified statements of expenditure (SOEs) for all eligible Project
expenditures. Disbursement by the MU for Project components would normally
be on the basis of engineers' certificates against approved contracts, or
where appropriate, against the certified SOEs of approved ministries or
agencies. Full contract documentation would be required for all eligible
expenditures except for contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent.
Detailed contract and disbursement documentation would be retained by the
MU and made available for inspection by periodic supervision missions
carried out by the Association. The establishment of a Project Account in
Pesos, in a local commercial bank, for counterpart funds and the first
deposit of US$50,000 equivalent would be a condition of credit



- 13 -
effectiveness. Successive deposits will be made in line with project
requirements.
3.13      The table below gives the categories and amounts to be financed
out of the IDA Credit, and the percentage to be financed in each category.
The estimated amounts to be disbursed by the Association under the Credit
are indicated in Annex 12.
Disbursements
Category       Amount                 Percent
(US$ million)
1.  Civil Works             0.5     1002 of foreign expenditures;
952 of local expenditures
2.   Vehicles, Office       0.2     1002
Equipment, Materials
and Supplies
3.   Consultants'           2.4     1002
Services.Training,
Studies, Surveys
and Audits
4.   Operating Costs of    0.2      1002
Management Unit,
Technical Office and
Reorientation Unit
5.   PPF Refund             1.4     Amount due
6.   Unallocated            0.3          _
Total                  5.0
E.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.14      The MU will maintain consolidated accounts for the entire
Project and detailed accounts for all components, with the exception of
infrastructure works which will be the responsibility of MES. Assistance
will be provided to the MP and the MES to help strengthen their project
accounting capabilities through the MU and the TO respectively. Project
accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. Audited financial statements will be submitted to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case, not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Statements of expenditures
(SOEs) would be included in the audit and specifically addressed in the
audit report.



- 14 -
3.15      In addition to annual accounting and audit reporting
responsibilities, the MU would be required to prepare annual and quarterly
budgets for each component, update these budgets quarterly and provide the
Association with quarterly reports on actual and projected expenditure and
employment for each project component, subcomponent and disbursement
category. These reports would be due one month after the end of each
quarter, and form part of the MU's quarterly project reporting
responsibilities to the Association. The TO would contribute to the
reporting by submitting to the MU the relevant progress reports on the
infrastructure components.
F. Contractual Services, Technical Assistance and Training
3.16      In order to strengthen the capacity of implementing Ministries
to execute project components, including the provision of training
programs, about 260 man-months of engineering and other consulting services
will be provided. The approximate allocation of man-months of technical
assistance to the implementing Ministries would be as follows: (a) MP - 120
mm; (b) MFPT - 15 mm; (c) MES - 120 mm; and (d) MINSAP - 4 mm.  The details
of contractual services, technical assistance and training are outlined in
para 2.09 and Annexes 2 to 8.
3.17      The proportion of technical assistance to be financed from the
IDA Credit is fairly high (60Z), but the expertise needed to quickly
implement the various components of the proposed Project, which are
urgently needed to respond to basic needs and generate employment, are not
readily available at this time in Guinea-Bissau, without, in some areas,
causing a drain on already scarce human resources. The Mb will have
responsibility fot coordinating and monitoring the performance of
consultants employed under the Project. Training will be mostly on-the-job
and consultants would also be responsible for conducting short (1-2 weeks)
project management courses aimed at improving project implementation.
IV.   JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS, RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IPACT
A.   Project Justification
4.01      Since independence in 1974 Guinea-Bissau has faced the major
task of rebuilding its economy. The combination of excessive
centralization and weakness of the local administration has resulted in a
severe economic and financial crisis. To address this situation, the
Government has recently embarked on a comprehensive SAP with the objectives
of liberalizing trade, introducing more restrained fisc,cl policies and
production incentives, correcting foreign exchange pa,*ty, and other market
oriented measures. This policy mix, supported by an IDA Structural
Adjustment Credit and IMF Standby, and other bilateral and multilateral
donor assistance, has set in motion the mechanisms to correct the
distortions and imbalances in the economy. Despite the Government's
commitment to sustained implementation of the SAP, the economic recovery
program is not likely to benefit, in the near term, the most vulnerable
groups including the urban and rural poor. If unaddressed, these issues



- 15 -
could generate considerable opposition to the reforms and put the whole
adjustment process at risk. Urgent action is needed as the Government is
expected to discharge up to 1,500 public sector employees by the end of
1989: this number of dismissals is equivalent to about lOZ of the total
public sector work force but will be implemented flexibly, taking into
account availability of funds from the budget to finance the redundary
package, and the buoyancy of the labor market to absorb redundant staff.
Through the creation of a large number of short term jobs, the Project
would help to relieve urban poverty, and cushion the impact of the
impending layoffs. Additionally, by supporting efforts to improve the
health and education sector conditions, the Project would contribute to
meeting the basic needs of the poor.
4.C2      About 2,050 man-years of employment would be generated directly
and indirectly over the project implementation period 1990-93, at an
estimated average cost per job of about US$3,870 equivalent. Details on
employment generation are included in Annexes 2 and 3.  Most of these jobs
will continue after project completion, since they comprise works needed to
maintain social and infrastructure assets. Furthermore, the upcoming
Infrastructure Relief Project which is expected to be implemented over
1990-95 will build on developing the local contracting industry to
undertake roads maintenance and improvements and would further support
programs initiated under SIRP.
B.  Project Benefits
4.03      The Project's major benefit lies in its employment generation.
Project benefits would include rehabilitation and maintenance o. urban and
social infrastructure which would lead to improved overall sanitary and
environmental conditions, increased quality of delivery of health and
education services, expanded .upply of sites and services for low-cost
housing, and a better integration of social policy into the adjustment
process as a result of the socio-economic studies to be carried out under
the Project. Furthermore, support for a reorientation unit would provide
employment opportunities for redundant civil servants and the unemployed,
with special emphasis on women and youth. The rehabilitation of markets,
street improvements and site development (26Z of total project base costs)
were estimated by consultants to yield an economic rate of return of about
33Z. Due to the conservative assumptions used, particularly in not
counting many indirect project benefits, the estimated economic rate of
return should be regarded as indicative of the minimal range of project
zeturns. For those components where it was not applicable to calculate an
ERR, evaluations were made based on qualitative assessments of economic and
social benefits. Details of the economic analysis are provided in
Annex 13.
C.   Proiect Risks
4.04      The main Project risks are that:  (i) the implementation
capability of the executing agencies may be overtaxed in the short run,
leading to implementation delays and difficulties in supervision and
financial control; (ii) the Government may find it difficult to provide



- 16 -
local counterpart funding on a timely basis; and (iii) the urgency for
employment generation could increase the possibility that some project
components may not be properly appraised. However, the MU has already
hired a competent Project Coordinator, and iS in the process of recruiting
other key officers to alleviate the problem of weak implementation
capacity. The opening of a project account for counterpart funds with
payments made in advance--the first quarterly contribution being a
condition of effectiveness--will establish an administrative system to
ensure timely allocation of the Government's contribution to the Project.
Furthermore, counterpart funding needs would be considered in the Public
Expenditure Program which will be reviewed on an annual basis under the
Structural Adjustment Credit. Evaluation of subprojects would be done by
consultants and supervised by the MU and periodic IDA supervision missions.
D.   Environmental Impact
4.05      A substantial segment of the Project is devoted to
infrastructure components in urban areas. The works will include
improvement of drainage and sewers, which will have a positive impact on
the environment. This should assist in diminishing the chances of further
cholera outbreaks such as the one which occurred in October 1987.
4.06      The development of plots in the Antula neig8 ,orhood in Bissau
will have no adverse effect on the environment, including Guinea-Bissau's
forest reserves.
4.07      A survey of the occupants of the existing dwellings will be
carried out by the TO in parallel with the final design of the site
development component (Annex 3). A socio-economic evaluation of the impact
of the Project and a tenure plan for present area residents and, if
necessary, a resettlement plan in conformity with Bank guidelines, will be
done before any civil works start on the site. The terms of reference for
the survey were agreed at negotiations. It was further agreed that the
survey will be completed by June 30, 1990. 3y September 30, 1990--the date
of the first annual project implementation review--the Association will
review the recommendations of the survey and agree with the Borrower on an
action plan for implementation, including the resettlement plan, if
necessary, and measures to recovery the cost of land to benefiAiaries of
serviced lots (Annex 3).
V. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      Agreements were reached on the following at negotiations:
(a) The organization and staffing of the MU and the TO including
terms of reference for the expatriate experts for the MUs (i)
Project Coordinator; (ii) Procurement Specialist; and (iii)
Accountant, ard for the TO: Contract Specialist, Supervision
Engineer and Accountant (paras 3.02, 3.03, 3.04).



- 17 -
Jb) Terms of Reference and staffing of the Bidding Committee (para
3.04).
(c) Annual Reviews to monitor project implementation (para 3.09).
(d) Procurement procedures related to works, goods and services
(para 3.11).
(e)  Progress reporting, accounting and auditing, including form,
content, frequency and responsibility (paras 3.14 and 3.15).
(f) The terms of reference to carry out a socio-economic survey of
the existing residents in the Antula neighborhood in Bissau and
timetable to agree on an action plan to implement
recommendations and measures to recover the cost of land to
beneficiaries of serviced plots (para 4.07).
5.02      The following would be conditions of credit effectivenessa
(a) Appointment of key staff for the MU and the To (para 3.04).
(b) Establishment of a Project Account in Pesos in a local
commercial bank for counterpart funds, with a first deposit of
not less than US$50,000 equivalent (pare 3.12).
5.03      On the basis of the above actions and agreements, the proposed
Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDI 3.85 million (US$5.0
million equivalent).
APTIN
April 19, 1989.



- 18 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Living Conditions in Guinea-Bissau
1.        The analysis of living conditions in Guinea-Bissau reveals a
state of general poverty that assumes varying aspects depending on the
groups concerned. The poverty observed in the country is not purely
monetary. It is also a lack of access to goods and services, mostly
public, which keeps certain groups in a position of vulnerability and
poverty.
2.        In February 1986, nearly 70? of all households in Bissau had an
expenuiture level below that required for meeting basic needs, the latter
being estimated at PG 62,400 per month. The average monthly expenditure
was assessed at PG 55,600, and it varied between 18,900 and 118,500 PG from
the quintile of households with the lowest expenditures to the quintile of
households with the highest expenditures. Approximately 662 of total
households had an expenditure level lower than the average monthly
expenditure observed. At least 8Z of the average monthly expenditure
corresponded to non-monatized consumption, namely home-produced goods and
barter transactions. These latter apply mainly to housing expenditures.
3.        The structure of consumption shows the important weight of food
(71.22), with rice alone accounting for 9? of all household expenditures.
At'ong those with the lowest expenditure level, the relative weight of rice
was more pronounced and amounted to 18? of their total expenditures,
whereas their real per capita consumption was the lowest (7.6 kg/month).
However, the limited supply of nonfood products in the markets may
partially explain this expenditure structure. The situation may have
changed since 1986 among the better-off households, following the
improvement in the supply of consumption goods.
4.        Assuming two active persons per household, the average income
earned by each to cover basic needs was estimated at PG 33,100 in February
1986, i.e. three times the average net monthly salary of a government
employee (PG 11,000) and a little over double the wage of a worker in the
informal sector (PG 14,200). In February 1987, the basic needs expenditure
level saw an increase of 85? compared to 1986. To reach this consumption
level, the average income by active person per household should have been
about PG 61,400, i.e. four times the average net monthly salary of a civil
servant. Clearly, chere are also other sources of income, monetary or
other, such az income-generating secondary activities, remuneration paid in
kind, rentals, assistance from family members, foreign transfers,
traditional credit, etc. However, present knowledge regarding income and
employment is incomplete, which restricts the formulation of precise
strategies for income and employment creation (especially in the informal
sector).



- 19 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
5.        Rural households appear to suffer less of a constraint regarding
expenditure than those in the capital. Their average consumptiQ was
higher (in terms of total and per capita consumption; respectively PG
122,200 and PG 9,450) and, in certain regions, was as much as double that
observed in Bissau. The wider range of auto-consumption possibilities and
the more intensive recourse to home-produced items explain largely this
disparity. On the other hand, the constraints and bottlenecks affecting
the social sectors (health, education, housing), while independent of the
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), cause major difficulties of access to
these services for the rural population:
(a) The coverage of the educaition system is less extensive in the
rural areas although that is where the greater part of the school-age
population is living. The average enrollment ratio for children aged 7 to
14 was about 34Z in 1986-87 whereas it was 532 in Bissau. It is also the
rural population that shows least interest in educating girls, who are
under-represented; they make up only 32Z of the total primary enrollment in
the regions outside the capital as compared to 492 in Bissau. About 72Z of
the rural schools are in bad repair, which is a further factor that erodes
the quality and continuity of the education provided. Finally, teaching
supplies and equipment are virtually nonexistent.
(b) The shortage and under-qualification of zedical personnel,
deterioration of health establishments and the dearth of drugs and
medications are more acute in the rural areas, particularly in the east and
north of the country.  The health status of Guinea-Bissau is one of the
poorest in the world. The iife expectancy is approximately 38 years and
the infant mortality ratio varies between 180 and 200 per 1000 (in 1983).
In 1987, there was one doctor per 2,448 inhabitants in tne Bissau
autonomous district, whereas this ratio reached 13,434 for the rest of the
country. About 130,000 persons would be directly exposed to onchocerciasis
(especially in the eastern regions), of whom 42X were estimated to be under
age 15 and 16? under age 5. Almost one-fourth of the exposed population may
be infected. Malnutrition affects infants aged 6 to 36 months, pregnant
women and nursing mothers; it is apparently due to deficiencies in food
habits and behaviors, inadequate incomes, distribution of work and food in
the family and, in some measure, availability of foodstuffs in the markets.
Videscale epidemiological surveys indicate that the HIV2 strain of the AIDS
virus has a particularly high prevalence in Guinea-Bissau.
(c) The limited availability of drinking water country-wide and
environmental sanitation problems are crucial elements affecting the
housing and health conditions of the population. Barely 20? of the
population have drinking water supply in their homes or within 15 minutes'
walk, and have sanitary facilities of even a rudimentary nature available
to them.
6.        However, notwithstanding the concentration of social services in
Bissau, thAUr quality remains very lov for users in the capital. As
regards housing in particular, the population of Bissau suffers from over-
crowding, the advaz'ed state of disrepair of housing stock, and insecurity
of tenure. This overcrowding plus the insalubrity of the environment,



- 20 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
coupled with the lack of drinking water and bodily hygiene, are the main
causes the high level of morbidity and mortality, specifically among young
children.
7.        The difficulty of access to production inputs or to income-
generating employment contributes to keep the most disAdvantaged in their
state of vulnerability. In the agriculture sector, physical capital is the
input that is least accessible to small agricultural production units,
which holds back their performance and development and explains in part
their inability to achieve food self-sufficiency. Land is in general
readily available, except in the bottomlands which are used ess'ntially by
women growing rice.
8.        The present situation of under-employment is characterized on
the one hand by low physical productivity of labor and the economic
inefficiency prevalent in a number of activities, and on the other by the
growing number of unemployed, some of them being the direct outcome of SAP.
The low level of technical and professional qualifications, the ignorance
of opportunities in the informal sector and the lack of support mechanisms
for employment creation or establishment of businesses are major obstacles
to the re-employment of the jobless into new activities, especially among
former government employees. Finally, women working in urban areas are
among the least qualified workers and occupy the lowest positions in the
socioprofessional ladder.
9.        The improvement of human capital requires the integration of
social and equity considerations within macroeconomic policies and sectoral
policies of social sectors. The institutional capacity must be developed
to conceive, to set up and to monitor projects, programs or policies aiming
at the most vulnerable groups. In the short term, different actions must
be undertaken to resolve the problems of the poor, to increase their
participation to the economic activity and to attenuate the social
transitional costs of adjustment. Studies and surveys must be carried out
to obtain data, and to monitor strategic indicators of the social
conditions in the country, especially in the capital. Finally, a
communication process should be started to improve the public's
understanding of specific adjustment policy objectives, to accelerate the
beneficial effects of actions or projects to be created, and to insure that
targeted groups are effectively reached.
Project's Target Group
10.       The objectives of the Project are employment generation,
improvement of the overall sanitary, infrastructure and environmental
conditions, enhancement of the quality and delivery of health and education
services, and expansion of t).e low-cost housing supply. The Project will
address the needs of the following vulnerable groups:
(a) The unemployed or under-employed urban households which include
laid-off civil servants, the low income households and all the others out
of work: the retrenched public workers constitute an important visible



- 21 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
group and will reach 5,000 persons (around 202 of the public sector) at the
end of the process. During 1987 and 1988, 2,855 workers (1,097 from the
public administration, 1,182 from Socomin, 579 from Armazens do Povo) were
laid off and cnly 458 of them had been re-employed. The sub-components of
the infrastructure part of the Project (rehabilitation and maintenance of
inf:-astructure and community facilities and site development) will
generate, directly and indirectly, around 2,050 man-years of employment for
the whole duration of t',e Project (three years). This is an important
contribution in the light of the under-employment situation and the
importance of low income households prevailing in Bissau.
(b) The urban population living in poor housing conditions (lack of
drinking water, environmental and sanitation problems, over-crowding and
deterioration of housing) will benefit from the infrastructure component
and the site development. The urban centers selected will be Bissau and
other priority centers outside the capital (Bafata, Bambadinca, Bissora,
Bolama, Buba, Canchungo, Farim, Gabu and Qvinhamel). Approximately 232 of
the country's population will experience an improvement of their sanitary
and environmental conditions.
(c) The school-age population, particularly in rural areas; nearly
72? of the rural schools are in poor condition and teaching materials are
lacking at the primary and secondary levels. The education component will
address these problems, particularly in regions which are not covered by
the existing education project in the country. Furthermore, some of the
regions selected represent the lowest primary school enrollment ratios of
the country (in 1986-87 Gabu: 26.6?, Bafatat 27?). A more equitable
nation-wide distribution of appropriate school facilities should encourage
the quality and continuity of education.
(d)  Children and pregnant women are the most vulnerable segment of
the population as regards health.  The drugs component, the support for the
country's AIDS campaign and the rehabilitation of health care facilities
will help, among other things, to reduce the infant mortality rate (between
180 and 200 per 1000 during 1983) and to increase the present life
expectancy of only 38 years.
AFTIN
LIV-CON-
April 10, 1988



- 22 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Infrastructure Component
A.   Background
1.        The population of Guinea-Bissau is approximately 920,000, of
which about one-sixth live in Bissau, the capital city. The portion of
population living in urban centers of 5,000 or more inhabitants is
currently estimated by the Government at some 220,000, or about 242 of the
country's total population.   Two or three secondary centers have a
population of around 20,000, and only four or five other towns count more
than 5,000 inhabitants.
2.        Most of the urban centers, including the capital, inherited at
least in their core areas, fairly well organized systems of road, drainage,
and water supply infrastructure from the colonial period. However, owing
to recent economic difficulties, maintenance of all infrastructure was
severely neglected and virtually no funding was made available to extend
these systems into the rapidly expanding areas of new development. Today,
not only is a majority of urban residents deprived of access to the most
minimal infrastructure services, but also large parts of the existing
systems are in a state of extreme dilapidation. Unless extensive
rehabilitation works are undertaken soon, they will deteriorate beyond any
possible repair. One of the most worrisome consequences of the lack of
maintenance has been the steady deterioration of overall sanitary
conditions, especially in Bissau where a cholera outbreak in 1987 resulted
in the death of several hundred people.
3.        The condition of most community facilities is similarly
alarming.  Health care centers and hospitals lack in many cases even
minimal hygienic and operational standards. School buildings are
dilapidated, and especially in secondary centers and rural areas, they
frequently do not meet structural safety standards.  In many cases, due to
a lack of appropriate funding, class room extensions needed to accommodate
the growing number of pupils were set up in temporary sheds, which hardly
provide an adequate environment for educational activities.
4.        In Bissau, some of the most urgent needs are beginning to be
addressed with the assistance of multi and/or bilateral donors. In 1988,
the African Development Bank (ADB) approved a loan for a water supply god
drainage improvement project amounting to US$7.7 million equivalent. The
French Cooperation Fund (FAC) has agreed to provide technical assistance
and basic equipment to the Bissau Municipality for the rehabilitation of
its solid waste collection services.



- 23 -                         Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
B.   Project Description
5.        The infrastructure works to be carried out under the Project are
intended to either complement and/or extend ongoing infrastructure
rehabilitation efforts, or while addressing immediate needs, provide a
basis for the development of future follow-up programs.
6.        The proposed infrastructure component consists of:
(a) rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and construction
of new basic urban infrastructure;
(b) improvement of sanitary conditions and upgrading of water
supply networks; and
(c) rehabilitation of community facilities.
7.        With the exception of new classrooms to replace temporary sheds
('barracas") and some minor extension of a few markets. the program will
not include the construction of any new facility. The works included in
this component will be concentrated primarily in urban areas (with the
exception of some repair work of primary schools). About 31? of the
program is targeted for the city of Bissau, and about 692 for ten of the
major secondary cities: (Bafata, Bambadinca, Bissora, Bolana, Buba,
Canchungo. Farim, Gabu, Mansoa, and Quinhamel) and rural areas of: Bigene,
Boe, Bubaque, Bula, Cacheu, Caio. Caravela, Contuboel, Galomaro, Garamudo,
Pirada, Pitche, Sao Domingo, Sonaco, Uno, and Xitol.
8.        The total base cost of the component is estimated at US$7.25
million. Distribution by type of works and regions is shown below:
Other      Rural            Total
Bissau    Centers    Areas
_-__-------- US$ million -----------------
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation              1.36        0.96         -             2.32
Sanitary improvement/
Water Supply                0.02        0.45          -            0.47
Community Facilities
Rehabilitation              0.84        2.44          1.18         4.46
Total                  2.22        3.85         1.18          7.25
X of total             31         53            16            100



- 24 -                          Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
C.   Detailed Description of Components
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
9.        Drainage networks:  Works consist mainly of repairs and, where
needed, limited reconstruction of existing drainage networks in Bissau and
other priority centers.  In Bissau, the work would complement that being
carried out under the ADB project.
10.       Street improvements:  Routine maintenance works on existing
paved roads in Bissau and other priority centers, repair of existing and/or
construction of new sidewalks along streets with heavy traffic, or areas of
heavy concentration of pedestrians (markets, schools, etc.); and the
construction of new laterite access roads to peripheral areas.
Sanitary Improvements and Water Supply Rehabilitation and Extension
11.       Sewerage repairs:  Repairs of the sewerage system of two major
public facilities in Bissau, the Simao Mendes Hospital and the Bandim
market. Both systems are currently leaking and represent a major health
hazard to the Bissau population. The 1987 cholera outbreak was reportedly
traced to the infiltration of sewage into the water supply network in the
Bandim market area.
12.       Water supply rehabilitation and extension:  Repairs and small
scale extensions to existing water supply networks in six secondary
centers. Works comprise repair of reservoirs, replacement of broken or
leaking mains, limited extension of networks into currently non-serviced
low-income neighborhoods, and repair of existing and/or construction of new
stand-pipes.
Rehabilitation of Community Facilities
13.       Markets:  This includes the repair and rehabilitation of
existing markets in Bissau and other priority centers. Works to be carried
out range from replacement of structurally unsafe roof trusses to paving
of open and covered market areas, the construction of appropriate sanitary
facilities, and the construction of hygienically suitable vending stalls
for fish and meat products.
14.       Hospital and health centers:  This includes repairs to health
care facilities in secondary centers. Where needed, it also includes the
rehabilitation, reconstruction and extension of sanitary installations and
cooking facilities. The works do not include, however, the supply and
installation o! equipment and furniture.
15.       Schools:  This includes the repair of an existing kindergarten
(in Bissau), primary schools (in priority centers and rural areas) and
secondary schools (in both Bissau and other priority centers). It also
includes the construction of new classrooms where existing provisional
school sheds need to be replaced by permanent structures (Annex 4).



- 25 -                         Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
16.       Buba Wharf:  In addition to the above mentioned community
facilities, the Project provides for the repair and rehabilitation of the
Buba Wharf. Repair of this facility will restore access by river transport
ac-ess to this important regional center.
D.   Procurement
17.       In keeping with the overall objectives of the Project, most
works included in the infrastructure component are of a technically simple
and labor-intensive nature, and remain within the capability of local
medium and small-scale corntractors.
18.       The following alternative methods of awarding contracts for
infrastructure services will be used: (a) for civil works LCB will be
generally consistent with the Guidelines on procurement and would include:
(i) local advertising with public bid opening; (ii) no preference to state-
owned enterprises; (iii) bidding documents would specify the criteria for
bid evaluation; and (iv) foreign bidders would not be precluded from
evaluation. The aggregate value for LCB would be 0.4 million.
Prequalification will not be used for LCB; consequently, invitations to bid
will specify the minimum conditions a successful applicant must fulfill in
order to be capable of performing the contract. If an enterprise does not
fulfill these conditions, it will be eliminated during bid evaluation. The
standard document to be used for LCB would be reviewed and cleared by the
Association prior to inviting bids; (b) for civil works which are scattered
over large areas and which are difficult for mobilizatlon by large
contractors and individual contracts less than US$100,000, competitive
bidding or direct contracting as applicab'Le will be resorted to. The
aggregate value of this Category will be 0.3 million; (c) for vehicles,
office equipments, supplies and mateUials, competitive bidding with a
minimum of three quotations would be issue. It is expected that the
individual contracts will be below US$50,000 with an aggregate amount of
US$0.2 million.
19.       The following factors should encourage the contractors to
subcontract and use labor-intensive methods to carry out the work:
(a) contractors would receive a significant part of their payments in
Pesos; (b) the prevailing low wages in the country; and (c) managing a
limited number of subcontracts is easier than directly supervising a large
number of workers.
20.       All procurement and contracts for individual amounts exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent shall be subject to IDA's prior review in accordance
with the Appendix 1 paras 2 and 4 of the World Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Complete documentation on all contracts will be filed with the
Management Unit (MU) in the Ministry of Planning (MP), and will be
periodically reviewed by IDA.
E.   Institutional Arrangements
21.       The implementation of the entire infrastructure component will
be carried out under the responsibility of the Ministry of Social
Infrastructure (MES) and specifically, its Directorates of Roads and



- 26 -                        Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
Bridges (Direcao Geral de Estradas e Pontes - DGEP) and of Housing and
Urban Affairs (Direcao Geral de Habitacao e Urhanismo - DGHU). Actual
management of the works implementation would be ensured by a special
Technical Office (TO) set up within the General Secretariat, staffed with
local technicians and technical assistance experts. This unit, under the
overall coordination of the MU would assist MES both administratively and
technically, in all phases of implementation of the project's
infrastructure components. Its responsibilities will include: (a)
coordinating all implementation aspects with central and local government
agencies; (b) preparing and supervising bidding and contract management;
(c) preparing quarterly progress reports for the infrastructure works and
the site development components; (d) assisting MES in the preparation,
appraisal, implementation and review of other investment projects in the
infrastructure sector; and (e) carrying out a survey of the existing
dwellings and occupants in the Antula neighborhood.
Bidding Committee
22.       The Bidding Committee, established within MES, will be
responsible for the review and evaluation of procurement procedures to
contract civil works under the Project. In discharging its
responsibilities, the Bidding Committee will be assisted by the TO.
23.       The Bidding Committee will be staffed as follows:
(i)       one representative of the Presidency of the Council of
State;
(ii)      two representatives of MES, including the Chairman of
the Bidding Committee;
(ii)      one representative of MP; and
(iv)      one representative of the central and local government
agency concerned; including, inter alia: central
government: ME, MINSAP, or Resident Minister; and
local government: Bissau Municipality or State
Committee.
F.   Employment Generation
24.       About 2,050 man-years of employment would be generated by the
Project at an estimated cost per job of about US$3,870 equivalent
(including both the infrastructure work and the site development for low-
cost housing component described in Annex 3). This total corresponds to
about 6,300 man-months of skilled labor (bricklayers, carpenters, foremen,
etc.) and 18,250 man-months of unskilled labor.
ANN2.GB
AFTIN
April 10, 1989



Projected Value and Form  of                      Local (micro, small and medium) and
Coritracting Infrastructure Works                   Foreign Enterprises in Guinea-Bissau
Bise Cost (U8S millions)                              Number of Enterpries
4 - ~~~~~~~3614/
12
12 
10~~~~~1
2.4
8*.~~~~~~~~~
4
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~ ~~~0'
Diret Contrast Compot. Biding   LC..                     MIeco      small    Medium    Foreign



- 28 -                                     Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
Infrastructure Works
(a) by type of work
Base Cost (US$ mlilins)
6                ~~~~~4.40
4'
3-
* Street mprw. Comm. Fcilities Basic Sanitation
(b) by region
Bao* Cost (US$ millions)
2.14
2-
1.6                            .
1
0.5-
0 North      East      South      lssa
-  Wres lmpvosmm.at     Community Facililties
Bade Saniltatin



-29 -                     Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Site Development for low-cost Housing
Background
1.       Housing conditions in Bissau and the country's secondary centers
are extremely poor, and there is a severe shortage of dwellings affordable
by the poorer segments of the population. In Bissau, the need is estimated
at 12,000 new dwellings. Aside from the former colonial villas which are
generally occupied by government officials and members of the foreign
community, a majority of houses are of traditional design and usually
built under self-help arrangements with local construction materials.
Other building materials and basic construction supplies are imported, but
because of the country's foreign exchange constraints are only
intermittently available. This accounts for a speculative market, and is
partially responsible for abnormally high construction costs.
2.       Since independence, the Government's policy for the  development
of the housing sector consisted principally in seeking to obtain foreign,
primarily bilateral, funding for public housing projects. Results were
disappointing and in total, no more than 160 units were ever built. Some
of the projects took up to 10 years to complete, while others were simply
abandoned at various stages of completion (see table below). Housing
standards, building costs and wider use of serviced plots, so relevant in
the overall solution, were never adequately studied. Moreover, no
consistent effort was ever made to tackle the crucial problem of supplying
the basic services to the existing, let alone the new, rapidly developing
housing areas in Bissau and secondary centers.
3.       Aside from the persistent shortage of funding, the absence of a
clearly defined institutional frameworK was one of the chief factors that
led to the current critical situation. The definition of the respective
roles of the Ministry of Social Equipment (MES) and the Bissau Municipality
(Camara Municipal) regarding land allocation, housing and urban development
will be addressed by the housing policy study to be carriee. out under a
second PPF for the proposed IDA financed IRP.



- 30-                           Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
NUEER OF  NUMBER OF
PLOT   RESPONSIBLE           COMMENCEMENT COMPLETION INITIATED  COMPLETED
UNITS SIZE M2   AGENCY    FUNDING      YEAR      YEAR      UNITS      UNITS
ANTULA          60 800-B00      MES     FRO/OPEC   1978                   17(1)
BAIRRO DOS      40 450-600      MES     INSPS       1981                  23        23 (2)
TRADALHADORES
INSPS           64 400-40       INSPS   HOLLAND    194         1987       64        5..
ASDI            48              MES     SWEDEN      1976       1987       46        48
APARTMENT3
SANDINO         64              MES     CUBA        1977                  64        32
APARTMENTS
CABO  let phase  27 600         MDRP    ECC         1986                  27
XANqUE 2nd phese 2 80
PRE-FABRICATED    20 B00-480    MES     YUGOSLAVIA  1984                  20
HOUSES
CNTP            80 600          MP      HOLLAND    1988                   12
TOTAL          423                                                       265       157
(1)     Unfinished dwellings are going to be allocated to civil servants.
(2)     Dwellings, at various stages of completion, were allocated to HES civil
servants who are finishing the buildings under self-help arrangements.
Component Description
4.       In addition to representing the beginning of an effort on the part of the
Government implement a coherent housing policy, the proposed site development
component would pursue a double objective: first, to relieve - through the supply
of about 690 basically serviced plots - the pressure on the demand for low-cost
housing land in Bissau; and second, to provide the Government an opportunity to
test different formulas of service standards, implementation arrangements and
allocation/commercialization procedures.  Thus, the component is conceived as a
pilot program likely to lead to the preparation of more comprehensive programs
that could be part of future projects. This work will be coordinated with the
proposed Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project.
5.       The total cost of the prograi- is estimated at US$685,000 equivalent.
Distribution, according to the type of -work is shown below.



- 31 -                        Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
EXTILN-    UNIT     TOTAL      LOCAL      FOREIGN     MANPOWER
SION      COST     COST
(km)    ($1000)   ($1000)      ($1000)   ($1000)      (man-year)
ROADS              6.3       42.0       265.0     159.0       106.0        160
WATER SUPPLY       5.2       30.0       156.0      45.0       105.0         100
NETWORK
ELECTRICITY        6.3       36.3       229.0      69.0       160.0          75
NETWORK
STREET             6.3        5.6        35.0      10.5        24.5         15
LIGHTING
TOTAL                                   685.0                              350
6.       The work comprises the development of about 690 new plots of an
average size of 300 sq m on a 40 ha site in the Antula neighborhood in Bissau.
There are already 106 dwellings scattered on the site. The consultants
responsible for the final design of the site development component (i.e., the
TO), will carry out a survey of the occupants and make recommendations
regarding cost recovery measures, and eventual relocation of persons presently
living at the sites. The recommendations will be discussed and agreed at the
first annual project implementation review.
7.       Infrastructure services will include laterite *oads, drainage, water supply
through either standpipes or individual connections, electric power and street
lighting. Road access will be provided under the earth road rehabilitation program
included in the infrastructure component. Water supply would be secured through an
existing, though currently unused borehole located near the site, or, depending on
the outcome of discuasions with the local power and water utility-
EAGB (Electricidade e Agua a Guine-Bissau), through a link to the city network.
Sanitation would be provided through individual pit latrines.
8.       The proposed land use is as follows:
ha
Residential new plots (690)                   20.7
Existing dwellings (106)                       6.3
Market area                                    1.0
School area                                    2.0
Sports and recreation field                    2.0
Circulation (including part of the
Antula road)                                   8.2
40.2



- 32 -                        Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
Cost Recovery
9.       Land costs would be recovered through lease payments by allottees
to the Bissau Municipalitv, on terms and conditions to be defined by the
housing policy study.
10.      The unit cost for a regular plot is estimated at US$1,000.00.
Assuminj a maximum of 25Z of the total household income devoted to housing
expenditure, the plots would be affordable to about 40 to 502 of the
population.
Institutional Arrangements
11.      The implementation of the site development component will be carried
out under the responsibility of MES. Actual management of the works
implementation would be ensured by the Technical Office (TO) set up within the
general secretariat of MES, staffed with local technicians and technical
assistance experts. This unit will assist MES, both administrativel7 and
technically, in all phases of implementation of the component. TO's
responsibilities will include:
a) coordinating with the Bissau Municipality;
b) bidding and contract management;
c) preparating of quarterly progress report for the site development
component; and
d) carrying out a survey of the existing dwellings and occupants to
recommend cost recovery measures and eventual relocation.
12.      At the completion of the implementation phase, final allocation of
the properties will be made following procedures agreed with the Association.
13.      The definitive institution which will be responsible for  developing
of housing policies will evolve from the transfer institution after the completion
of the housing policy study by MES.
Status of Preparation
14.      MES has prepared preliminary plans and cost estimates for this component.
The terms of reference for the employment of consultants have been prepared in
consultation with the Bank, and international consultants will be employed by MES
to prepare detailed designs, cost estimates and contract documents.
Employment Generation
15.      The execution of works within this component would create a total of
about 175 jobs over a two-year period. This would represent in all about 350
man-years of employment at a cost of about US$1,940 per job.



- 33 -                       Annes 3
Page 5 of 7
Socio-Economic Survey
16.       The survey referred to in para 11 d) above would be carried out
by the MRS to:
(a)    provide a socio-economic evaluation of the impact of
the Project on present residents of the plots in the
Antula neighborhood; and
(b)    identify and design a resettlement plan, if necessary,
for the present residents of the plots.
17.       Institutional framework
(a)    MES would, through the TO, carry out the survey;
(b)    In the course of discharging its responsibilities, MRS
would select and employ qualified local staff and
consultants' services necessary to carry out the
survey.
Is.       Terms of Reference.  In carrying out the survey, MRS would
obtain, inter alia, the followirg information relevant to the Antula
neighborhood and the occupants of the sites to be developed:
(a)    Antula neighborhoodt
(i) description of the neighborhood and its role in
the City of Bissau;
(ii) determination of whether Antula is exclusively
residential or there are combiercial andlor
industrial (or agricultural) land usesl
(iii) how proposed improvements under the sites and
services component link up witb existing urban
services; and
(iv) what local authority has jurisdiction in the
area;
(b)   Occupants of the sites to be developed:
(i) number of occupants presently living in the sites
to be developed under the Project;
(ii)  demographic profile of the occupants: age, sea,
marital status;
(iii)  list of where occupants are employed and their
income levels;



- 34 -                   Annez 3
Page 6 of 7
(iv)  determination of whether occupants own houses, or
are renting;
(v)  who has traditional rights to the land; or,
whether the present occupants pay a land rent;
(vi)  how occupants meet their service needs (water,
fuel, transport);
(vii)  how occupants want proposed improvements, and if
they are willing and able to pay for them;
(viii)  determination of whether occupant should be
permitted to continue occupying their present
homes, while paying for the improved services;
and
(ix)  whether any of the families, given the choice of
paying for land and services or leaving, will
choose to leave.
19.       Resettlement plan
(a)    if families chooee to leave  and action plan to
resettle them would be designed to provide them with
tie necessary assistance so they do not experience a
net loss as a result of the Project;
(b)    the resettlement plan would be designed in accordance
with the World Bank resettlement policy and guidelines
and include, inter alia, the following assistance to
the persons to be relocateds
(i)  designation of another public area of comparable
size where they may settle;
(ii)  assistance in dismantling their homes and
transporting the building materials to the new
site, or full compensation for the value of their
immovable assets;
(iii) a relocation grant to cover the costs of moving;
(iv) counseling and cooperation with community groups
to minimize the economic, social and
psychological disruption associated with the
move; and



-35-                      Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
(v) attention should be paid to the location of the
new site with respect to residents' current jobs
or occupations, available water supply and
sanitEtion and commercial and social services.
20.       Implementation schedule
(a)    not later than December 30, 1989, HES would employ the
local staff and consultants' services necessary to
carry out the survey;
(b)    not later than June 30, 1990, MES would complete the
survey and submit to the association the draft
recommendations of said survey; and
(c)    not later than September 30, 1990, the Government
woulds
(i) review with the Association the recommendations
of said survey; and
(ii) agree with the Association on an action plan to
implement said recommendations, including the
resettlement plan, if necessary; procedures for
allocating plots; and the measures to recovery
the cost of land to be legally attributed to
eligible beneficiaries of serviced plots.
AFTIN
April 10, 1989



- 36 -                      Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Education Component
Background
1.          The low quality and limited access and coverage of the education
system in Guinea-Bissau are among the primary constraints to increasing the
productivity of the country's labor force and to its economic development. The
rates of attendance and completion in primary and secondary education (university
education ie not available) are among the lowest in the world.   These low
educational outcomes are attributed, among others, to the poor curriculum and
inappropriate structure of the education system, lack of competent teachers,
scarce educational materials and limited and dilapidated school infrastructure.
The Bank Group's first investment in the education sector (Credit 1914-GUB), aims
to strengthen the primary education system, institute organizational reforms in
the Ministry of Education (ME), train primary teachers, as well as rehabilitate
dilapidated primary schools in the country's four most disadvantaged regions.
The IDA project, the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) a
financed program to provide textbooks and teaching materials for primary
education, and the UNDP technical assistance in education, together form a
complementary package addressing the urgent need for quality improvements in the
education system. These interventions, however, do not fully cover the range
of Guinea-Bissau's basic educational needs. At this time, little is being done
at the secondary level vhere the same constraints to primary education exist -
poor curriculum, lack of books, teaching materials, trained teachers and
defective school infrastructure. Access at secondary level is even much more
limited such that less than 21 of primary leavers can be accommodated by the
system. It is essential that minimum standards of teaching and facilities also
be provided at the secondary level to produce effective managers needed for the
country's growth.
2.          The education sector has been particularly hard hit by the short-
run economic difficulties faced during the structural adjustment period. The
cost f books and teaching materials, most of which are imported, have risen far
beyo.di the reach of the poor and vulnerable groups (students and teachers alike).
The levels of financing available do not provide for teaching materials for post-
primary education, and are inadequate for rehabilitating secondary schools as
well as pyimary schools in four other regions not benefitting from Credit 1914-
GUB or the assistance of other agencies.
Description of Project Component
3.          The education component would include two elements - rehabilitation
of existing primary and secondary school facilities, and the provision of basic
educational equipment. The components were identified on the basis of urgent
needs, impact on the learning environment, and possibilities for generating local
employment and entrepreneurship albeit of short duration. While the proposed
education component of the SIRP does not address qualitative and institutional
issues in the education system, it would, however:



- 37 -                   Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
(a)   improve the few existing secondary schools which cannot now
be utilized at optimum capacity because of dilapidated
conditions. The improved facilities would raise morale of both
students and teachers and improve perforLtance apart from
providing access to ts much as 1S5 more secondary school
students without expanding the system; and
(b)   permit a more equitable nationwide distribution of appropriate
primary school facilities.
4.          Rehabilitation of School Facilities.  (Total base cost - US$3.34
million).  This component would form an integral part of the infrastructure
package (see Annex 2) to be implemented under the responsibility of the Ministry
of Social Equipment (MES) and comprises thes
(a)   rehabilitation of about 239 classrooms in 60 dilapidated
primary schools benefitting about 16,800 primary students in
Cacheu, Bafata, Bolama and Gabu. The schools to be repaired
in these regions are not covered under Credit 1914-GUB, nor
by the education projects financed by SIDA, the European
Economic Community, the UN Special Fund for Education, and the
proposed African Development Bank-funded education project
(covering primary schools in Bissau). The rehabilitation work
would include classroom repairs and provision of sanitary and
water facilities. As appropriate, existing barracas (make-
shift primary classrooms) would be replaced with standard
classrooms.  However, in no case will school expansion or
work, which would imply additional recurrent expenditure, be
undertaken. The school selection criteria, construction and
design standards have been agreed with the Government, and
conform to those prescribed under Credit 1914-GUB.  These
school designs employ maximum use of local materials and labor,
appropriate technology, and thus support the SIRP's employment
generation objectives. It should be noted that the primary
schools in the four regions (Quinara, Biombo, Tombali and Oio)
identified under Credit 1914-GUB, constitute the first priority
insofar as primary school rehabilitation is concerned.
Therefore, to the extent feasible, these priorities would be
phased into the implementation of the SIRP. The list of
primary schools to be rehabilitated is included in the
Education Component Working Paper listed in Annex 14;
(b)   improvement of the school feeding facilities in 3 pre-primary
schools in Bissau which distribute the school meals supported
by the World Food Program. This sub-component would include
the improvement of kitchen, meal handling and distribution,
sanitary and water facilities); and
(c)   rehabilitation of classrooms and teaching facilities, toilets
and water supply in 11 secondary schools accommodating about
6,000 secondary students around the country. As explained
above in para. 4 (a), no expansion of school capacity would



- 38 -                     Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
be undertaken. The list of secondary schools is included in
the Education Component Working Paper listed in Annex 14.
5.          Educational Furniture and Equimaent. (Total base cost US$0.50 million
equivalent). This component includes the provision of:
(a)   classroom pedagogical aids (maps, charts, etc.) for 12 existing
secondary schools;
(b)   classroom furniture for the 60 primary and 11 secondary schools
rehabilitated under the project;
(c)   4 typewriters and I mimeographing machine for each of the 12
existing secondary schools; and
(d)   school meal handling materialslutensils for 3 pre-primary
schools;
Procurement
6.          Civil works would be procured by the Technical Office of MES using
local competitive bidding procedures vhich are acceptable  to IDA.   The
procurement of educational equipment and furniture would be managed by the
Management Unit (Unidade de Gestao) established under the Ministry of Planning
in accordance with procedures further described below.   The ME would be
responsible for distributing the goods to recipient secondary schools:
(a)   Bids for school furniture would be received locally from
manufacturers who have the contractual responsibility of
delivering the assembled and finished produc. to the recipient
primary and secondary schools. The basic school furniture
designs prepared by the ME for Credit 1914-GUB, would be
adapted for this project; and
(b)   Other educational equipment would be obtained through at least
three price quotations.
AFTIN
April 10, 1989



- 39 -                  Annex 5
Page 1 of 8
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RZ..IEF PROJECT
Health Component
A. Health Sector Background
1.          The Government of Guinea-Bissau has placed a high priority on
health since the country gained its independence in 1974. In 1978 the
Government endorsed the World Health Assembly resolution calling for "Health
for All by the Year 20000, and has strived to develop national programs aimed
at achieving this goal. The current strategy, set forth in a 10-year plan for
primary health care (1984-93) prepared with assistance from the World Health
Organization (WHO), identifies progress in the health sector as a key element
in the Government's overall development strategy. It also emphasizes thT role
of village based primary health care (PHC) with program priorities in maternal
and child health, immunizatior. against communicable diseases, provision of
essential drugs, control of malaria and other endemic diseases, and improved
water supply and sanitation. Furthermore, the plan supports the principles of
prevention, decentralization, simple and appropriate medical techniques and
training of health personnel. However, poor planning, limited managerial
capacity, and lack of sufficient resources have prevented effective enactment
of these policies. Also, Government has only recently recognized the
importance of formulating national policies in the areas of population and
nutrition. To date, steps taken in these areas have been very limited.
2.          Guinea-Bissau's health delivery system is almost exclusively
public and regulated by the Ministry of Public Health (MINSAP). The only
private practitioners are traditional healers and birth attendants. While
numerous foreign non-government organizations (NGOs) operate in the country,
all facilities are owned by MINSAP, and NGOs must work under MINSAP's
authority.
3.          Health status.  While data on morbidity and mortality is limited
and not completely reliable due to inadequate data gathering and record
keeping including misdiagnosis and double counting, it can be said that the
health status of Guinea-Bissau is among the poorest in the world. The
country's mortality rates are dismal: with crude mortality at 25 per 1,000 and
infant mortality at 180 per 1,000, life expectancy is only about 38 years.
Guinea-Bissau stands now where most other low-income African nations were 20
years ago. Largely because of these high mortality figures, the population
growth rate is comparatively low at 2Z, despite a total fertility rate of 6.0
and a crude birth rate of over 46 per thousand. Improvement of these rates is
of critical importance for meaningful progress in health.
4.          Health financing.  Guinea-Bissau's health sector is financed
almost exclusively through allocations from the central budget and assistance
from bi- and multi-lateral donors. The recurrent budget of HINSAP has fallen
as a proportion of the total national budget since 1980 - from 9.52 to about
7.5Z, a decline reflecting the growing burden of the country's external debt.



-40-                     AnneS 5
Page 2 of 8
MINSAP's real share of the "discretionary budget' has remained around 10X
throughout the 1980s.
5.          In the final analysis, the health sector, like all other sectors,
is dependent on the overall economic situation in Guinea-Bissau. The sector
has suffered from the acute external crisis and resultant shortage of foreign
exchange necessary to purchase drugs, vehicles, equipment and other supplies.
Economic recovery and eventual self-sustained growth, goals of the next phase
of the country's structural adjustment, should, if successful, bring lasting
benefit to the health sector along with the rest of the national economy.
6.          The Bank Group's Role.  Although Guinea-Bissau has expressed a
strong commitment to strengthening and expanding PHC, it is at present unable
to undertake the necessary measures to transform policy goals into
implementation objectives and actions. Before it can efficiently and
effectively address the issues confronting the sector, MINSAP must improve its
management and planning capabilities as an institution, and must investigate
options and subsequently take actions to improve recurrent cost financing. In
the short-term the Bank group's first project to focus on the health sector,
the Population, Health and Nutrition (PHN) project (CR-1800-GUB) which became
effective in December 1987 and is in the process of being implemented, will
further the planned core program for human resources development. The PHN
project has two basic objectives aimed at improving overall efficiency and
effectiveness of the health sector: (a) supporting the institutional
development of MINSAP, particularly, strengthening its planning, management
and finance capabilities; and (b) improving the delivery of PHC services,
especially at the periphery. Over the longer term, Bank assistance to the
sector must not only address immediate needs but also aid in establishing
reform to alleviate major constraints. Priority areas for future Bank
assistance to the health sector in Guinea-Bissau are: (i) sector financing;
(ii) population policy and family planning; (iii) nutrition needs and policy;
and (iv) role of the hospital sector.
B. Health Component
7.          The health component of the proposed Project will consist of the
following three sub-project components: (a) provision of supplemental
essential drugs and medical supplies for health facilities throughout the
country; (b) support for the country's AIDS campaign through (i) assistance to
the National Blood Donor Bank and (ii) additional drugs for AIDS-related
diseases; and (c) the rehabilitation of six additional health care facilities
and hospitals, and provision of furniture, equipment and supplies for these
facilities. The component attempts to address the health needs of certain
vulnerable and disadv&ntaged groups, targeting women and children as the
primary beneficiaries, through the provision of drugs and medicines.
Assistance to the Blood Donor Bank would also benefit many pregnant women, who
represent about one-third of the total recipients of blood transfusions in the
country.
8.          The health component has been designed to complement the on-going
PHN Project and utilize, to the extent possible, existing administrative
arrangements within the Ministry of Public Health. In addition, the health



- 41 -                    Annex 5
Page 3 of 8
compunent has been closely coordinLted with other donor agencies such as WHO
and UNICEF, to maximize existing resources, avoid duplication and complement
on-going activities.
1. Supplemental Essential Drugs Scheme
9.          Background.  Like many other developing nations, Guinea-Bissau has
had serious shortages of essential drugs, inadequate storage and distribution
systems, a high reliance on donated drugs, and excessively high prices for
drugs purchased privately. Unlike many similar nations, however, the problems
in the pharmaceutical sector in Guinea-Bissau are largely the result of
inadequate financing. Guinea-Bissau has, in fact, taken significant steps
toward implementing an essential drugs policy that would follow WHO
recommendatious. It has an Essential Drugs List and a National Formulary (a
guide to drug usage and dosage); generic rather than brand names are the norm;
and, given the supply constraints, drugs are distributed as equitably as
possible. Despite these positive elements, drug supply in Guinea-Bissau is
estimated to be only about half of the needs. Major reasons for this are: (a)
the lack of foreign exchange to enable direct procurement of drugs by MINSAP;
(b) reliance on donated drugs which frequently do not match the country's drug
needs; (c) excessively high prices charged by Farmedi, a parastatal drug
procurement agency serving several Ministries; and (d) consequent drug
procurement practices which are resource-driven rather than based on analysis
of needs.
10.         The National Essential Drugs Program began in 1984.  The Program
has been supported by the Government of Italy, WHO and UNICEF. There is a
National Coordinating Committee for Drugs in MINSAP as well as an external
National Drug Committee consisting of a group of advisers. A technical
adviser has been working with the program since late 1987, three months as a
UNICEF consultant, and since January 1988 on a WHO contract. Since the
program began approximately US$1.5 million has been allocated for drugs and
used In accordance with established plans. Primary elements of the first
phase of the program were: rational selection of essential drugs;
distribution according to needs; training of health workers in accurate
diagnosis and usage; improvements in management of storage and inventory
control; and supply of a restricted list of the most needed drugs.
11.         In addition to drugs supplied by the Italian Government and
UNICEF, the PHN project (Cr.1800-GUB) will be funding a total of US$175,000 of
essential drugs. This project also supports the introduction of cost recovery
measures, including for drugs, in the health sector.   These cost recovery
measures were, in fact, approved by the Council of Ministers on November 9,
1988, and MINSAP hopes to begin the implementation of the measures in early
1989. The need for essential drugs in the country is estimated at US$1.5
million per year (MINSAP receives only about US$100,000 per year for its drug
budget), of which about US$600,000 per year is not presently covered.
12.         Drugs sub-proiect component.  To alleviate the severe shortage of
essential drugs and improve access to drugs and medicines, thereby improving
the health status of some of the most vulnerable groups in the country
including pregnant women, often suffering from anemia, and children, the



- 42 -                  Arnex 5
Page 4 of 8
proposed Project would provide funds for a total of US$1.2 million of
essential drugs to be imported over three years. Additionally, an estimated
total of US$500,000 for medical supplies, dressings for wounds, etc. would be
supplied under the Project. These needed drugs and supplies would complement
and supplement those provided by other Projects and programs. Logistical
support totaling US$30,000 for two vehicles, maintenance and fuel would be
provided to ensure that the drugs and medical supplies reach the health care
centers, focusing on the distribution fron the regional centers to the local,
district facilities. The Project would also provide funding for US$20,000 of
educational materials and supplies to support the essential drugs program and
assist in the dissemination of educational information. About four-mar. months
of technical assistance for a training specialist, at a cost of about
US$40,000 would be required and funded under the Project for the essential
drugs sub-project component. This specialist would organize a systematic
training program for staff involved at all levels of the essential drugs
program, including prescribers and dispensers at health care facilities
throughout the country. The entire supplemental essential drugs subcomponent
would be coordinated by the Director of the Central Drug Store with the
collaboration of the National Coordinating Committee for Drugs, the National
Drug Coudittee as well as special assistance from the WHO technical
representative, currently involved in coordinating the drug management
component of the PHN Project, and the UNICEF office in Guinea-Bissau. The
essential drugs subcomponent would also come under the proposed guidelines for
the cost rec/very system, which has been elaborated with the Bamako
Initiative 1 in mind.  When implementation of ccqt recovery measures begins
under the PHN Project and the proposed Project, there will be a possibility,
for the first time, of gradual self-financing with eventual realization of the
intentions expressed in the Bamako proposal. (The working paper listed in
Annex 14 contains detailed lists of drugs and medical supplies to be procured,
quantities, costss and data on distribution procedures; monitoring procedures;
and the drugs training sub-project component).
13.         Estimated sub-project compone"t costs for the supplemental
essential drugs scheme are suumarized as follows:
US$ millions
Drugs                                            1.20
Medical Supplies and Dressings                     .50
Logistical/Transport Support                       .03
Ed'icational/Training Materials                    .02
Technical Assistance/Training
Specialist                                       .04
Estimated Total Cost                      1.79
1/ Bamako Initiative originated from the African Health Ministers Resolution
adopted during WHO's Regional Meeting Committee held in Bamako, Mali in
September 1987, in an effort to obtain health for all through Primary Health
Care proclaimed in Alma-Mata.



- 43 -                   Annex 5
Page 5 of 8
2. Support for the Aids Effort and the National Blood
Donor Bank
14.         Background.  The various means of transmitting the AIDS vires in
Guinea-Bissau are similar to those elsewhere, mainly through sexual contact
(primarily heterosexual); blood transfusions; vertical transmissions from
mother to infant; and exposure to unsterilized needles. Wide scale
epidemiological surveys indicate that the HIV2 strain of the AIDS virus, which
has a longer latency and incubation period, is more prevalent in West Africa
than other parts of Africa and the world, and has a particularly high
prevalency in Guinea-Bissau. While the results of numerous sero-surveys
carried out in the country up to the present time appear inconclusive and
there is a need for further epidemiological work to provide an indication of
the prevalence of seropositivity and establish high risk groups in the
population, the long-term implications of aiailable data are of great concern.
15.         The National Program on AIDS which emphasises health education
became effective in the latter half of 1987. The Program is administratively
located in MINSAP, and receives coordination and technical assistance from the
WRO office in Bissau.  The Program's short-term plan involving a widespread
informationimedia campaign, a series of workshops on AIDS for health care
personnel and workers, distribution of condoms, and surveillance, surveys and
screening for the AIDS virus has been implemented. The main participating
donors of the short-term plan and their specific inputs to the AIDS campaign
include WHO technical assistance and funds; ASDI - laboratory support and
equipment, ELISA tests, technical assistance; EEC - public education/media
campaign support; and Italy (ASCOM) - technical assistance for the blood donor
bank, equipment and supplies. The Medium-Term (Five-Year) Plan, the next
phase of the Program, is being developed and should be ready to be implemented
starting in mid-1989. Additional financing will be required to continue and
further develop the activities undertaken during the AIDS campaign's first
phase, including an expansion of the information campaign, logistical support
and funding assistance for recurrent costs for local staff salaries, office
support, supplies, etc. Total estimated costs for the Medium-Term AIDS
Program in Guinea-Bissau are between US$700-800,OO0 per year.
16.         Sub-project component. In order to provide expanded and
coordinated assistance to the AIDS program in Guinea-Bissat', the Project, with
Government and WHO concurrence, would provide specific support in two areas of
the AIDS effort: drugs for AIDS-related diseases; and supplemental support for
the National Blood Donor Bank.
(a)   Drugs for AIDS-related diseases.  The Project would support
drugs for AIDS associated diseases, identified by WHO,
particularly other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)
which facilitate the transmission of AIDS and hasten the
onset of clinical symptoms in those already infected.
Relevant drugs would be provided and distributed in
coordination with the supplemental essential drugs sub-



- 44 -                    Annex 5
Page 6 of 8
component, which would be managed and coordinated in the
Project with WHO and UNICEF assistance. Total cost of this
sub-project component is estimated at US$25,000 equivalent.
(b)   National Blood Donor Bank.  The National Hospital
Blood Donor Bank in Bissau maintains blood supplies for
transfusions, and attempts to screen as many blood donors as
possible, under very difficult conditions, for the AIDS
virus (HIV1 and HIV2). The Blood Donor Bank currently
receives Italian financial and technical assistance from the
Association for Missionary Cooperation (ASCOM). While this
assistance is expected to continue in the near term,
additional financial support for equipment, supplies, and
transport is required to better maintain and expand the
present program. This sub-project component would provide
support for the national blood program to protect blood
supplies against HIV infection and other diseases
transmitted by blood through funding for:
-     logistical support - an all-purpose vehicle to
be used to carry blood needed for transfusions in
Bissau and the interior, as well as better facilitate
the testing program.  Estimated cost for the vehicle,
maintenance and fuel is US$16,000 equivalent.
-     equipment and supplies - to supplement that provided
by Italian assistance, including protective gloves for
health care vorkers; reagents for blood typing and a
blood bank refrigerator. Estimated cost is US$14,000
equivalent.
3. Rehabilitation of Health Facilities
17.         Infrastructure Proiect component.  The physical rehabilitation of
six bealth facilities: regional hospitals in Bafata, Gab6 and Bolama, and
health care centers in Bissora, Bambandinca and Quinhamel would be carried out
under the Project's infrastructure component (Annex 2). This component is to
be implemented by the Ministry of Social Infrastructure (MES) with the
collaboration of MINSAP. No expansion work would be undertaken in this
component. The total base cost for the rehabilitation of the health
facilities is estimated at about US$0.7 million equivalent. There would also
be a provision for supplies, equipment, and furniture for each of the six
health facilities to be rehabilitated. Total base cost is estimated at
US$90,000 equivalent. The list of required equipment includes sterilizers
(heater and bowl), basic surgical tools, basic equipment for labor rooms, and
office supplies.
C.    Imlementation
18.         The health supplies and equipment component's procurement
arrangements for supplemental essential drugs, drugs for AIDS related
diseases, support for the blood donor bank, and supplies and equipment for the
health facilities to be rehabilitated under the Projact would be coordinated



~ 45 -                Annex S
Page 7 of 8
by the Project's Management Unit (MU) under the 1inistry of Plan. The MU
would receive input and collaboration from the relevant bodies within MINSAP
directly involved in the Project, through the link provided by MINSAP's
representative to the MU, including: the Central Drug Store, the National
Coordination Committee for Drugs, the National Drug Committee, the National
Blood Donor Bank, the National Program on AIDS, and the PHN Project Office.
19.         The Director of the Central Drug Store (Deposito Central de
Medicamentos), with the collaboration of VHO and UNICEF resident technical
representatives in Bissau, would be responsible for implementing all aspects
of the dtugs sub-project component, including providing lists of drugF to be
procured, procurement time-tables, as well as coordinating those drugs
required under the AIDS sub-project component to be targeted for AIDS-related
diseases. Similarly, the Director of the National Blood Donor Bank would
provide the MU with a list of supplies and equipment each year during the
Project through the MINSAP representative to the MU. These supplies and
equipment would be delivered directly to the National Blood Donor Bank. The
entire AIDS sub-project component would be overseen by the National Program on
AIDS Committee, with the collaboration of the VHO Resident Representative.
20.         Supplies and equipment targeted for the health centers to be
rehabilitated under the infrastructure component of the Project would be
coordinated by the PHN Project Director's office within MINSAP, in close
collaboration with the MU. The MU would be responsible for all cmntracts,
bidding procedures and procurement arrangements. The PHN Project Director
would provide lists of supplies and equipment for each health facility to be
rehabilitated, and the timing of procurement by the MU would be tied to the
rehabilitation of the facilities' timetables. The existing distribution
channels for the procured supplies and equipment would be the overall
responsibility of the PHN Project Director, while the existing distribution
mechanisms for drugs to health centers and facilities throughout the country
would be the responsibility ot the Central Drug Store with VHO and UNICEF
assistance.
21.         Low-cost drugs in a list of many items costing less than US
$400/list will be procured by direct contracting up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000. Other drugs and medical supplies for normal requirements will be
procured through open bidding internationally advertised. To ensure enough
supply offers from reliable sources, the suppliers responding to 1-te
advertisement will be preselected on the basis of specific criteria and will
be invited to bid. In emergenzy and at times when bidding is contemplated in
a large number of varied items, such as health kits, procurement through
UNICEF/WHO or other as appropriate would be followied. However, the total
amount for drug procurement will not exceed US$2.3 million. The procurement
arrangements for this component will follow the procedures of the
co-financiers which will be reviewed and finalized after the donors' meeting
in April 1989.



- 46 -                   Annex 5
Page 8 of 8
D.    Terms of Reference for the Pharmaceutical Training Specialist
22.         Job Descriptions
(1)   Specialist will design by drawing up the broad plans of a
training program for the essential drugs program, including
specifications of the working materials, as well as
organizing and participating in seminars to start-up the
program with nationals.
(2)   Specialist will establish the training program for essential
dru3s around the main theme of the 'rational use of drugs.
(3)   Specialist will begin the implementation of the drugs
training program by focusing on health centers and rural
sector hospitals (targeting the training of prescribers and
dispensers of drugs).
(4)   Include in the overall program information and training in
(i) the management of drug distribution and stock, and (ii)
management of logistics, storage, monitoring and evaluation
in an essential drugs program.
23.         Experience:
'1)   Individual should have actual working knowledge of essential
drugs in Africa.
(2)   Individual should have practical training and working
experience in education.
(3)   Individual must have in-depth knowledge of the African
experience in health sector. Preferably, individual should
be an African.
24.         Education:
(1)   Medical educational background, with training experience in
drugs required (doctor, nurse, or pharmacist).
(2)   Language requirement - must be fluent in Portuguese, with
ability to write and design training program completely in
Portuguese.
AFTIN
SIfRP.AN5
April 10, 1989



- 47 -                    Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Strengthening of the Reorientation Unit
1.        The present situation of under-employment is characterized, among
other things, by the growing number of unemployed in Bissau, some of them
being the direct outcome of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), i.e.
the freeze on public hiring and the reduction of civil service. Between
1987 and 1990 more than 5,000 civil servants may be laid off from the
government and public enterprises. The employment situation will also be
aggravated because there are many students finishing secondary education,
who will not be able to enter the civil service.
2.        The liberalization of the economy is having a dynamic effect on
the private sector, formal and informal, and is contributing to job
creation. Furthermore, the Project will also create jobs in the urban
centers. It appears crucial to orient the unemployed towards new job
opportunities, and to minimize the period of inactivity. The circulation
of information on job opportunities and possibilities to start private
businesses will be essential during the SAP. Recruitment by small-scale
enterprises is usually made through family and tribal connections. The
social rules for hiring should become more flexible. The substantial
changes that will occur in the labor market ard job opportunities created
through the Project will necessitate a wider circulation of information,
accessible to all the unemployed. At this point, more than 90t of the
civil servants laid off are Illiterate, so the usual media such as written
documents is not appropriate.
3.        In order to assist civil servants who have been laid off, the
Reorientation Unit under the Ministry of Public Function (MFPT) will be
strengthened under the Project. In this context, one of the primary
objectives of the Reorientation Unit will be to provide information to
unemployed people about job opportunities in Guinea-Bissau, in the capital
and in the countryside. In particular, it will establish an efficient,
computerized system of information on employment opportunities created
mainly by the infrastructure component.
4.        The Reorientation Unit will build a data bank on employment
opportunities available in the country wit,,special emphasis on women and
youth. Information such as quantity of jobs by category of activity,
qualifications required and jobs filled will be compiled. Similar data on
the characteristics of the unemployed will be also integrated into the data
bank. In conjunction with the data base, an information campaign on job
opportunities will be launched by using mainly the radio and traditional
comaanication networks, and by establishing advisory teams for laid-off
civil servants.
5.        The Project will finance equipment for the advisory team.  The
staff of the advisory unit will consist o%f eight professional civil



- 48 -                    Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
servants from the MPPT and consultant services will be provided for the
following taskst two man-months of international consultants to do a study
of the employment opportunities in the urban modern sector, and to define
orientation strategy according to the structure of demand for labor. The
consultants will also help in defining a mechanism to follow the evolution
of labor demand. Precise evaluation of labor opportunities created by the
Project will be part of the study. Two man-months of international
consultants to build a data bank on job opportunities and on the civil
servants laid-off. The consultants will also train the staff of the unit
in the use of the data bank. The Reorientation unit will also get
technical assistance support from an UNDP financed and ILO executed
project. A volunteer from a NGO, a voluntary organization, would be based
in the unit to provide technical assistance to help organize the advisory
units.
6.        A training program will be defined on a pilot basis for a
selected number of civil servants who have been displaced. The training
programs will be short-term, two to four months, focusing on sectors with a
need for skilled workers and leading to the development of micro
businesses. The candidates for training programs will be carefully
selected through a test according to their level of education and previous
activities. The training will be undertaken by the four centers of the
ITFP (Instituto Tecnico de Formacao Professional). For the purpose of
starting micro-businesses, a training kit of essential tools adapted to
each profession will be given to the trainers. It will allow them to start
working in the informal sector. The detailed program will be defined by a
consultant financed through the project.
7.        The reorientation of the laid off civil servants will be
organized as illustrated on the attached diagram. The civil servants will
be informed by their ministries and by the information campaign to come to
the reorientation unit. The advisory team will interview and test them and
will enter their profiles in the data bank. Then they will be oriented
towards training for creation of micro-business or training in view of
future regular employment. If they have no basis to profit from a short
term training they will be oriented towards enterprises working for the
Project or towards other sectors according to the needs as shown by the
study on employment opportunities.
8.        A study will be undertaken, on the reinsertion into the economy
of laid off workers from the parastatals to assess what are the major
problems they have been confronted with in finding new sources of revenues.
Based on these results, the need to expand or reorient the work of the unit
will be defined and funds could be reallocated if needed.
9.        The base cost of strengthening the Reorientation Unit is
estimated at US$398,000, with the following breakdown: (a) equipment and
operating expensess US$43,000; (b) training through ITFP: US$245,000;
(c) equipment for retrained civil servants: US$40,000; and (d) technical
assistances US$70,000.



ORIENTATION PROCESS FOR LAID-OFF CIVIL SERVANTS
Advisory team                            > Training and -----     > Micro business
I              equipment
Laid off --------->  Interview ---------> Orientation         > Training  ------------>  Formal employment
civil servants        tests
> SIRP opportunities
construction companies
Information         Data base on        Data base on        > UnskAlled employment
campaign            laid-off civil       employment
servants            opportunities                                                            I
%0
0' :
0



- 50 -                     Annex 7
Page 1 of 6
GUItNEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA)
1.        The main objective of the Monitoring and Evaluation component is
to help the government to integrate social policy into the structural
adjustment process. The social policy aims at ensuring that the poor
effectively participate in the process of economic growth, in particular,
through increasing their access to employment opportunities and income-
generating assets, and raising the productivity of these assets, both
physical and human. It also aims at mitigating the transitional costs of
adjustment for the most vulnerable groups, in particular in providing a
basic network of social services such as education and health.
2.        This component will be designed as Phase I to match the duration
of the Project. It will take into consideration the institutional
weaknesses of the country that require this project be progressively
implemented in light of the limited absorptive capacity of the
aAministration. Phase I will be followed-up by a self-standing Phase II
after the Project is completed, which will be prepared with the help of the
SDA regional unit.
3.        The Phase I component project would assist the Government in
achieving three specific objectives.
i)   help the Government to design the mechanism for defining
and implementing its future social policy;
ii)   strengthen the Government's capacity to carry out and
analyze socio-econamic studies in a number of fields
eceential to help in defining of social policy; and
iii)   strengthen the Government's capacity to develop and
maintain adequate statistical data bases for identifying
and quantifying disadvantaged and vulnerable groups more
accurately and for measuring the evolution of living
conditions.
A detailed des:ription and the implementation organization are described in
the SDA Working Paper (Annex 14).
Description
4.        The component would assist the Government in three areast
i)   undertaking of a number of studies that will assess the
evolution of living conditions and help to
to define poverty alleviation programs and policies;



- 51 -                      Anxez 7
Page 2 of 6
ii)  implementing a household survey in the town of Bissau; and
iii) providing equipment and training of professional staff in
order to strengthen the institutions involved in this
component.
Undertaking of Studieis
5.        The studies will meet three specific aims:
i)   help the Government to define the way it is going to design
and implement its social policy; this will be in some sense
the preparation of Phase II;
ii) assess the living conditions of the households; and
iii) better understand the impact of the Structural Ajustment
Program (SAP) in some sectors in order to define specific
actions, projects or policies to mitigate social costs.
6.        The following program of studies has been defined:
For 1989-1990
A.   Study of Mechanisms to Define Soicial Policy in Guinea-Bissau
i) The objective of this study is to help the Government
define ways of integrating the social dimension into its
policies.
ii) The study will lead to an inventory of decision areas in
which the impact on low-income households will be taken
into account (definition of the investment program,
preparation of the operating budget, preparation of
adjustment programs, formulation of specific projects).
It will propose simple, flexible mechanisms of
interministerial coordination for reaching policy
decisions.
iii) The study will then determine the kind of information
required to enable the government to define its social
policy, particularly the basic statistical indicators on
household living conditions. It will indicate the
responsibility of each ministry in the preparation and
updating of these indicators.
B.   Social Review of the Investment Program
i)   This review, to be undertaken during the preparation of the
1989 investment program each November, is designed to



- 52 -                       Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
facilite analysis of the expected effects of the investment
program on low-income households.
ii)  The study will enable the government to assess its program
in terms of its impact on low income households and
possibly to readjust the program in order to make decisions
on behalf of the poorest groups more effective.
C.   Study on Household Living Conditions in the Town of Bissau
i)   This study will be divided in two parts and will be based
on the results of the principal survey (ILFB) of households
to be carried out in April-May 1989. The results of the
PHN survey and of the Agricultural Census and of the
household survey of 1986 will also be taken into
consideration.
ii) The first part of the study will provide an analyLis on
income and expenditures of the households in lower Bissau.
In particular the expenditure on health, education,
nutrition, etc. will be interpreted in the light of the
adjustment program. The second part will define and
identify the poorest segments of the population, in
particular those affected by the SAP. It will suggest
relevant criteria to easily identify the target groups for
different social actions.
D.   Study on the Development of the Informal Sector
i)  The deregulatSon of the economy has led to rapid
development of the informal sector, which is one of the
principal generators of employment, especially in the
towns.
ii) Better knowledge of the informal sector will make it
possible to provide support for certain Project
components, in particular the Reorientation Unit, in order
to help define the strategy for information on employment
which it is the task of that unit to establish. The study
will also help the NGOs in designing projects geared toward
employment. The study must lead to concrete conclusions in
the form of an employment profile in the informal sector,
changes in its principal activities and bottlenecks
constraining its expansion.
iii) Special attention will be given to micro-enterprises
managed by women. The socio-economic status of women
within this sector, their income level, education and other
pertinent data that could provide more detailed information
on the way they operate. The study will then make



53 -                      Annez 7
Page 4 of 6
recommendations to strengthen the development of further
micro-activity for women.
For 1990-1991
E.   AdJustment Program and Food Security
i)   The adjustment program, in profoundly altering the
structure of economic incentives, will inevitably have a
significant impact on agricultural production. However,
certain constraints may result in some farmers not
benefiting from these incentives (purchasing monopoly held
by certain traders, difficulty of access to inputs required
to i-creabe production, shortage of land, etc.). Meanwhile
in the urban areas the elimination of subsidies for certain
foodstuffs may cause hardship.
ii)  Attention must therefore be paid to the question of the
access of low-income households to food products. This
study will also analyze issues pertaining to food security,
using information from household surveys in Bissau and from
the ongoing agricultural census and various ad hoc surveys
carried out as part of research/development projects.  The
study should also provide a clearer picture regarding the
access to foodstuffs of low-income groups, and should
propose certain actions to improve the food situation in
Guinea-Bissau.
F.   Assessment of the Reinsertion of the Civil Servant
This short study will aim at a better understanding of how
the laid-off civil servants have reintegrated themselves
into economic activities. A monography based on a survey
on former civil servants will ascertain the role of social
bonds, traditional forms of support, and family links in
the process of reorientation. It will assess that role the
reorientation unit has played in the process. Information
will also be gathered on the type of activities the laid
off civil servants have started. This monography will help
in designing future reinsertion programs after the Project
is over.
7.        The results of the studies will be discussed during an annual
national seminar on poverty issues chaired by the Ministry of Planning
(HP). The technical follow-up of the studies will be done by the study
unit situated at the MP. The unit will also be responsible for
coordinating the preparation of the studies with the concerned ministries.



- 54 -                      Annex 7
Page 5 of 6
Bissau Household Survey
8.        A household survey will be carried out in March/April 1989 vith
Project financing in 1989. This survey will provide data on the revenues,
consumption, access to social services, housing and sanitation
conditions. The survey will be limLted to the town of Bissau and carried
out by the Directorate of Statistics of the MP. The analysis of this survey
will provide the basis for a study on households' living conditions in
Bissau. The undertaking of reliable surveys on the rural areas will only
be possible once cartography is completed (scheduled for 1990 as part of
the census activities). Therefore a survey of the household living
conditions in rural areas are not included in the project.
Institution Building
9.        In order to help the HP to underake the component and to prepare
Phase II, a program of training and equipment will be put in place.
However, as there are very few high-level professional staff, it is
impossible to send them for long periods of training without seriously
disrupting the functioning of the civil service. This is why the training
session will be performed in Bissau for the survey staff, as well as
participation in seminars or in study trips. Equipment (one car and one
computer) will be provided essentially to Instituto Nacional de Estudos e
Pesquisas which will be in charge of part of the studies.
ProJect Annual Review
10.       The Project has been devised to help alleviate the negative
impacts of the SAP, as will with the expected improvements in basic
infrastructure and health and educational services. The Government, with
support from the Social Dimensions of Adjustment Regional Program, will
carefully monitor the real iL.ome effects of the SAP and introduce measures
to alleviate any negative impact. As part of this monitoring process, the
Government, IDA and other donors will carry out annual reviews of project
implementation, the first one to take place by September 30, 1990. The
reviews will evaluate both technical and financial progress, with updated
estimates of timetable to complete and expected project impact.
Project Cost Simmary
11.       The project cost will be in U.S dollars and split as follows:
quick household surveys $130.500; studies: $199.500: equipment for INEPs
$38,000.
AFTIN
April 19, 1989



- 55-                      Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
Detailed costs of studies
Study theme                     Intertational      National        Costs
Consultants      Consultant       in US$
A. Mechanism to define               2                 0           30,000
Social Policy
B. Social Review of                  1                 2           18,000
Investment Program
C. Household living condi-           3                 3           49.500
tions and target group
D. Development of the                3                 8           57,000
Informal Sector
E. Adjustment Program and            2                 8           42,000
Food Security
F. Reinsertion of the Civil          -                 3            3,000
Servant
Totals         11                23          199,500
AFTIN
April 10, 1989



- 56-                     Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.        Technical assistance under the Project will focus on
establishing a Management Unit (MU) under the MP and a Technical Office
(TO) under MES (Annexes 2 and 3); strengthening the reorientation unit
under MFPT (Annex 6); helping MINSAP to prepare and implement the health
component (Annex 5); and assisting the MP to undertake studies on the
social dimension of adjustment (Annex 7).
Management Unit (MU)
2.        The MU will be responsible, inter-alia, for the followings
(i)  monitoring procurement procedures;
(ii)  monitoring disbursements of all Credit funds;
(iii) coordinating and monitoring the performance of consultants
employed under the Project;
(iv)  establishing and managing the Special Account;
(v)  monitoring overall progress in Project implementation; and
(vi)  preparing quarterly progress reports.
3.        The MU will be headed by a Project Coordinator and a National
Director, both full-time, with qualifications and managerial experience
acceptable to the Association. The MU's Project Coordinotor and National
Director will report directly to the Minister of Planning.
4.        The Project Coordinator and National Director will be jointly
responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(i)  coordinating the following activities: collecting information/
statistics, designing institutional set-up including
distribution arrangement for individual components, establishing
import/contract/fonitoring/auditing/reporting mechanisms; and
consultants' services;
(ii)  acting as the focal point of liaising among the Association,
Government agencies and the donor community;
(iii)  liaising with the designated representatives of the other
ministries responsible for Project implementation;
(iv)  briefing implementing agencies on eligibility criteria for
Project components and procurement procedures under the Project;
(v)  supervising procurement procedures including preparation of
tender documents, primarily in collaboration with the T.O. and
the Bidding Committee;
(vi)  assisting the qualified importers under the Project in obtaining
licenses, establishing letters of credit and clearing imports
through customs;



- 57 -                      Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
(vii)  ensuring expedient and efficient distribution and utilization of
imported goods according to the Project objectives;
(viii)  liaising with the HES and the TO to ensure timely and effective
conclusion and implementation of civil works contracts;
(ix) supervising and assisting the Accountant in preparing withdrawal
applications to the Association;
(x) advising and assisting all implementing agencies in ensuring the
best possible accountability for disbursements of Credit funds;
(xi) assisting all implementing agencies to prepare and submit
regular progress reports, audit reports and other reports
required under the Project;
(xii)  maintaining consolidated accounts for the entire Project and
detailed accounts for all components; and
(xiii)  managing the Special Account and the Project local account.
5.        The MU will be staffed, in addition to its Project Coordinator
and National Director, with the following:
(i) Experts.
- Accountant, who will be responsible, inter-alia for: keeping
financial accounts for all Project components, managing the
local Project account, preparing withdrawal credit
applications for signature of the authorized representatives
of MP, Ministry of Finance and BNGB and reconciling Special
Account bank statements in accordance with the Association
disbursement instructions; liaising with the designated
Department in the Ministry of Finance; approving payment of
bills, preparing expenditure accounts, quarterly reports,
annual financial plans and submission of accounts for audit.
The accountant shall also provide other necessary financial
assistance to the Project Coordinator and National Director;
- Procurement Specialist, who will be responsible, inter-alia
for: preparing all bidding documents including tendering
and contractual arrangements; packaging contracts and
supervising all relevant procurement procedures for Project
implementation; order planning and coordinating reception,
and delivery of all items to be procured under the Project
with the responsible implementing agencies included in the
quarterly progress reports a price list for all materials
and construction equipment utilized under the Project; and
iii)  - Local technical and support steff.
Technical Office (TO)
6.        The MES will be responsible for the overall coordination of all
infrastructure and site development vorks through the Directorates of Roads
and Bridges and Housing and Urban Affairs.
7.        The TO, established within HES, will be responsible in
collaboration with the MU and other agencies responsible for Project
implementation, for the management of the infrastructure works included in
the Project.



- 58 -                     Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
8.        The TO vill be responsible, inter-alia, for the followings
(i) coordinating all implementation aspects with central and local
government agencies;
(ii) preparing and supervising bidding and contract management;
(iii) preparing quarterly progress reports for the infrastructure
works and the site development components;
(iv) carrying out the survey of the residents of the Antula
neighborhood described in Annex 3; and
(v) assisting MES in the preparation, appraisal, implementation and
review of other investment projects in the infrastructure
sector.
9.        The TO will be staffed, inter-alia, with the following:
li) Experts.
- Supervision Engineer, who will be responsible, inter-alia for:
managing and coordinating all units and supervising all civil
works, in close collaboration with the local counterpart and
ensuring the coordination of all administrative aspects
related to Project implementation, including staff management,
transport and logistics;
- Contract Specialist, who will be responsible, Inter-alia for:
carrying out engineering designs and topographical surveys to
be carried out by selected contractors, preparing bidding
documents, carrying out all tender procedures, assisting the
local engineers in discharging their responsibilities under
the project, and providing advice and technical support to the
local enterprises to strengthen their capabilities for
programming and monitoring civil works;
- Accountant, who will be responsible, inter-alia, for:
carrying out all accounting procedures for TO, organizing,
ensuring and overseeing all accounting aspects related to
engineering certificates and other procedures to monitor
public works supervised by TO and providing advice and
technical support to the local enterprises to strengthen their
capabilities for programming and monitoring civil works; and
(ii) Local technical and support staff.
AFTIN
April 10, 1989



Annex 9
Page 1 of 5
GUINEA BISSAU
_____________
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
(USS '000)
COMPONENT                   LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL
A. IFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION
I .BISSAU
Drainage Networks
Zone central                            25.0       75.0      100.0
Z0na 2 (27)                             16.8       48.8       65.0
Estrada de Bor (28)                     0.5         1.5        2.0
Estrada do Bandia (80                    4.0       12.0       16.0
Rua Ponuso nc Ions (96)                  2.6        7.5       10.0
Seirros perifericoe  (106)              75.0      225.0      800.0
Subtotal                                 128.8      869.8      498.0
Streets and Sldewalks
Rue Corco So (1)                        11.8      106.5      118.8
Estrada do Ste. Luxia (14)              10.0      89.6        90.6
Rua Pans* no lana (18)                   6.8       66.8       63.1
Estrada do Sandia (20)                  18.9      1609.7     188.5
Subtotal                                  47.0      422.6      469.5
Sidewalks
Zone 1                                  10.0       90.0      100.0
Subtotal                                  10.0       90.0      100.0
Laterite Roads
Estrade de Sor (128)                    16.8       95.2      112.0
Estreda do Oran3 /Troco Antula (127     10.6       59.6       70.0
Estrada do Granja/Troco Corce So (1      8.6       20.4       24.0
a irros Periferlcos (124)               15.0       85.0      100.0
Subtotal                                  45.9      260.1      306.0
TOTAL BISSAU BASE COST                      226.1    1,142.4    1,808.C
2.BAFATA
Drainage Networks
Soirro Pont* Neov (82)                  10.0       80.0       40.0
Ruo Princlpal (174)                     4.5        13.5       18.0
Subtotal                                  14.5       48.6       68.0
Sidewalks
Av. Principal (64)                       2.7       20.7       28.4
Subtotal                                  2.7        20.7       28.4
Later it Roads
Bairro NMa  (60)                         8.6       19.9       23.4
Sal ro Pont. Nova (61)                   8.4       19.4       2.8
Bairros perifericos (66)                11.1       62.6       78.9
Subtotal                                  18.0      102.1      120.1
TOTAL SAFATA BASE COST                       86.2      168.8      201.5
8.BISSORA
Drainage Beirro Central                   15.6       48.5       62.0
Laterie Roads BSalroe Perifericos          8.5       19.6       28.1
TOTAL BISSORA BASE COST                      19.0       66.1       86.1
4.60LAVA
Drainage Zone central                     19.8       67.8       77.0
Laterite Road* BSirros
Zone central                            7.5        42.5       60.0
Zona central (26)                       15.0       85.0      100.0
Subtotal                                  22.6      127.5      160.0
TOTAL BOLALA BASE COST                       41.8      166.8      227.0
C.BUBA
i                  ~~~~~~~Drainage Belrron                     8.8       10.8       14.4
Laterite Roadr                             2.8      16.0        18.8
|                ~~~~~~TOTAL OM8 BASE COST                     8.4        2C.8       88.2



- 60-                                 Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
COWONENT                    LOCAL    FOkE1ON    TOTAL
6.CANC)U400
Drainage Zone central/Bairros             *65       25.5       J4.0
Later ite 'oJ B lei.ro                   12.1      60.4        60.6
TOTAL CANCIwMUO  LASk COST                  20.6       9U.9      114.5
T.FARIM
Draina" Zone central/Bairro              204S       60.C       61.0
Latenrte Roads Beirros                    9.0       51.0       60.0
TOTAL FARIM BASE COST                       29.5      111.6      141.0
Drainage Zone central                    15.0       45.0       60.0
Laterte Roads Ba ero                      6.60      37.4       44.0
TOTAL OUW  BASE COST                        21.6 82.4            104.0
9.qllNI4AMEL
Drainage Zone central/Dairros             6.0       16.0       24.0
Latenrlt  Roads Zone central              4.0       22.4       26.4
TOTAL qUINUANEL BASE COST                    10.0       40.4       50.4
TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE BASE COST              409.0    1,915.4   2,825.2
PWYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                     82.6      158.2      186.0
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        60.5      285.9      266.8
TOTAL WIFRASTRUCTURE COST                   490.1   2,804.6   2,797.5
B.SANITARY IMPROVEMENT/WATER SUPPLY
1.BISSAU
Sewerage Repa Ir
Hospital Silon Mend.  (179)             8.8        9.6       18.0
Morcado do Bandia (160)                 1.6        4.4        5.8
TOTAL BISSAu BASE COST                       4.7       14.1       18.8
2.BAFATA
Water Supply Extension
Sal rroe 8/4 (81)                       6.0       16.0       24.0
Zona central (78)                      26.5       79.4      106.9
TOTAL BAFATA BASE COST                       82.6       97.4      129.9
8.BISSORA
Water Supply Extension                   15.0       44.9       59.6
TOTAL BISSORA BASE COST                     16.0       44.9       59.6
4.CANCHUNG0
Water Supply Extension                   28.0       69.0       92.0
Repair of Resrvoir                        7.0       21.0       28.0
TOTAL CANCHUNCO BASE COST                   80.0       90.0      120.0
5.FARIM
Water Supply Extension                   12.5       37.5       60.0
TOTAL FARIM BASE COST                       12.5       87.6       60.0
6.GASU
Water Supply Extension                   11.1       88.2       44.8
TOTAL CUN BASE COST                         11.1       88.2       44.8
7.WJIUAMEEL
Water Supply Extension                    4.2       12.5       16.7
TOTAL CUINI4AEL BASE COST                    4.2       12.5       16.7
O.BOLAMA
Repair of Reorvoir                        7.0       21.0       28.0
TOTAL BOLAMA BASE COST                       7.0       21.0       28.0
TOTAL SANIT. IMPROV./WATER SUP. BASE COST   116.9      850.6      487.5
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                      9.4       28.1       87.4
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        14.4       48.2       57.6
TOTAL SANIT. IMPROV./WATER SUP. COST        140.0      421.0      682.5



- 61-                              Anex 9
Page 3 of 5
COIPONENT                  LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL
C.REHABILITATION OF COUUIMITY FACILITIES
1.BISSAU
Repair of Markets
Do Bandil (72)                        7.9       18.4      20.J
Bairro ulliter (78)                  17.1       40.0      57.1
Ajuda (74)                           16.5       48.1      61.6
sta. Luxta (75)                      13.9       44.2      63.1
Subtotal                               62.4      146.6     206.0
Repair of Secondary Schoolc
Liceu N*Krusa                        70.6      1S0.2     210.0
Liceu Regional I                     42.2      68.8      111.0
Liceu Regional II                    26.2       41.2      66.4
Liceu 28 do Janelro                  69.9       07.7     167.6
Subbotal                              207.1    J87.9       56.0
Repair of Kindergarten                 82.5       58.1      86.6
TOTAL BISSAU BASE COST                   802.0     in1..      888.0
2.BAFATA
Repair of Hospital                     49.5      115.5     166.0
Repai  of Primary Schools              69.4      96.9      156.8
Re"pIr of Secondary Schools            46.1      75.2      121.8
TOTAL BAFATA BASE COST                   165.0     237.6      442.6
8.BAWBADINCA
Extension of Market                    15.0      85.0       60.0
Repir of Health Center                  8.6       6.1       11.6
Rpair of Primry Schools                17.1      27.6       44.9
TOTAL BAMADINCA BASE COST                 85.5      71.0      106.6
4.BISSORA
Repair and Extension of the Market     12.2      28.4       40.5
Repair of Health Center                14.7      84.2       46.9
Repar of Secondary School              84.5      68.4       90.9
TOTAL UISSORA BASE COST                   61.4     116.9      180.8
C.BOLAMA
Repir of the Market                     8.9       9.0       12.9
Rewpr of Hospital                      41.2      96.1      187.8
Repir of Primry Schools                68.6      111.9     160.6
Repair of Secondary School             62.7      #6.1      186.6
TOTAL BOLAMA BASE COST                   166.4     808.1      469.5
O.BUBA
Repir of Wharf                          8.7      20.2       26.9
TOtAL ElBA BASE COST                       6.7      20.2       28.9
7.CANCHWIOO
Repair of the Market                  1.1       86.2       60.8
Rep Ir of Primary Schools              96.6      167.6     264.1
RepaIr of Secondary Schools            48.1      75.2      121.8
TOTAL CANCHUNO BASE COST                 167.7     266.0      425.7
8.CATIO
Repair of Secondary School             24.7      40.8       65.0
R"eir of the Market                    29.6      46.1       77.C
TOTAL CATIO BASE COST                     64.2      66.4      142.6
9.FARIM
Repir of the Secondary School           6.8      19.8       27.6
TOTAL FMIM BASE COST                       6.8      19.8       27.6
10.OABU
Repair of the Regional Hospital        70.2      168.7     288.9
Repair of Primary Schools              76.7      128.6     199.8
Repair of Secondary School             26.6      42.2       66.0
TOTAL IUW BASE COST                      171.7     829.5      501.2



-62-                                  Annex 9
Page 4 of 5
COMPONENT                  LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL
1l.1UNSOA
Repelr of Secondary School              23.0       37.5      60.6
TOTAL MANSA BASE COST                      23.0       87.6      40.6
12.qUINHAMEL
Repair and Extension of the Market       8.8       20.0      29.4
Repair of the Health Center              6.9       16.1      23.0
TOTAL qUINNAMEL BASE COST                  16.7       ;4.7      62.4
18.Repair of Primary Schools - Rural Zones
Cacheu                                  23.6       88.5      62.1
Sao Doa ngo                             81.2       60.9      82.1
Btse n-61.6                                       100.6     162.1
Buu                                     658.6      95.5     164.1
Co o                                    34.2       65.9      90.1
SUBTOTAL                               209.2      841.3     650.5
Gamamudo                                18.5       30.2      48.7
XitoI                                    2.9        4.8       7.7
Contubuel                               21.4       35.0      68.4
Galomaro                                17.1       27.8      44.9
SUBTOTAL                                59.9       97.6     167.7
Pitch.                                  29.8       48.6      78.4
Sonnco                                  17.1       27.8      4.9
PI rad                                  28.6       46.6      75.2
Boe                                      3.3        5.3       8.6
SUBTOTAL                                78.7      128.4     207.1
Caravela                                19.6       31.9      61.5
Bubaque                                 67.2      109.6     176.8
Uno                                     14.9       24.2      89.1
SUBTOTAL                               101.6      165.8     267.4
Total Primary Schools - Rural Zones        449.4     738.8   1,182.7
TOTAL REHAB.OF COUM.FACILITIES BASE COST  1,609.0   2,850.0   4,459.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   128.?      228.0      568.7
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      198.1      351.0     549.1
TOTAL REHAB.OF COMM.FACILITIES COST      1,935.9   3,428.9   6,364.8
D.SITE Di.ELOPMENT
RoadS                                  159.0      108.0     265.0
Water Supply Network                    40.8      109.2     168.0
Electricity Network                     68.7      160.3     229.0
Street Lighting                         10.6       24.5      36.0
TOTAL SITE DEVELOPEMENT BASE COST          285.0     400.0      685.0
PHYSICAL CONTINOENCIES                    22.8       32.0      64.8
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                       35.1       49.8      84.4
TOTAL SITE DEVELOPEIENT COST               842.9     481.3      824.2
E. EDUCATION
Furniture - Prmary/Secondary Schools   112.6      337.5     460.0
Equlpmnt / Others                        0.0       60.0      50.0
TOTAL EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS BASE COST      112.5      387.5     600.0
PHYSICAL CONTINOENCIES                     9.0       81.0      40.0
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                       14.4       40.9      61.3
TOTAL EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS COST           186.9     406.4      601.3



-63 -                                   Annex 9
Pfage5 of 5
COI?NENT                    LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL
F. HEALTH SPPLUES AND EQUIPMENT
Drugs Subcomponent
Opus$                                  0.0   1,200.0   l,20O,'
Mdical Suppiles / Dressings            0.0      500.0      600.0
Logietical Transport                   0.0       30.0      10.0
Educetion I Tratning Mbterilns         0.0       20.0      20.0
Subtotal                                 0.0   1,760.0   1,750.0
AIDS Subcomponent
Drugs for Aids-4elated Diseases        0.0       26.0       25.0
Blood Donor Bank Support
Logistical / Transport               0.0       16.0       10.0
Equipment and Supplies               0.0       14.0       14.0
Subtotal                                 0.0       55.0       5.60
Supplies A Equpet. for H"lth Centers     0.0       90.0      90.0
TOTAL HEALTH SUPPUES A EQPMENT.BASE COST     0.0    1,96.0   1,896.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                     0.0      151.0      151.0
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        0.0      1899.     189.J
' oTAL HEALTH SWPLIES A EqPMENT. COST        0.0   2,2as 9   2,2Jt.9
G.REORIENTATION UNIT
Equipmnt A operating expen               9.0       J4.0      48.0
Traiaing:mstrla.,tacillt.,local pore.   191.J      93.7     206.0
0.0       0.0        0.0
TOTAL REORIENTATION UNIT BASE COST         200.3      127.7     820.0
PHYSICAL CONTIMENIES                      10.10o '.'           26.2
PRICE CONTINENCIES                        23.9       18.0      87.0
TOTAL REORIENTATION UNIT COST              240.2      150.9     *91.1
H. SOCIAL DIMENSION Of AOJUSTNT
Equipment A operating *xpn              10.0       66.0      O6.0
Trotinng:mtrel.,facilit,locel pers.    2.0         26.0      51.0
0.0       0.0        0.0
TOTAL SOCIAL DIM. OF ADJUST. BASE COST      36.0       W0.0     116.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                     2.9        6.4       9.8
PRICE CONTINtENCIES                        3.6        5.6       9.1
TOTAL SOCIAL DIMIESION OF ADJUSTMENT        42.5        1.9     184.4
I .TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/TRAINING/STUDIES
Management Unit (M p)                  200.0   1,000.0   1,200.0
Technical Office (MES)                 300.0   1,000.0   1,800.0
Studies & Prep. of Ist rest. Program   180.0      400.0     58.0
T.A. - Drug distribution                 0.0       40.0      40.0
T.A. - Reorientation Unit                0.0       70.0      70.0
T.A. - Social Cis. of Adjustmnt         42.0      210.0     262.0
T.A./TRAINING/STUDIES BASE COST            722.0   2,720.0   8,442.0
PHYSICAL CONlINGEDCIES                    67.0      217.6     275.4
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                       76.4      293.0     J70.1
T.A./TRAINING/STUDIES TOTAL COST           56.2   1,231.2   4,087.5
TOTAL PROJECT OME COST                   8,491.6  10,726.8  14,217.6
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCES                    279.3    546.1   1,187.4
PRICE CONTIN:ENCIES                      416.5   1,227.6   1,044.1
TOTAL PROECT COST                        4,137.S  12,J12.0  16,999 .
_          _m          -



- 64 -               Annex 10
Page 1 of 4
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Period or Target
Action                       Responsibility      Completion Date
A.   GENERAL
1.   Finalize TOR for consultants        MP              February 1989
for MU.
2.   Finalize TOR for consultants        MES             February 1989
for TO, prepare letter of in-
vitation, draft contract and
short list.
3.   Finalize TOR for consultants        MFPT            February 1989
for the Reorientation Unit.
4.   Finalize TOR for consultants        MP              February 1989
for the Social Dimension of
Adjustment studies and house-
hold survey.
5.   Start negotiations of IDA           Government/    February 28, 1989
credit.                             Bank
6.   Ratification of negotiated          Government      March 1989
agreements.
7.   Donors' meeting.                    Government/    Hay, 1989
Bank
8.   Board                               Bank            May 16, 1989
9.   Signature of TO contract with       HES             May-June 1989
consulting firm.
10.  Signature of MU contracts with      HP              May-June 1989
consultants.
11.  Installation of MU in appro-        MP              June 1989
priate premises, with basic
equipment and vehicles.
12.  IDA credit effectiveness.           Bank            September 1989



- 65 -               Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
Period or Target
Action                       Resgonsibility      Completion Date
13.  Installation of TO with             MES             August 1989
team, basic equipment
and vehicles.
14.  Carry out a first-year review       Government/    September 1990
of Project implementation.          Bank/Donors
15.  Review and agree on the pro-        MES/Bank        September 1990
cedures for allocating and
having access to legal title
to serviced plots.
B.   INFRASTRUCTURE AND SITE
DEVELOPMENT
1.   Define procedures for bid evalu-   MESIMP           April 1989
ation and contract approval.
2.   Detailed design and costs of        HES/Consul-    May 1989
works completed by consultants      tants
under PPF.
3.   Tender documents for Package I      MESIMP          May 15, 1989
of works completed and sent to      Consultants
Bank for review.
4.   Package I bids received, evalu-    NES/MP           June 30, 1989
ated and sent to Bank for review.  Consultants
5.   Package I contracts awarded.        MESIMP          August 15, 1989
6.   Package I works comnence.           NES/Contrac-   August 25, 1989
tors
7.   Successive packages of work to      HESIMP/Con-    December 1989 -
follow Package I at intervals of   sultants and   January 1992
about 6 months.                     Contractors.
8.   Supervision of workr..       MES/Consul-    August 1989-
tants          Jule 1992
9.   Carry out a survey of the present  NES/Consul-    June 1990
residents in the Antula neighbor-  tants
hood
10.  Agree on procedures for allocating Government/    September 1990
plots and the measures to recover  Bank
the costs of site development



- 66 -                Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
Period or Target
Action                       Responsibility      Completion Date
C.   EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
1.   Prepare lists and bidding           MEIHP           July-December 1989
documents.
2.   Tender and Contract Award           MPIME
Package 1 - Urban Primary Schools                   January-April 1990
Package 2 - Secondary Schools                       June-September 1990
Package 3 - Rural Primary School                    November 1990 -
February 1991
3.   Fabrication and Delivery            MP/ME
Manufacturers
Package 1 - Urban Primary Schools                   May-December 1990
Package 2 - Secondary Schools                       October 1990-
June 1991
Package 3 - Rural Primary Schools                   March 1991-December
1991
D.  HEALTH SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT
1.   Preparation of list of              MINSAP|MP       February-April 1989
priority essential medica-
tions; ascertain suppliers'
prices; py:eparation of import
guidelines; acquisition.
2.   Preparation of Package I of         MINSAP/MP       June-July 1989
supplies and equipment.
3.   Delivery of Package I               MP/MINSAP       September-December
1989
4.   Successive packages of              MP/MINSAP       January 1990-June
supplies and equipment                              1992
follow Package I at intervals
of about six months.
E.   REORIENTATION UNIT
1.   Finalize TOR for                    MFPT            April 1989
consultants.
2.   Sign contract with                  MFPT            may 1989
consultants.



- 67                 Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
Period or Target
A&ction                     Responsibl ity      Completion Date
3.  Prepare documents                   MFPT            May-June 1989
for acquisition of
supplies and equipment.
4.  Unit installed with                 MFPT            August 1989
equipment and technical
assistance.
F.   SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT
1.  Quick household Survey Studies.    DGE, MP          March-July 1989
2.   Informal sector.                    Study office,  June-December 1989
MP
3.   Social policy definition.           Study office,  October-November 1989
MP
4.   Impact of the Investment Program   Study office,  November 1989
on the poor.                       MP
5.  Target groups for social policies. Study office,  January-February 1990
MP
6.  Assessment of the living             Study office,  November-December 1969
conditions.                        MP
7.   Food security.                      Study office,  March-August 1990
MP
8.  Women's participation in mir -       Study office,  October-November 1990
businesses.                        MP
9.  Assessment of reorientation          Study office,  January-February 1991
program of civil servants.         MP
10.  Seminar of the Social               Study office,  March 1991
Dimension of Adjustment            MP
AFTIN
April 10, 1989



GUIN" BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRA1STRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Procuresmnt Arrangement. /
(USS '000)
Procurement Methods
Principal                                                         Total
Number of    Responsible                                                      Value of
Project Category / Elemet                  Packages     Agency/Dept.             LCB                 Other              Procurement
Infrastructure Rehabilitation                119           MES                 4,275.8              4,449.8              8,726.1
(446.8)             (289.2)              (736.1)
Site Development                               2           MES                   828.1                                     826 1
(0.0)
Educational Materials
Furniture                                   6           ME                                         548.0                643.6
(0.0)
Books, Teching Alds and Equipment           1           ME                                          57.7                 67.7
(0.0)
Essential Drugs/Medical Suppliee/Equipt.    6            MIDNSAP                                    2,286.9 b/           2,286.9
(0.0)
Reorientation Unit                             1          MFPT                                        891.2                891.2
(45.2)              (46.2)         oo
Social Dimension of Adjustment                 1          MP                                          184.4                184.4
(184.4)              (184.4)
Vehicles Office Equipment and Suppile          6          MP                                          22986                229.6
(22986)             (229.6)
Operating Costs for Project Management         6          MP                                          229.6                229.6
(229.6)             (229.6)
Technical Assistance / Training / Studies
Management Unit                             1          MP                                        1,196.8              1,196.8
(1,196.8)            (1,196.8)
Technical Office                            1          MES                                       1,317.2              1,317.2
(1,817.2)           (1,317.2)
Studies A Prop. of Infrast. Program         1     MES (DGUH & DOEP)                                686.8                685.8
(685.8)              (686.8)
T.A. - Drug distribution                    1         MINSAP                                        47.3                 47.8
(47.8)               (47.3)
T.A. - Reorientation Unit                   1          MFPT                                          2.7                (82.7
(82.7)               (82.7)
T.A. - Social Dimension of Adjustment       1          MP                                          297.7                297.7 .7
(297.7)              (297.7)        3
Total                                                                          5,101.4             11,898.0             16,999.8          X
(446.8)           (4,664.2)            (5,O00.)      m
n/ IDA share In parentheses.
b/ Depending upon the requirements competitive bidding;
and In emrgencies due te epidmies or natural
disasters from UN Agencles/othere as appropriate.



GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule a/
Cuuulative Disb ursemets
ug$S million)
Apprai sal
Quarter                    Appraisal               Estimate
Ending                     Estimate                   Ii)
FY89                                                                              5
June                        0.00                       0                 -z
0
FY90                                                                              4
I~~~~~~
Seteeber                  0.051                                                                                              ,R
Deceeber                    0.20
narch                       0.45                       9                                                                   /
June                        0.75                      15                  z
FY91                                                                       2 
September                   1.O5                      21                 m       2
Deceeber                    1.50                      30
"arch                       2.05                      41
Juno                        2.75                      55
531                
FY92
Septusber                   3.30                      6b                  C)
Deceuber                    3.90                      76                         0_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Ptarch,                     4.25                      95                         0---,
Jane                        4.65                      93                           90                91                92                93                 9y
flSCAL YR
FY93
Septeaber                   4.J5                      97
Deceaber                    , 95                      99
Narch                       5.00                     100
i/ Assuaed Soard Presentations April 1909.



- 70-                       Annes 13
Page 1 of 7
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Infrastructure Components
1.      The methodology used to make an economic analysis of several
components was the one recomsended by Squire and Van der Tak (Economic
Analysis of Projects, Worled Bank, 1975).
2.      Converting the physical component of the global investment (materials
and equipment) from market prices to economic efficiency prices was done with
one general factor--for national materials and equipmint--developed from the
following formulas
M + X
FGC     -------------------------
(M + TARM) + (X + SUBX)
where
FGC   -  general conversion factor
M     -  imports (cif)
X     =  exports (FOB)
TARM  -  duties on imports
SUBX  -  subsidies for exports
The conversion factor can also be obtained from a simple comparison of the
figures for the official exchange rate (TOC) and the shadow exchange rate
(TCS). The latter is computed basically from current exchange rates in the
unofficial market. The average FGC value for imports, exports, duties on
imports and net subsidies for exports for 1985, 1986 and 1987 ie 0.8722.
Another computation can be made from the following formulas
FGC - TOCITCS
This computation yields an average of 0.865, using the Portuguese escudo, the
French franc and the U.S. dollar 11 as hard currencies in the unofficial
market. The first figure was the one used. The individual efficiency prices
were computed from the following formulas
Efficiency prices - domestic prices x FGC
_; Figure for October 2, 1968s
TOC        TCS
Port. Es. (100)         930       1,100
PF (100)            22,360       26,000
US$                   1,378       1,550



- 71 -                         Annex 13
Page 2 of 7
3.      The economic efficiency prices for the imported materials and
equipment are the individual c.i.f. import figures at international market
prices.
4.      The wages component was broken down into skilled and unskilled labor.
Considering the present situation in the unskilled labor market (high
unemployment and underemployment) 21, an opportunity cost of zero was
considered acceptable. From the social standpoint, there is no loss in
transferring workers from their present unemployment to the infrastructure
rehabilitation program, presuming that the unskilled worker is recruited from
the ranks of the unemployed.
S.      As for skilled personnel, determining their opportunity cost centered
on the following concepts:
-    Data from the General Directorate of Statistics shows a range of
40,000 to 100,000 PG in wage for a skilled worker, depending on
whether he works for the public or the private sector. The
average figure used was 60,000 PG monthly:
-    the wage paid by the Project, assuming that this figure
translates more faithfully to an eventual situation of scarcity
in this labor market. For the present case, the figure used was
75,000 PG monthly;
-    the wage computed by using a specific factor taken from the
formula:
M               C
FEC - -------- FGC - ------- FGC
w              U
where:
m  -  nominal wage in previous activity
W  -  actual wage in project
C  -  higher consumption permitted by higher wage
21  The official unemployment rate is 10.6X.  This rate has surely worsened by
application of the National Structure Adjustment Program.  It would not be far
from the truth to put total unemployment of the labor force (unemployed plus
the underemployed) at 40X.



- 72                           Annez 13
Page 3 of 7
The market wage is determined in consideration of the fact that additional
income is obtained. Even if wages of about 100,000 PG monthly are paid, a
minimum basket of non-durable goods for the average famlly would come to
72,500 PG. On the other hand, it was assumed that the average propensity to
consume is close to the marginal propensity considered in the formula C/W.
Thus the value taken was 84.4Z, calculated from the average family spending
figure and the GDPcf from the National Accounts of Guinea-Bissau for 1985,
1986 and 1987. Accordingly, the opportunity cost is computed by:
COTQ  -  Market wage x FEC
60                12.66
and FEC - -------- x 0.8722 + -------- x 0.8722 - 0.8449
75                 75
where, finally,
COTQ - 72,500 x 0.8449 - 61,258.8 PG
This was the figure used in computing the social cost of skilled
labor.
6.      The economic costs and benefits were evaluated at constant 1988
prices. The costs included sums for the components discussed in the preceding
points plus a margin to cover social benefit expenses and profits for carrying
out the activities of the program. The methodology presented above covers all
the cost items of the program. With respect to the benefits, some differences
exist in determining and computing them.
Markets
7.      The identification of the benefits rested on the following premises:
-    No transactions take place during rainy hours:
-    The added space will be filled by an adequate number of
vendors;
-    The supply arising from better coverings and larger
sales area will generate a demand of equal value (a highly
debatable presumption considering the economic austerity
imposed by the Structural Adjustment Program).
8.      The most significant benefit comes in the form of higher value of
transactions in the several markets, as follows:
Transactions - Average daily transaction x No. of days of rain
for the coverings improvement projects.
Transactions - Average daily transaction x No. of vendors, for
the useable sales area enlargement projects.



- 73 -                          Annex 13
Page 4 of 7
9.      One observation worth noting is that the improvement works could lead
to lower sales during execution. While true as a hypothesis, these losses
were thought to have no practical effect. The reason is that even while the
works are under way, the vendors will find some way of doing business because,
in the final analysis, their daily survival depends on it.
10.     This component of SIRP accounts for 62 of the global program.  It
will be implemented in the urban areas of Bissau, Bambadinca, Bi%.sora, Bolama,
Canchungo, Farim and Quinhamel. The useful life was put at 5 years. The rate
of economic return to the subprogram was an estimated 78.7Z (Table 13.1).
Street Improvements
11.     The street improvements component takes 13? of the global cost.  It
encompasses the repaire of several streets of Bissau and Bafata (asphalted
streets in particular, which have the highest investment cost).
Considering the characteristics of the street sections in question, the
essential parameters were as follows:
-    Traffic on the street
-    Wear and tear per kilometer
-    Fuel consumption on deteriorated sections (consumption
differential parameter)
12.     The benefits produced by the improvement works which can be measured
consist of:
-    reduced tire wear
-    reduced fuel consumption
-    lower repair and maintenance expenses
13.     Time is an important variable in more modern and developed economies.
However, it was not considered in the economic evaluation of this subprogram.
The useful life was put at 5 years. The rate of economic return was
estimated at 15X. This can be considered a minimum because certain benefits,
time and any human lives saved, were not counted (Table 13.2)
Urban Improvement of Lots
14.     The Antula urban project consistd of urban improvements to 713
parcels of land on an area of 46.6 hectares.  This component of the program
accounts for 72 of the global investment.  The urban development of Antula
will start with building a construction area complete with piped water,
streets, electricity and common recreation spaces.  The land subdivision will
take several forms:
-    106 lots of 550 m2 already in place (14.82 of the total)
-    298 new lots of 450 m2 (41.8? of the total)
-    233 new lots of 375 m2 (32.7Z of the total)
-    2 new lots of 330 m2
-    74 lots of 780 m2 (10.4? of the total)



- 74 -                         Annex 13
Page 5 of 7
15.     The conclusion drawn from a quick and small survey of certain Bissau
neighborhoods is that a lot of 350 to 375 m2 sells for an average of 400,000
PG (USS 290). After improvement, however, such a lot would bring
substantially more. Its market price was projected at between 2,000,000 PG
and 2,100,000 PG (USS 1,090 to USS 1,300). It was also considered reasonable
to think that the appraised values of first phase lots would be higher than
the average since they voculd have a good location, facing on the Antula road.
The coefficients for increased appraised land values were 5.5 for the first
phase of the project and 4 for the remaining phases (for an average of 4,75).
The basic prices used varied in accordance with the type of lot, ranging
between 862.5 and 1,092.5 PG per m2.
16.     Using these assumptions the computations led to a total
benefit--measured by value added through improvement of each lot--in the
sum of US$619,600 in the first year and US$419,300 in the second. The
economic rate of return was 26.01 (Table 13.3).
Global Program
17.     The components whose values were put in economic terms together
account for 262 of the total. The overall rate of economic return is 331
(Table 13.4).
APTIN
April 19, 1989



- 75-                                Anne  13
Page 6 of 7
TABLE 18.1
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS - MARKETS
(constant 196 prices)
Years                                             US, 108
VARIABLES              0                 2        8        4        _       0        7
Social cost
of Investmnt         19.5   802.1   911.5         -        -        -       -        -
Total costs          199.5   802.1   911.5        -        -        -       -        -
Increase of solos      -      212.4   877.8   61S.0   561.0   235.0   121.5          -
Total benefits         -      212.4   $77.8   515.0   515.0   286.0   121.6          -
Total net
bnef its            -190.5    69.7   286.8   616.0   516.0   236.0   121.5           -
Internal rate of      78.7      -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Economic return (3)
TABLE 18.2
COST-4ENEFIT ANALYSIS - STREET IPROVEWENTS
(constant 1986 prices)
Years                                             USS 10
VARIABLES              =        1        2        8        4               6        7
Social cost
of In vestment       678.6   629.7   154.9        -        -       -        -        -
Total cot            57t8.6   529.7   154.9       -        -       -        -        -
Increes  of sales      8.8   144.5   315.4   879.1   879.1   879.1   246.7    6.7
Total benefits         3.8   144.5   816.4   879.1   879.1   879.1   246.7    68.7
Total net
bnef Its            -575.8  -886.2   160.5   879.1   879.1   870.1   246.7    68.7
Internal rats of      15.0      -        -        -        -        -
Economic return (X)
I1
,



- 76 -                            Annex 13
Page 7 of 7
TAKE 18.6
COST40EIT MALSIS - ANU  PSOECTS
Years                                           we 
VARIABLE              _        1               8                I i
Social cost
of I vestmnt        687.4   661.0      -        -        -       -        -
Increse of valu*      -    106.9       -        -       -        -        -
Tote l bneftt         -    106.90           -       -        -       -            -
Tot* I not
bene Ito           -587.4   677.9      -        -       -        -        -       -
Internal ate of      26.0
Economic return (X)
TAKE 18.4
cOST-(UN NULY   -  WhL
(eee.tea'v 166 ptie)
Veers                              ~~~~~~~useio$
VRIABLES              9        1       I        I                I i              1
Social cost
of Investment       1815.5  1192.6   246.4          -            -        -       -
Totsl Ibenef.         8.8   1 .86    608.2  611.1   68.1   686.1   116.1    0I.7
TotsI net
benefit.          -1812.2   108.0   446.6   8.1   686.1  06.1    6.1    66.7
Internal rate of     82.6
Economic return (N)
AFTIN
Apr1I 10, 1069
I
l



Annex 14
-77-                  Page 1 of 1
GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
Documents in the Proiect File
1.   Decree No. 1/GM/MES of November 28, 1988, establishing the Technical
Office, under the Ministry of Social Infrastructure.
2.   Report on 'Assessment of the Social Dimensions of Structural
Adjustment in Sub-Sahara Africa.,
3.   Basic Infrastructure Study by CESO Consultants, November 1988.
Twelve volumes:
1.   Sumario do Programa Base
2.   Si.;tese do Programa Base
3.   DieLribuicao e Quantificacao das Obras!Listagens
4.   Descricao das Obras/Fichas
S.   Descricao das Obras No Dominio da Educacao/Fichas
6.   Descricao das Obras No Dominio da Saude/Fichas
7.   Programacao das Obras
8.   Diagnostico do Sector da Construcao Civil
9.   Modelo de Implementacao do Pasi'Infraestruturas
10. Enquadramento Jurico - Institucional
11. Urbanizacao da Area de Antula
12. Analise Economica
4.   Education Component Working Paper
5.   Health Component Working Paper
6.   Social Dimension of Adjustment Working Paper
7.   Foral Municipal, Bissau, Guinea Bissau
p.



IBRD
7           *b~~~030                         1Sa                                                             tO                               1430                              lOnn
f                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S E N  E G  A  L
SENEGAL~lumew
!#/jf3 d                                                      S  U  tW Ne e i / =, /                                                   S
RMAURITR<  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lse,.                                                      <             TOMBA  m rinag00teSystem nado
A~~~~~~~~~~
AM HE -<\tM A LI                 s;t8tfa3                   m40 t76r~        ~~               ~      ~~~~~~S Z;                             Cr mnt  aiite  ear:1                       BururCtpita
B I S SA U  T L A NATRICC1 f                              I   P   E   z   A   C   O                                    v                                    M     M a r k ets                       i y   N atio n alAC a p il
MdOn Mll                 (41Oh
CM:n_kf CACH  8t                                                       , S                                                                  S HE
q-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SOCIAL ANDINFRAISTRUCU
~0540r0P~0oOt/4XO30030I JA G                                                                                                                                          RELIEF PROJECT
00    ~     ~    ~ ~     (~~~~-'    &.tra~~~~~~no6        .                                                 e                                    Location of Project Components
00's 13000300d00'1E.3.  SL/IAQUE1/>  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ereI  ~~~~~kEt~~~mr~~~                                                                               Feederrucu  RoadsRad
MAURITANIA       S           ~r'-tTOMBALI                                                                                      A     Drainage Systems                   -    Unpaved Roa-
SENEGAL                   *w~~~~~~~i    ORN                                                                                                          Street Improverrents              -    Paved Roads
AMBIA                                \~~5C~'-~----MALI               tOA OU UWater Supply Extensions                                                                                             0   Selected Town
I IE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Community Farilities Reoars:                                                                                (D)  Region Capita'
GUIEA                           A  R  C H   I PELIA   G                                                                                       M      Markets                                 National Cpit
ERRA   0     5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~  "'~~~~~'~~~ so   so    a    so ~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                        Schools                                  Region Bound
rArANrI   L ONEOIRE                                                            1     5     5                                                               H     Health Care Centers                    international Br
Q     Other
FEB3RUA



GUINEA-BISSAU
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE RELIEF PROJECT
CITY OF BISSAU
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
1a  PRIORIDADE/AVALIACAAO FINAL
Urbanized areas
Swamps
Infrastructure and Sanitation:
Street improvements
-:::::  Earth roads rehabilitation
Drainage systems
-MSewers                                                                             N
Community Facilities Rehabilitation:
[] Secondary school
o  Kndergartens
o     Markets
*     Siaughterhouse
international boundaries
a    500    1000
vGUINEA-BISUn                         the
C         aadu tn thsse 1 Eend                       sh
GUINEA                   -
co       161        5          4        0h  onnt.
coI               



