Page  1
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2020 GUB
                                                              (Amendment)
                            Agreement Amending
                       Development Credit Agreement
                (Social and Infrastructure Relief Project)
                                  between
                         REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 8, 1992
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2020 GUB
                                                              (Amendment)
                            AGREEMENT AMENDING
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Social and Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Project), dated June 29, 1989 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of the project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); and
      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project by increasing the
amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount
in various currencies equivalent to one million nine hundred and fifty
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,950,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       Amendments of the Development
                             Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended by eliminating the "and" at the end of Subsection (m), substituting
"; and" for "." at the end of Subsection (n) and adding a new Subsection (o)
as follows:
Page  2
            "(o) 'Amending Agreement', means the Agreement Amending
      Development Credit Agreement (Social and Infrastructure Relief
      Project), between the Borrower and the Association."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement in
amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
      on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
      Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
      equivalent to five million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
      Rights (SDR 5,800,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an original
      amount in various currencies equivalent to three million eight
      hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,850,000)
      (the Initial Financing); and (b) an additional amount in various
      currencies equivalent to one million nine hundred and fifty thousand
      Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,950,000) (the Additional Financing)."
      Section 1.03. Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended by replacing the date "June 30, 1993" with the date "December 31,
1993".
      Section 1.04. An additional proviso is added at the end of Section
2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
            "; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the
      Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the
      date of the Amending Agreement."
      Section 1.05. The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as set forth in Schedule 1
to this Amending Agreement. The percentages of expenditures to be financed
as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Amending Agreement shall be applicable
in respect of payments made for expenditures incurred on or after the date
of this Amending Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                        Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not becme effective until evidence
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association
that the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of
counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower,
that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of
its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending
Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending
Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties
hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date
for the purposes of this Section. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate
under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not
been executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  3
                  REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                  By /s/ Alfredo Cabral
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated                % of
                                (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                        SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Civil Works                2,850,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    95% of local
                                                    expenditures
(2) Vehicles, equip-                 780,000        100%
    ment, materials
    and supplies
(3) Consultants,                   1,710,000        100%
    services, training,
    studies, surveys
    and audits
(4) Operating costs                  360,000        100%
    of:
    (a) MU;
    (b) TO; and
    (c) Reorientation
        Unit
(5) Unallocated                      100,000
        TOTAL                      5,800,000
