Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16754
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
June 24, 1997
Social Sector Unit
PAKISTAN RESIDENT MISSION
&
Population and Human Resource Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  = Pak Rupees (Rs)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 40.00 (1997)
ECU 1.00 = Rs. 46.32 (1997)
Can $ 1.00 = Rs. 29.25 (1997)
German Mark 1.00 = Rs. 23.90 (1997)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July I - June 30
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
ATC               =       Apprenticeship Training Center
CIDA              =       Canadian International Development Agency
CMC               -       Center Management Committee
CTA               =       Chief Technical Adviser
DCA               =       Development Credit Agreement
DMT               =       Directorate of Manpower & Training (Provincial)
EQUIPRO           =       Technical Co-operation Equipment and Subcontracting Branch, ILO
EC               =        European Economic Community/European Union
ECNEC             =       Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
G-I, 11, HI1              Grades of Skilled Workers
GTZ               =       Gesellschaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit
GVI               -       Government Vocational Training Institute
ICB               =       International Competitive Bidding
ICR               -       Implementation Completion Report
IDA                       I lnternational Development Association
ILO               =       International Labour Organization
LCB              =        Local Competitive Bidding
LIB               =       Limited International Bidding
M&E               =       Monitoring & Evaluation
NSTI              =       National Staff Training Institute
NTB               =       National Training Board
NTBu              =       National Training Bureau
NTDI              =       National Training Development Institute
NVTS              =       National Vocational Training System
NWFP              =       North West Frontier Province
O&M              =        Operation and Maintenance
PAKPWD            =       Pakistan Public Works Department
PCR               =       Project Completion Report
PTB               =       Provincial Training Board
SBDs              =       Standard Bidding Documents of World Bank
SDC               =       Skill Development Council
SSU               =       Social Sector Unit
STI               =       Staff Training Center
TA                =       Technical Assistance
TTC               =       Technical Training Center
UNDP              =       United Nations Development Program
VTC               =       Vocational Training Institute
WETU             =        Women Employment & Training Unit
WTTC              =       Women Technical Training Center
Vice President:                      Mieko Nishimizu
Director (Acting):                   Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division Chief:                      Barbara Herz
Staff Member:                        Bashir Parvez



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paee No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION   SUMMARY    ....................................                                                                          i
MAIN  REPORT   ............................................                                                                           I
Project Identity    .........................................                                                               I
Project Background  .......................................                                                                 I
Project Objectives and  Description   .............................                                                         1
Initial Project Design and Organization    ..........................                                                       2
Implementation  Experience Under the Original Project  .................                                                    3
Project Restructuring  Exercise  ................................                                                           3
Implementation  Experience Under the Restructured Project  ..............                                                   4
Component-wise Project Performance   ...........................                                                            5
Other Project Aspects   ...................................                                                             8
Civil Works Implementation   .............................                                                         8
Procurement of Equipment  ..............................                                                           9
Skill Development Councils   ............................                                                         9
Center Management Committees   ..........................                                                          10
Social Studies Module  .................................                                                           10
Project Results  ........................................                                                               10
Achievement of Project Objectives   .........................                                                      10
Impact of Project  ....................................                                                            10
Project Sustainability  ..............1...................                                                          11
Overall Assessment .1.1.............................    11
IDA's Performance  ...................................                                                             12
Borrower's Performance    ...............................                                                          12
Lessons Learnt ...............  13
STATISTICAL TABLES:
Table    1:  Summary of Assessments  ..............                                   I        .............                14
Table    2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits   ..........................                                                        15
Table    3:  Project Timetable  .................................                                                           16
Table    4:  Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative  Estimated and Actual  ...                                     .....         17
Table    5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation    ......                                      ..........            18
Table    6:  Key  Indicators for Project Operation  .....................                                                   22
Table    7:  Studies included in Project  ...........................                                                       24
Table   8A:  Project Costs  ...................................                                                             25
Table   8B:  Project Financing   ................................                                                           26
Table    9:  Status of Legal Covenants   ...........................                                                        27
Table   10:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  .............                                                   30
Table   11:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs  .........................                                                       31
Table   12:  Bank Resources:  Missions    ..........................                                                        32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Appendixes:
A.    Last Mission Aide-Memoire of January 1996 .......................                       34
B.    Borrower's Contribution to ICR  ...............................                         62
C.    Co-financiers Contribution to ICR (none received)  ...................                  67
D.    Features of National Training Policy ............................                       68
E.    Draft Amendment in NTB Legislation  ...........................                         70
F.    Draft Amendment in Apprenticeship Legislation .....................                     71
G-a. Fellowships .............   72
G-b. Consultancies .............    74
H.    Features of New Curricula  ..................................                           77






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (CR 1670-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Vocational Training Project in
Pakistan for which Credit No. 1670-PAK in the amount of US$ 40.2 million/SDR 36.6 million equivalent
was approved on 03/25/1986 and made effective on 04/01/1987.
The Credit closed on December 31, 1996, instead of the original closing date of June 30, 1995. There
was one full extension of 12 months in the closing date, to June 30, 1996, and a partial further extension
of six months to allow payment for equipment ordered whose delivery had been delayed. Final
disbursement took place on May 14, 1997 at which time a balance of US$ 7.58 Million/SDR 5.45 Million
was cancelled.   Co-financing for the project was provided by UNDP, European Economic
Community/European Union (EC), CIDA of Canada and GTZ of Germany.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Bashir Parvez (SSU of SA1PK) in collaboration with Mr. Paul Blay of
SAlPH of the South Asia Region. Messrs Z.R. Maribbay and Liam Owens (Consultants) joined the
Completion Mission and assisted in the preparation of ICR. The borrower provided comments and
contributed its own assessment which is included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission (January,
1996) and completed during a special mission (March 24 - April 11, 1997). It is based on material in
the project file.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Second Vocational Training Proiect
(Credit 1670-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1. This was the second IDA project in the vocational training sector in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The project was designed to complement and supplement the First Vocational Training Project (Credit
1109-PAK), which closed on December 31, 1987. The project became effective on April 1, 1987 and
closed on December 31, 1996. The project was restructured in 1993. When the closing date was first
extended, in May 1995, SDR 3.2 million (US$ 5.0 million) was cancelled. The project achieved mixed
success in achieving its objectives and the sustainability of sectoral and policy-related project gains
remains in doubt.
Project Objectives
2. The main objective of the project was to improve the quality and expand the capacity of the National
Vocational Training System (NVTS) to meet skilled and semi skilled manpower requirements for the
industrial and agricultural/rural sectors. The enabling objectives were to: (i) increase the capacity of
existing Vocational Training Centers (VTCs) and establish new VTCs; (ii) expand the apprenticeship/in-
plant training programs; (iii) strengthen instructor training program; (iv) strengthen the capacity of the
National Training Board (NTB) and the Provincial Training Boards (PTBs); (v) establish a pilot and
experimental component of Women Technical Training Centers (WTTCs); and (vi) assist the Government
in establishing a clear policy for cost recovery.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
3. The project was designed to continue and build upon the work undertaken under the first project. It
was timely, but its original objectives were too general, and they unwittingly led to the expansion of
supply-driven, institutions-based training in the public sector. The project design was over-ambitious,
and took insufficient account of limited implementation capacity. To overcome these problems, the
restructured project rightly reduced the physical scope of institution-based training components, and
encouraged the diversification of enterprise-based training. The restructured project, however, under-
estimated the time and effort needed to develop the institutional base for implementing the reforms. The
establishment of prototypes of women training programs in modern, income-generating skills was well-
conceived in view of growing marginalization of women employability as a result of excessive reliance
on traditional training in stichcraft. Finally in light of dwindling operation and maintenance resources
the objective of partial cost recovery addressed the need of the hour.



Implementation Experience
4. The project started slowly due to delayed acquisition of sites for new VTCs, centralized and
inefficient construction management, continuing gaps among project management staff and lack of
commnunication and coordination between federal and provincial implementation agencies. Because of poor
implementation record the project remained in the problem projects category for more than 4 years and was
upgraded only in 1994. Due to major changes in the requirement of the job market and keeping in view the
limitations of implementation capacity, the project was restructured in 1992-93 with focus on reduced physical
infrastructure and greater induction of employers and provincial governments in project implementation. The
project restructuring was based on a comprehensive training needs assessment study conducted by external
consultants. The restructured project was approved formally by the Government in February 1994 and the
Development Credit Agreement was amended in March 1994. The post-restructuring implementation of the
project developed a relatively faster pace.
5. The Credit disbursements trailed the appraisal estimates by a wide margin for most of the project's life.
Due to major deviations from IDA's Procurement Guidelines, construction of 3 new VTCs was excluded from
IDA's financing and further in line with the revised requirements of the restructured project an amount of
SDR 3.21 million (about 5 million dollars) was cancelled. At the close of the project an amount of about
SDR 5.45 million out of the revised Credit Allocation of SDR 33.39 million remained un-utilized and was
accordingly cancelled. The total project cost is estimated to be Rs. 2880 million (US$ 110.36 million),
which corresponds closely to the revised PC-I cost of Rs. 2882 million.
Results
6. The project achieved mixed results. The new VTCs could not be operationalized by project closure due
to delayed construction, but the existing VTCs increased their enrolment capacity by almost 50% through
provision of new equipment, introduction of additional trades and extension of second shift programs. The
instructor training capacity quadrupled but the backlog of untrained instructors could be reduced by only
40%. The apprenticeship training capacity doubled, but its full potential could not be achieved due to delay
in the promulgation of revised legislation. The training boards were restructured but without legislated
empowerment they failed to deliver their full normative charter. A new national training policy and a broad-
based training curriculum were developed, but their implementation remained slow. New employer-led
councils and committees were created to decentralize and diversify training provisions but their sustainability
is unassured. Although women training pilot in income-generating skills commenced in only two of the five
planned WTTCs, its acceptance and success have enhanced the potential of its replicability. The planned
support to the informal sector through mobile training did not materialize, but in-service workers benefitted
extensively through the trade testing and re-training facilities set up under the project. A monitoring and
evaluation infrastructure was established, but it has yet to develop full capacity for assembling and updating
labour market information. Short, market-oriented courses launched by the Skill Development Councils
(SDCs) and Center Management Committees (CMCs) eminently established the potential for cost recovery,
but this successful experience was not transferred to regular, full-time training programs. Substantial
technical assistance resources were invested in management and staff development, but frequent changes in
top decision-makers have inhibited adequate returns to the planning, policy-making and managerial processes
of the NVTS. On balance, in addition to significant capacity building in physical and qualitative terms the
project has laid a foundation for sectoral reforms, but their full realization lies in the future.
- ii -



Achievement of pro*ect objectives
7. In physical terms the project achieved about 70% of the capacity expansion targets and about 60% of
quality improvement targets. A significant success of the project lies in creating elements of an enabling
environment for sustained growth and development of the training sector. Whether this enabling environrment
will add up and deliver will depend upon how the institutional gains of the project are sustained by the
Government in the post-project period. Given that construction was still underway at the closing date, the
new participatory structures were being developed, and that funds remained in the Credit, a limited further
extension of the Credit life could have enhanced the sustainability of project outcomes at a crucial stage in
the evolution of the training sector. However, the long project life spread over 10 years and its lack of fully
satisfactory implementation progress did not justify a departure from the current Bank policy on Credit
closure. A significant failure of the project was the non-mobilization of partial cost recovery from trainees
of regular programs. Another failure was the non-mobilization of direct support to the informal sector
envisaged under the restructured project.
Sustainability of the Project Gains
8. Increased budgetary constraints make it unlikely that adequate Operation & Maintenance (O&M) resources
would be available to service the expanded infrastructure unless supported by a policy of partial cost
recovery. Without empowering the NTB and the PTBs through amended legislation, their normative charter
is likely to remain undelivered. Similarly unless the existing legislation on apprenticeship training is revised
to make it less coercive and more voluntary and incentive-based, these programs are unlikely to mobilize full
capacity. The sustainability of the SDCs and the CMCs is also unassured without continued public sector
support for another 2-3 years and without a decisive move towards decentralized management. On the other
hand the instructor training infrastructure, the trade testing mechanisms and various national standing
committees have developed the intrinsic strength to survive and remain productive. Women training in non-
traditional trades is gradually developing firm roots and it possesses a good potential for replication.
Overall Assessment of Outcomes
9. On balance the Project outcomes were unsatisfactory, measured against the original targets. However,
achievements since restructuring under the reoriented objectives gave partially satisfactory outcomes at
closing, with the promise of more satisfactory outcomes in the post-project period.
Summary of Findings and Major Lessons Learnt
10. If a Vocational Training project were to be designed today to meet the (laudable) objectives of this
operation, it would take a very different form. The following are the major findings and the key lessons
learnt:
* Public sector interventions in the training sector should essentially be catalytic in nature to create
a participative environment in which the training providers and the employers in tandem can plan and
deliver training programs in response to the market forces - the corollary being that public sector
training monopolies lead to gross inefficiencies, rapid obsolescence and rampant unemployability of
trained manpower.
* Policy-makers and planners need a greater understanding of the dynamics of job creation and job-
related training, if costly manpower shortages and surpluses are to be avoided.
- iii -



* The informal sector complemented by enterprise-based training will continue to remain a
major source of trained manpower in Pakistan for a long time to come. However, lack of
experience and proven knowledge is a major constraint in developing appropriate support to
the informal sector.
* The expansion of training sector should not be governed by compulsions of social demand for
vocational training opportunities but instead by the imperatives of economic demand.
Vocational guidance services should be established to inform and educate the people for the
purpose of enabling them to make correct choices.
* Multi-sectoral policy-setting and coordinating bodies entrusted with a normative charter but without
legislated empowerment have little potential of coming to life.
*The recurrent operational budgets are likely to remain short-funded in the short and medium terms
which implies prudent investments in further expansion of the publically supported training sector.
Further in this scenario, partial cost-recovery is an inescapable option.
*Full benefits of mid-term restructuring of a project can accrue only if sufficient time is allowed for
the restructured components to develop institutional strength.
- iv -



Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Second Vocational Training Project
(Credit 1670-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Project Implementation Assessment
Project Identitv
Name:        Second Vocational Training Project
Credit:      1670-PAK
Unit:        South Asia
Country:     Pakistan
Sector:      Vocational Training
Project Background:
1.    The project was the eighth in a series financed by IDA and designed to raise educational and skill
standards in Pakistan, but only the second project concerned uniquely with vocational training and
with focus on both industrial and agricultural-rural sectors. It was co-financed by EC, UNDP, CIDA
and GTZ. It was prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Manpower with ILO assistance. The
project was appraised in July 1985 and approved in March 1986 with a credit of US$ 40.2 million
(SDR 36.6 million) over 8 years. The Development Credit Agreement was signed in May 1986 and
became effective in April 1987. The project supported the government's Sixth Five Year Plan's
objectives of further development of rural, industrial and women training sectors. The project
envisaged an increase in the National Vocational Training System (NVTS) training output from 6500
skilled/semi-skilled workers to 19400 annually. Under the apprenticeship training program in the
industrial sector, the project aimed to raise the output from 1100 trained workers annually to 2700.
Project Objectives and Descrintion
2.    The main objective of the project was to improve the quality and expand the capacity of the National
Vocational Training System to meet skilled and semi-skilled manpower requirement for the industrial
and agricultural/rural sector. The system expansion objective was to be achieved by:(a) increasing
the capacity of existing vocational training institutes through re-equipping them and introducing
additional courses; (b) developing new vocational training institutes in suburban and rural areas; and
(c) expanding apprenticeship/in-plant training programs. The quality improvement objective was to
be achieved by: (a) strengthening instructor training programs and (b) further strengthening the
management and project implementation capacity of the National Training Board (NTB) and
Provincial Training Boards (PTBs). The project was to establish a pilot and experimental component
of women technical training centers. Another objective of the project was to assist the government
in establishing a clear policy for cost recovery through the introduction of a realistic fee structure in
the training institutions.



- 2 -
The components within the project comprised: (i) provision of equipment for upgrading of 20 existing
Vocational Training Centers (VTCs) and introduction of additional training courses in some of them;
(ii) establishment of 31 new VTCs in suburban and rural areas; (iii) strengthening of
apprenticeship/in-plant training programs; (iv) conversion of the existing National Training
Development Institute (NTDI) into a National Staff Training Institute (NSTI); (v) establishment of
5 Women Technical Training Centers (WTTCs) alongwith 5 women training and employment units
in the provinces to administer courses in non-traditional fields; (vi) strengthening of the National
Training Bureau (NTBu) and the Directorates of Manpower & Training (DMTs) in four provinces;
(vii) establishment of 5 monitoring and evaluation units; (viii) carrying out of 5 studies in relevant
areas - these studies were expected to lead to new policies or a change of existing policies in
vocational training; (ix) technical assistance.
Initial Proiect Design and Orgagization
4.     The design of the project was based on the recommendations of a report prepared by the government
with ILO assistance and financed under the First Vocational Training Project (Credit 1109-PAK of
1981) The project supported the objectives of strengthening the NVTS created under the National
Vocational Training Ordinance of 1980.
5.     The thrust of the project in seeking to feed the employment market in needy sectors was well
directed. Taking note of lack of organised, rural-based training programs resulting in growing
migration of rural workers to urban areas in search of better training and employment opportunities,
the project aimed at creating a localized training infrastructure in selected rural districts. In the
industrial sector the shift from primary consumer goods to engineering goods and increasing use of
modern technology required upgraded skills among the potential new workers as well as the existing
workers. Under the project these requirements were to be met through modernising the outdated
equipment in existing training centers, introduction of new trades in them, instructors upgrading and
strengthening in-plant training development.  The proliferation of traditional women training
programs confined only to traditional stitchcraft and knitting courses had marginalised employment
opportunities for women. While a departure from these traditional programs was clearly indicated,
the job market context for women was still amorphous and undefined. The project, therefore,
adopted a cautious approach by initiating a pilot program of non-traditional trades in 5 major urban
cities. To improve the management and implementation capacity, the project sought to strengthen
the NTBu and the DMTs through increased and upgraded staff, reinforced monitoring and evaluation
services and provision of a large package of technical assistance. To illuminate future policy path
the project envisaged commissioning of relevant studies.
6.    In retrospect it seems that the project design over-projected the role of public sector in the provision
of vocational training opportunities and in doing so under-estimated the capacity constraints of this
sector. Secondly and more importantly, apart from the mandatory but limited involvement of the
employers in the delivery of apprenticeship training, the project design made little attempt to
capitalize on the diversified training potential of the organized industrial sector or of the informal
sector. In identifying the capacity constraints of the public sector the PCR of the first project had
noted; (i) inadequate provision of consumable materials; (ii) non-mobilization of the NTB and the
PTBs as autonomous bodies and low employers' participation in their infrequent meetings; (iii) delays



- 3 -
in site acquisition and construction coupled with poor design; (iv) management weaknesses arising
from poor identity of project management, poor coordination and weak supervision; (v) staffing
problems arising from delayed appointments and poor quality performance and (vi) lack of
responsiveness of the training system to labour market needs and the need for reviewing the length
and content of training courses. Most of these deficiencies of the first project recurred during the
initial implementation of the second project. It was only when the project was restructured after
almost 5 years of implementation that planned efforts were made to address these implementation
constraints with a mixed degree of success.
Implementation Experience under the Orieinal Project
7.     Apart from the notable exception of timely procurement of equipment for the existing VTCs, the
implementation of the project ran into difficulties right from the start. Effectiveness took nearly one
year due to delays in securing ECNEC's approval of the Project PC-I, signing of Co-Financing
Agreements and contract with an equipment procurement agency. To identify appropriate trade areas
in line with the needs of the rural/agricultural job market, the project envisaged the carrying out of
socio-economic surveys in the locations selected for new centers. These surveys were not conducted
scientifically by government agencies and as a result they recommended the replication of largely
urban-based trades in the new rural-based centers. The acquisition of land for the new VTCs took
more than 2 years. Due to continuing ban on fresh recruitment few new management positions could
be filled.  The project also suffered shortage of counterpart funding during its initial phase.
Cumulatively these problems delayed project implementation by almost 3 years and the project was
declared a problem project.
nroject Restructuring Exercise
8.    Meanwhile the employment market in Pakistan underwent major changes and the Government of
Pakistan established in 1989 a National Manpower Commission to identify the country's manpower
needs at all levels during the next 15 years and to recommend appropriate manpower development
strategies. The major findings of this Commission as relevant to the skill training sector were: (i)
institution-based programs need to become responsive to the job market; (ii) there was an unmet need
to induct the employers in training policy formulation and its implementation; (iii) the informal sector
needed support; and (iv) the apprenticeship training system needed to be drastically revised. In light
of these findings, IDA in consultation with government identified the need for a country-wide training
needs survey. This survey was financed by UNDP and completed in 1991. The survey indicated
that: (i) in the areas proposed for the new VTCs there is little evidence of an acute skill shortage; (ii)
employers rely almost exclusively on the on-the-job training output; (iii) the proposed training design
in the new VTCs does not cater to multi-skill and broad-based training; (iv) most training needs in
the rural areas can be met by providing 3 core activities in the new centers comprising electrical
work, metal working and fabrication and automobile work; (v) the building design and equipment
levels of the new VTCs should be re-considered and costed at more economic levels; (vi) effective
support systems should be explored for the informal sector including mobile training units; and (vii)
beauty-care, secretarial skills and dress making and dress design should form the core curricula for
women training centers. Based on the findings of the National Manpower Commission and the
recommendations of the Training Needs Survey, the project entities and IDA prepared a re-structured
design of the project in 1992 which was approved by the government in 1993 and the Development
Credit Agreement was accordingly revised. The re-structured project also took account of the



-4 -
implementation difficulties of the project. The new framework of the project included the following
departures:
a)    The number of new centers to be reduced from 31 to 19 along with a reduced physical scope.
b)    Construction management to be transferred to the provinces.
c)    Broad-based, modular curricula to be introduced in 3 core areas to support 4 programs in
Metal, Automotive and Electrical/Electronic trades to be introduced in the new centers.
d)    NTB and PTBs to be restructured with greater induction of employer-members and training
legislation for them to be amended to ensure their greater empowerment.
e)    Re-legislation of the Apprenticeship Ordinance to make it less coercive and participatory.
f)    Four employers-led Skill Development Councils to be established to conduct training needs
studies and to design and contract needs-based programs to the best training providers.
g)    Mobile training mode to be explored in support of informal sector.
h)    Provincial Staff Training Institutes to be established in 3 provinces.
i)    Trade Testing Cells to be set up at the federal level and in the provinces.
j)     Management of training centers to be selectively decentralized through the establishment of
Center Management Committees in place of the sinecure advisory committees.
k)    Additional technical assistance to be mobilized from the Credit.
ImDlementation ExDerience under the Restructured Project
9.    The restructuring put a new life into the project and its implementation gradually improved. With
the transfer of construction management to the provinces, the pace of construction  accelerated and
the quality of supervision improved significantly. External technical assistance was mobilized to
develop the broad-based curricula and to assess the potential of support to the informal sector. The
operational framework of the Skill Development Councils (SDCs) and the Center Management
Committees (CMCs) was developed and approved by the government speedily. The residual
difficulties on the mobilization of additional management staff were also largely resolved. The NSTI
and the 3 Staff Training Institutes (STIs) started operations with the former focusing on the training
of master trainers and holding of advanced modules of instructor training and the STIs concentrating
on the basic module. Four Trade Testing Cells also started operating in testing and certifying
candidates from both institution-based and informal sectors. The composition of the NTB and the
PTBs was changed to enhance the participation of employers. Work was simultaneously taken in
hand to propose amendments in the training legislation with a view to achieving greater empowerment
of the NTB and participative implementation of the apprenticeship training programs. A Project
Steering Committee was established with full representation from the provinces to meet regularly and



- 5 -
oversee the implementation of various components. Standing National Committees were constituted
in such diverse areas as instructor training, apprenticeship training and monitoring and evaluation.
Equipment lists were developed in line with the requirement of broad-based curricula and the process
of international procurement of equipment started. On the other hand, the restructured project could
not activate the NTB and PTBs and some residual problems persisted on the construction of federally
managed new centers. By 1994, however, enough progress was visible to warrant the removal of
the project from the problem category. Based on the continued momentum of work, IDA agreed in
May 1995 to extend the Credit by one year with a new closing date of June 30, 1996; SDR 3.2
million (US$ 5.0 million) was cancelled from the Credit. A qualified extension for a further six
months enabled the project to disburse for delayed supply of equipment contracted before June 30,
1996.
Component-wise prolect performance
10.   Upgrading of existing centers: This component aimed to upgrade 20 existing VTCs through
provision of new equipment, introduction of new trades and development of National Skill Standards
and Curricula for semi-skilled (G-III) and skilled (G-II) workers and additional enrolment of trainees
in double shifts. The project succeeded in delivering all these inputs. Equipment worth US$ 14.29
million was duly procured internationally and was installed and commissioned in 1991. Twenty five
new trades were introduced in 12 existing centers. Second shift programs were introduced in the
existing VTCs. Additional instructor staff was provided to meet the requirements of the enhanced
enrolment in existing and new trades. The enrolment capacity in existing VTCs rose from 8168 to
12651. The actual enrolment rose from 7818 to 11162, thus substantively utilizing the additional
capacity. This component is one of the success stories of the project.
11.   Establishmnent of new centers:  This component was addressed to meet the requirement of
skilled/semi-skilled manpower in rural/agricultural districts. Originally, 31 new VTCs were to be
developed under this component, but according to the market signals, the restructured project reduced
this number to 19. By the project closure, new buildings had been built for only 4 centers, while the
remaining were in varying stages of progress. Three center buildings were excluded from IDA-
financing due to infringement of IDA procurement guidelines and these were later completed by
government from its own resources. The scope of new centers was limited to 4 broad-based trades
with modest, needs-based buildings and scaled-down complement of equipment. Each new VTC was
designed with a capacity of 16 trainees in each of the two shifts in each trade. A broad-based
curriculum was developed and master trainers were trained to equip instructors with skills of
administering broad-based, modular curriculum.  The delayed construction of buildings and
procurement of equipment did not allow the incomplete centers to be operationalized before the
project closed. Even the 4 completed centers under EC's financing failed to operate by project
closure. This component has remained problematic throughout the life of the project. It is now
expected that all the new centers will be fully commissioned by early 1998.
12.   Apprenticeship Training:  To strengthen the apprenticeship services including oversight and
professional help in the industrial sector, this component provided additional staff, raised their salary
status, improved their mobility and created for them opportunities of formal training, seminars and
workshops. As a result of these inputs a steady increase was maintained in the number of apprentices
from 5624 at the start of the project to 9482 at its closure, thus meeting the capacity targets envisaged



- 6 -
under the original project. However, the accent on legal enforcement of the apprenticeship law
prevented full mobilization of the capacity of this program. Accordingly, draft legislation was
prepared to introduce greater voluntariness into the program and to extend the net to larger number
of employers. However, till the closure of the project, proposed revisions in the legislation could
not be legislated.
13.   Instructor Training: This component had both quantitative and qualitative objectives and comprised
the conversion of the existing NTDI into a NSTI and creating additional instructor training capacity
in the provinces. Under the restructured project, the NTDI was kept intact and a separate NSTI was
established along with new buildings and provision of equipment. In operationalizing the NSTI, GTZ
provided useful technical assistance. Three STIs were established in the provinces. Thus instructor
training capacity increased from 60 to 260, which is a commendable achievement. It was agreed that
a modular structure would be implemented with the basic module being administered in the STIs and
advanced module in the NSTI. While this arrangement has accelerated the coverage of un-trained
instructors, it is not problem-free. The main difficulty is the un-willingness of the provincial trainees
to benefit from NSTI training because this dislocates their domestic life. Another possible difficulty
could arise in the post-project period, if the Provincial Governments face budgetary constraints in
adequately meeting the travelling and residential expenditures of the prospective instructor trainees.
14.   Women Training: The women training component got a head-start when the provincial governments
of NWFP and Balochistan agreed to provide the premises for WTTCs in Quetta and Peshawar. With
CIDA's assistance, these centers were operationalized respectively in 1990 and 1994. Non-traditional
training courses in Beauty Culture, Secretarial Trades including Computers, Draughtspersonship and
Dress-making were started in these centers and the response from female trainees continues to be
positive. Although the job market context for the trained output was not well defined initially,
opportunities of both wage and self-employment have emerged with the passage of time. Adequate
back-up support has been provided to these centers by the Women Employment and Training Units
(WTEUs) established in Islamabad and the four provinces. Of the 5 WTTCs planned, new buildings
for the remaining 3 got delayed deferring their operation to an uncertain date after the closure of the
project. Although the buildings of these three centers are likely to be completed by end 1997, the
government has yet to initiate procurement of equipment for them under its own financing. This may
further delay the commissioning of these centers. This component met with qualified success in that
it did establish the replicability potential of the experimental WTTCs, but did not achieve the planned
physical target.
15.   Management and Implementation: This has been the weakest aspect of the project due essentially
to: (i) delayed recruitment of management staff abetted by further delays in staff development; (ii)
delay in acquisition of sites; (iii) initial gaps in federal-provincial communication and coordination;
(iv) continuing deficiencies in construction management and supervision; (v) resistance to decentralize
modes of operation; (vi) bureaucratic delays in re-legislation of existing training laws; and (vii)
massive turn-over of top managers and policy makers with 82 staff chages at both the federal and
provincial levels. After a hiatus of 4 years, implementation difficulties eased under the restructured
project. By this time positive movement had occurred in staff mobilization and decentralization of
construction management to the provinces.  However, while the implementation of physical
component improved in the post-restructuring period, the normative work of the training boards
remained largely stalled till the end of the project.  Factors that contributed to the lack of
performance by the boards included: (i) lack of empowerment; (ii) key staff changes; (iii) lack of



- 7 -
interest on the part of employer and (iv) infrequent meetings of the boards.
16.   Monitoring and Evaluation: Five Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) units have been established
under this component and they have been staffed and equipped after some initial delay. Information-
gathering formats have been developed to collect center census data annually. To assess external
efficiency of the training centers, tracer studies have occasionally been conducted, which reflect an
employment rate of 30 to 50%, depending on province, trade and the year of passing. The M&E
units still lack staff expertise in assembling and updating reliable labour market information. The
government would need to focus on this deficiency in the post-project period. In the short run
externally contracted tracer studies could bridge the competency gap of the concerned staff.
17.   Studies: Of the 5 project studies, 2 have been completed in the following areas: (a) cost recovery
and the financing of the vocational training; and (b) financial compensation schemes and training in
private enterprises. The study on Women Training remained un-commissioned. The remaining two
studies on rural apprenticeship program and survey of industrial sector needs and the demand of
advanced (G-I) vocational training have been completed in draft and no effort has been made to revise
them in light of detailed IDA conmments. IDA financing was not sought for completing the studies
nor were the terms of reference of the first two studies cleared by IDA. As a result the quality of
the findings and recommendations of these studies leave much to be desired. Moreover, the
government is in default on the covenanted actions that were to follow in using the results of the
studies. These actions constituted (i) introducing a system under which an increasing proportion of
training cost could be recovered from the beneficiaries; (ii) implementing a pilot program of rural
apprenticeship training; and (iii) introducing advanced vocational training (G-1) courses in selected
institutions. Despite meeting success in realizing users charges under the training programs run by
CMCs and SDCs, the full potential of partial cost recovery from the trainees of regular programs
remains un-accomplished task. All in all, disappointing progress has been made on the completion
of studies and no follow-up action has been initiated on the outcomes of the completed studies.
18.   Technical Assistance: The Project was supported by a Technical Assistance Component of US$
3,537,421 provided by the UNDP and US$ 1,158,356 provided by IDA and executed by the ILO.
As reflected in the column-table, this component has met or exceeded its quantitative targets:
Type of TA            SAR Provision    |  Actual Delivered
Expatriate Consultancy     16 person-years      17.5 person-years
Local Consultancy         18.5 person-years     17.1 person-years
service
International              10 person-years      21.3 person-years
Fellowships                                                        l
19.   CIDA supplied assistance including training equipment to 2 new pilot centers for women's training
program. In addition CIDA provided technical assistance to 5 Women Employment and Training
Cells. CIDA assistance is scheduled to close by end of June 1996.



- 8 -
20.    The Government of Germany through GTZ provided TA to NSTI but temporarily pulled out in June
1993 due to long delay in the construction of the proposed NSTI building and procurement of
equipment. GTZ resumed its assistance again for another 2-year period (Jan 1997 - Dec. 1998) using
the unspent amount left in 1993.
21.    EC provided financial assistance for equipment and civil works of 3 new VTCs in the NWFP and
2 in Balochistan. In addition, EC supported provision of vehicles and consultancy assignments related
to exploring the prospects of mobile training.
22.   In terms of impact produced by this significant input of technical assistance, the picture is varied.
CIDA's TA has greatly assisted staff development in the two operational WTTCs. The TA provided
by EC in support of mobile training has produced useful reports, but pending the reformation of some
aspects of the proposals contained in the reports and taking into account the financial implications of
setting up a viable project, it was agreed that the restructured project would not cover this
component. The NSTI has benefited immensely from the TA provided by GTZ. The UNDP-
financed TA as complemented by the Credit focused on donor coordination, construction
management, equipment procurement, curriculum development and staff development. All these
areas have benefited from it. The fellowship training numerically exceeded the initial targets by a
margin of 100%, but the immediate return on this investment in terms of improved professionalism
among staff has been impeded by rapid staff changes particularly at the higher level. However, this
investment in human development will continue to exercise beneficial influence on management and
system development in the long run, as the additional human capital remains within the system and
in any case within the country.
Other Proiect Asets
23.    Civil Works Implementation: The SAR envisaged a phased implementation of the civil works. Full
implementation of all civil works was planned to be completed by 1991. The implementation
schedule (Table 1.1) shows that by project closing, in June 1996, only four centers had been
completed and handed over along with the completion of a small extension to an existing center.
Most of the remaining thirteen VTC/WTTC buildings are at an advanced stage of completion. The
delays in the construction of 10 VTCs included in the first phase were due to major inadequacies in
the performance of the federal agencies involved and included: (i) delays in acquisition of sites;
(ii) delays in award of contracts; (iii) an inconsistent policy followed in making payments to
contractors; (iv) absence of adequate provision in construction contracts to provide equitable
compensation for escalation; (v) unsatisfactory performance by contractors; (vi) unprofessional
performance by the construction design and supervision consultants; (vii) failure to employ the
relevant contract procedures to deal with unresponsive or defaulting contractors; and (viii) a
misinterpretation of the role of owner \ client under both construction and consultancy contracts.
24.    The construction design and supervision consultants were required to work for several years without
a signed contract. Their contract was not signed until February 12, 1992. This situation was
reflected in the slow progress achieved in the completion of site surveys and in the development of
designs by the consultants. The first phase VTCs buildings were tendered only on June 23, 1988.
25.    Project restructuring: Under the Restructured Project PC-I, the civil works on the centers already



-9-
contracted, were to be executed under the existing arrangements by the NTB. The remaining centers
were redesigned on a reduced scale to accommodate broad based training. Contract management was
transferred to the provinces. Top supervision was transferred to consultants engaged by the PTBs.
An international architect was appointed under contract with ILO.
26.   Designs: The initial designs were structurally sound but areas were over-provided. The revised
center designs involved reduction of the original areas by, of the order of 50%, and omitted hostel
accommodation and reduced the provision of staff accommodation.
27.   Tendering procedures: Evaluation of bids for the first phase VTCs involved substantial delays before
award of contract. The contract documentation for the first phase also made no provision for
escalation in prices. The VTCs decentralised to the provinces were tendered on the basis of
IDA-approved Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs), which were seen to be equitable, incorporating
both provision for escalation and for ascertaining and applying damages for delays or other disputes.
28.   Performance by Contractors: The completion of the federally managed centers of the first phase has
continued to be a major constraint. Of the contracts for 10 centers awarded, three were eliminated
from the credit due to non-performance, two were re-tendered. All five center buildings have not
yet been handed over and are in dispute. In the absence of strict enforcement of contractual
procedures, contractors have been in breach of contract and work has been suspended for long
periods in pursuit of claims. Direct intervention of federal officials in interpreting and deciding on
contractual disputes was itself a significant contributor to prolongation. Contractual overruns have
varied from 15 to 81 months, the average overrun up to April 1997 was 47 months. Cost overruns
in 7 IDA-financed VTCs of the first phase have averaged 43 %. In contrast, good progress has been
registered with the projects entrusted to the PTBs and federal Ministry of Works following
restructuring. It is anticipated that with the exception of one disputed VTC building, all other center
buildings will have been completed within a two year construction period.
29.   Procurement of Equipment: The project incorporated procurement of equipment as one of its major
components. ILO EQUIPRO was contracted by the government as a sole source procurement
agency. Based on its past experience under the first project, EQUIPRO executed its contract
diligently and efficiently by using ICB/LIB and other procurement guidelines of IDA, EEC and
CIDA. In addition EQUIPRO provided training, technical assistance and hands-on experience to the
staff of the NTBu to enable them to develop procurement skills. As a result LCB procurement of
the equipment was satisfactorily handled largely by the NTBu staff.
30.   Skill Development Councils: To institutionalize employers' role, the restructured project envisaged
the establishment of pilot models of employers-led Skill Development Councils (SDCs). Two of them
were initially contracted by the federal government to operate for a period of 3 years. SDCs were
mandated, among other objectives, to provide a productive link between employers and training
providers; identify training needs of the geographical area in which they work and to analyze and
prioritize and meet such prioritized training needs through competitive contracted arrangements. Both
SDCs were provided seed money from IDA Credit, with a view to making them financially self-
sufficient in 2-3 years. Towards that end each SDC carried out through contracted training providers
skills upgrading courses for supervisors and managers, in addition to pre-employment training
programs. However, the sustainability of SDCs in an interim period of 2 to 3 years under
government financing, before they develop the intrinsic strength to become self-sustainable, is un-



- 10 -
assured.
31.   Center Management Committees: Another employers-led formal mechanism to partially decentralize
the management of training centers was the Center Management Committees (CMCs) which replaced
the previously ineffective center advisory committees. CMCs were designed to promote decentralized
operation of the training centers and to ensure that training programs meet the labour market skills
requirements. Twenty CMCs were established, but only 11 are functional. A specimen of the
performance assessment of the CMCs follows: (i) increased utilization of training capacity; (ii) on-
the-job training and placement for trainees; (iii) collecting in-kind contribution from employers; and
(iv) running short courses on full cost-sharing basis.
32.   Social Studies Module: Using the funds provided by UNDP under the TA component, ILO hired
the services of a national consultant to guide a committee of Chief Instructors in developing a
curriculum on Social Studies. The curriculum focused on population welfare and life skills including
appropriate work attitudes. To date, 12 training centers (3 in each province) have implemented the
30-hour Social Studies curriculum in their training programs.
Project's Results
33.   Achievement of Project's Objectives:  In terms of capacity expansion, by closure the project
achieved about 70% of the targeted growth in institution-based training, but fully met the target of
expanded apprenticeship training. In terms of qualitative improvement, the project succeeded in
training 60% of instructional staff. A significant success of the project lies in creating elements of
an enabling environment for sustained progress in meeting the goals. Whether this enabling
environment will add up and deliver will depend upon how the institutional gains of the project are
sustained by the government in the post project period. While existing centers have fully installed
and operationalized the new equipment through on-going and additional courses, the new centers were
not made operational during the project's life. The only exception were 2 women centers that were
commissioned in government-procured buildings. The planned expansion of apprenticeship training
program has occurred but it still trails behind in realising its optimum capacity due to lack of revised
legislation. For improving the quality of training delivery much headway has been made in
establishing appropriate instructor training infrastructure, but it would take much longer to provide
full and comprehensive training coverage to the entire formation of instructors.  A major
disappointment of the project is its lack of success in mobilizing the normative capacity of the training
boards. Another disappointment is that little progress has been made in exploring and implementing
possible cost-recovery options. While the project has laid the foundation for greater participation of
employers in training policy formulation and implementation, the results on the ground are far from
satisfactory. Also the project did not succeed in initiating mobile training in support of the informal
sector.
34.   Impact of Project: The software developed under the project including a national training policy
and a broad-based curriculum have yet to find a wide acceptance within and outside the NVTS.
However, there is evidence to believe that internal and external demands on the useful instructor
training and trade testing infrastructure developed under the project are going to increase. Similarly,
the project has met with some success in bringing the public sector training providers and employers
closer than before and the prognosis for an increased interaction between them in future is good. On
the other hand the normative charter of the training boards remains unaccomplished and resultantly



- 11 -
there is little abatement in the supply-driven orientation of policy planners. In the short and medium
run shortages and surpluses of trained manpower are going to co-exist unless training planners and
providers learn to establish and benefit from a continually updated labour market information system.
The employers-led training structures created under the project do not constitute a critical mass for
the needed transformation in fostering a partnership between the public and the private sectors but
nonetheless they provide an important beginning. In particular one of the two SDCs located in
Karachi has a bright future in terms of sustainability, as it is currently reaching out to external
professional bodies and other donors to build on the sound foundation it has built by demonstrating
the potential of cost recovery and harnessing the full cooperation of the employers.
35.    Project Sustainability:  Increased budgetary constraints makes it unlikely that adequate O&M
resources would be available to service the expanded infrastructure unless supported by a policy of
partial cost recovery. Without empowering the NTB and the PTBs through amended legislation, their
continued existence as sinecure structures will be of questionable value.  Unless the existing
legislation on apprenticeship training is revised to make it less coercive and more voluntary and
incentive-based, this mode of training is unlikely to achieve its full potential. Similarly the
sustainability of the SDCs and the CMCs is also unassured without continued public sector support
for some more time and without a decisive move towards decentralized management. On the other
hand the instructor training infrastructure, the trade testing mechanisms and various national standing
committees have developed the intrinsic strength to survive and remain productive. Women training
in non-traditional trades is gradually developing firm roots and it possesses a good potential for
replication.
36.    During the final supervision mission in 1996, Government agreed to a program for completing and
operating all project institutions, and for passing legislation. Draft legislation reached an advanced
stage but was not passed before the change in Government. The new Government accords high
priority to developing the training sector and encouraging public-private-partnership; it is reviewing
proposals for reform & strengthening training. The FY98 budget includes adequate developmental
provisions for meeting the remaining needs of the new centers.  However, recurrent budget
constraints in the provinces are likely to affect the O&M provisions for the expanded training
infrastructure.
37.   Overall Assessment of Outcomes: Assessment of the overall achievements of the project is complex.
On the one hand, Government has still not passed the legislation needed to make the training boards
properly operational and the apprenticeship system more attractive to employers; only four of the 19
training centers in the reduced target have been completed and none is yet operational and three of
the five women training centers are still being built. On the other hand, employers are actively using
the Karachi SDC and are involved in a number of Center Management Committees; the two women's
centers are extremely successful; existing training centers have been upgraded/expanded successfully
as planned; expansion of instructor training centers has exceeded targets; apprenticeship has expanded
as planned; staff of training centers are demonstrating the value of the training they received; and
another 14 training centers should soon be completed. Compared with the original targets, on
balance the overall outcome is unsatisfactory. However, achievements since restructuring under the
reoriented objectives gave partially satisfactory outcomes at closing, with the promise of more
satisfactory outcomes in the post-project period.



- 12 -
IDA's Rerformance
38.   In the policy context of the period, the intensive identification and preparation work by IDA was
satisfactory. However, the appraisal should probably have questioned the project's complexity and
foreseen the implementation problems that in fact arose immediately.  Early supervision was
satisfactory, but could not improve inadequate project implementation.   After noting initial
implementation constraints encountered in the construction of a large number of new centers in distant
locations and in bringing to life the national and provincial training boards, IDA successfully
catalyzed a major restructuring of the project which helped in reducing the number of new centers
by 40%, decentralising construction management, preparing revised training legislation and laying
a foundation for institutionalising employers' role in implementation. The restructuring exercise
accelerated the pace of implementation and provided a rational basis for normative work. IDA's
strategy to retain the project in the problem category for an extended period was instrumental in
persuading the government to accept the rationale for restructuring.  The regular half-yearly
supervision missions fielded by IDA made a substantial contribution in identifying issues and
providing timely implementation assistance. IDA's decision to transfer the responsibility for task
management to the Resident Mission mid-way through the project enhanced the efficacy of local
supervision through ready response to emerging problems and expeditious clearance of diverse
procurement actions. Throughout the project's life IDA maintained a cordial and constructive
relationship with the Borrower, the provincial project entities and the co-financiers. IDA also
succeeded in fostering better federal - provincial relationship through the establishment of steering
committees and national standing committees. However, IDA, despite its strong advocacy, did not
meet with much success in curtailing the expansion of supply-driven training programs by various
ministries, departments and organizations and in promoting policies of cost-recovery. Based on
accelerated implementation of the project during the post restructuring period and as a special
exception to its current policy on Credit closure, had IDA agreed to a further extension of the Credit,
additional supervision inputs could have enhanced the sustainability of the project outcomes.
However, the protracted life of the project spread over 10 years and the lack of fully satisfactory
implementation progress precluded this possibility.
Borrower's Performance
39.   Initial project implementation got delayed by almost 3 years due to the centralised control of project
implementation by the Ministry of Labour and Manpower. Once the Ministry agreed to decentralise
aspects of project management, implementation difficulties eased considerably. The bureaucratic
rigidities of the federal and provincial governments, frequent changes of key policy-level staff and
lack of interest on the part of employer-members prevented the National and the Provincial Training
Boards from fully assuming a normative charter in training policy formulation and overall
coordination of the training sector. Under the restructured project the Borrower agreed to revise
training legislation towards mandated empowerment of the training boards but failed to legislate the
amended law before the closure of the project. Similarly draft amendments in the apprenticeship
ordinance also remained unlegislated.  A long embargo placed by the Government on fresh
recruitment delayed full mobilisation of project management staff and this delay was further
compounded by a long period of time required to finalise service rules for the new positions.
Frequent changes in key management positions disrupted the continuity of leadership and undermined
sustained commitment to policy changes. Failure to allocate adequate O&M funds on the part of the
provincial governments continued to adversely effect the quality of training delivery in existing



- 13 -
centers but despite its efforts, the Ministry of Labour and Manpower was unable to persuade the
provinces to act otherwise. The federal government and the provinces never fully appreciated the
rationale for demand-responsive training provisions and as a result proliferation of supply-driven
programs and centers continued throughout the project's life. Despite its being a covenanted action,
cost recovery was never seriously considered by the Borrower or the provinces as a serious policy
option. On the positive side, the Borrower fully cooperated in restructuring the project and agreeing
to its participative management.  After some initial difficulties, the Borrower made adequate
allocations for counterpart development funds.
Lessons Learnt:
40.   If a Vocational Training project were to be designed today to meet the (laudable) objectives of this
operation, it would take a very different form. The following are the key lessons learnt:
* Public sector interventions in the training sector should essentially be catalytic in nature to create
a participative environment in which the training providers and the employers in tandem can plan and
deliver training programs in response to the market forces - the corollary being that public sector
training monopolies lead to gross inefficiencies, rapid obsolescence and rampant unemployability of
trained manpower.
* Policy-makers and planners need a greater understanding of the dynamics of job creation and job-
related training, if costly manpower shortages and surpluses are to be avoided.
* The informal sector complemented by enterprise-based training will continue to remain a major
source of trained manpower in Pakistan for a long time to come. However, lack of experience and
proven knowledge is a major constraint in developing appropriate support to the informal sector.
* The expansion of training sector should not be governed by compulsions of social demand for
vocational training opportunities but instead by the imperatives of economic demand. Vocational
guidance services should, therefore, be established to inform and educate the people for the purpose
of enabling them to make correct choices.
* Multi-sectoral policy-setting and coordinating bodies entrusted with a normative charter but without
legislated empowerment have little potential of coming to life.
*The recurrent operational budgets are likely to remain short-funded in the short and medium terms
which implies prudent investments in further expansion of the publically supported training sector.
Further in this scenario, partial cost-recovery is an inescapable option.
*Full benefits of mid-term restructuring of a project can accrue only if sufficient time is allowed for
the restructured components to develop institutional strength.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670PIK
Table 1: Sunmttary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives                Substantial                Partial           Negligible        Not aDplicable
,fX)                     (X)                (X)                (X)
Macro Policies                                                          ()(X)
Sector Policies                                ( )                       (X)               (
Financial Objectives                           ( )                      ( )                (X)
Institutional Development                      ( )                       (X)               (                  (
Physical Objectives                            ( )                      (X)
Povertm Reduction                              C )                      ( )                                   (X)
Geneder Issues                                 ( )                       (X)               t)                 (
Other Social Objectives                        ( )                       ( )X)
Environmental Objectives                       ( )                       ( )                                  (X)
Public Sector management                       ( )                       (X)
Private Sector Development                     ( )                       (X)
Other (New Technology))
B. Proiect Sustainability                    Likelv                    Unlikelv                   Uncertain
( )                      (X)                         ()
High
C  Bank Performance                         satisfacto                    sfactorv                Deficient
Identification                              ( )                       (X)                        ( )
Preparation Assistance                      ( )                       (X)
Appraisal                                   ( )                        ( )
Supervision                                 ( )                        (X)                       ()
(Initial Periodi          (Final Period)
llrnlv
D. Borrower Performance                              salisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                          ()                (X)              ()
Implementation                                       ( )               ( )              (X)
Covenant Compliance                                  ( )               ( )              (X)
Operation (it applicable)                            ( )               ( )              (X)
Highly                                                          Highly
E  Assessment of Outcome                     satisfactory     Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             unsaisfactory
()               C)                 QC)                        C)



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Year ofl
Credit/title                     Purpose                   Approval    Statuss                Comments
Cr 1109-PAK              Modernize the physical and institutional  1981      Closed    Marginal. Out of the Credit of USS
First Vocanional         intrastructure of occupational training                       19.7 million. USS 4.0 million was
|Training Project                                                                       cancelled
Cr 1198-NEP              Increase supply of skilled craftsmen and  1982      Closed    Satisfactory. Out of USS 14.3
Second Education        technicians Aith basic engineering                             million. USS 3.5 million was
(Technical and          skills. improve trade skill training                           cancelled
Vocational Training)     programs and career prospects for
PrTojecI                 crahtsmen and technicians, and support
(Nepal)                 the MOE in the subsector.
LII. 2171-EC             Expand and diversify Ecuador's           1982       Closed    Satisfactory.
Sec(ond Vocational       vocational training system.                                   Project closed on June 30. 1990
Training Project
(Ecuadors)
Ln. 2200-PH              Broaden and strengthen industrial         1983      Closed    Satisfactory.
Vocational Training      training.                                                     Project closed on April 30, 1991.
Project                                                                                Out of total Loan of USS 24.4
(Philippines)                                                                          million USS 9.5 was cancelled.
Cr. 1698-CE              Strengthen institutional framework for    1986      Closed    Satisfactory.
Second Vocational       training for construction industry:
Training Project         expand supply of skilled manpower for
(Sri Lanka)              foreign and domestic markets.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual]
Steps in project cvcle                                  Date planned          latest estimate
Idertification (Executive Project Summary)                                                   1/84         January 1984
Preparation                                                                                  3/84            May 1984
Appraisal                                                                                    2/85           March 1985
Nevotiations                                                                               1113/86        January 22. 1986
Letter ol development policy (if applicable)                                                   NA              NA
Board presentation                                                                           2/86           March 25. 1986
Signing                                                                                      5/86             May 15, 1986
Eftectiveness                                                                              7/31186          April 01. 1987
First tranche release (if applicable)                                                          NA              NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                                 NA              NA
Project completion                                                                         12/31/94          December 1996
Credit closine                                                                             06/30/95       December 31. 1996



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PAK
Table 4: Credit Disbursements Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
< Restructured PC-1 >       < Extension >
1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90 - 1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97
Appraisal Estimate (USS)                  0.54      5.52    16.78     25.78     32.64     35.78    37.081    38.58      40.2
Restructured PC-1 (USS)                                                        _                   29.02     35.38     46.07     46.07     46.07
Actual (U S$)                             0.31      0.36      1.09      1.2    17.26      19.92    20.18     22.85     24.65     26.79     38.85
Actual as % of estimate (rounded)         57%,       7%      60%        5%       53%       56%0_                              _      ___
Actual as % of restructured (rounded)  __70%I    65%                                                                    54%       58%       84%
Cancellation dated May 16, 1995 (USS) 5.0 million
or SDR 3,210,000.
Disbursement Pattern: Appraisal Estimate and Restructured PC-1 vs. Actual
US$ M
50 - 
45
40 ,. I-.-. -.^ l
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
35
30
25
20                                                                                         .~ ~
10I                                                      I
1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96  1996/97
Year of Project
*Appraisal Estimate (USS)             a Restructured PC-i (USS)              ..Actual (US$)



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 5-a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicator         Estimated          Estimated in            Actuals            Remarks
in SAR       Restructured Project    at Completion
A. Develop New Trainine Centers
* Centers-buildings                  31                 19                    4          1 dropped, 3
transferred to govt
financing, being
completed.
* Supply Equipment                   31                 19                    18         All equipment
supplied.
B. Develop Women's Trainine Centers
* Centers-buildings                   5                  5                    2          3 being completed.
* Equipment                           5                  5                    2          Governnent to
procure equipment for
other 3.
C. Develop Instructor Trainin2
Institutions INSTI)
* tor Instructors                     I        I new at national level    All 4 completed
conversion    & 3 at provincial
D. Existing Centers : Equipment           20 centers          20 centers           20 centers          All supplied.
I SUINII
E. Consumable Materials Procurement                              60% target met by end of Project.
F. TraininE Abroad                            10                  10                   21
Person Year        Person Year           Person year
(62 people)
G. Skill Development Councils (SDCs)                              4                     2
H. Center Management Committees                ,                  20                   1 1
19(CMCs)
1. Monitoring & Evaluation                     5                   5                    5
J. Trade Testing Cells                         4                   4                    4



19
INPLEWENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 5-b: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(Dates)
Key Implementation Indicators according to SAR        Estimatrd          Actual                   Remarks
A. DeveloninR New Centers
* Acquire sites in three phases                  1986-89           1988-89
* Appointment consultants                          1986             1986
* Develop designs and cost estimates             1987-88            1988
* Prepare tender documents                       1987-88            1988                    10 centers
* Tenders and award contracts                    1987-88       1988,1989.1991.            10+9 centers
1994, 1995
* Complete construction                          1990-91           1996-97                  19 centers
B. Developing Women Centers
* Acquire sites                                  1986-87           1988-89
* Appoint consultants                              1986             1986
-0 Develop designs and cost estimates             1987-88            1988
* Prepare iender documents                         1988             1993                    3 centers
* Tender and avward contract                       1989             1995                    3 ceniers
* Complete constructior                            1991            1996-97                  3 centers
C. Developine N-STI
* Acquire site                                     1986             1986
* Appoint consultants                              1986             1986
* Develop designs and cost estimates              1987-88           1993                   Restructured
* Prepare tender documents                         1988             1994
* Tender and award contracts                       1988             1995
* Complete construction                            1990             1997
D. Existing Centers (eQuipment supply)
* Prepare equipment list                           1987             1987
* Prepare tender documents                         1987             1987
* Tender and award contract                        1988             1988
* Deliver and install                             1988-89           1990
* Operationalize                                   1990             1991



20
E. New Centers (ecuipment suply)
* Prepare equipment list                       1987-88           1994                 Restructured
* Prepare tender documents                     1988-90           1994                    -do-
* Tender and award contract                    1989-91           1995                     -do-
* Deliver and install                          1991-92           1996                     -do-
* Operationalize                                1993           1997-98                    -do-
F. Commodities & Materials                                                            _
* Provide consumable materials                 1988-95         1988-95             60% of norm met
* Purchase books                               1988-95         1988-95        Full allocation not utilized.
* Procure vehicles                             1987-90           1990
G. Additional Staff
* Additional NTBu staff                        1986-87         1988-89        Recruitment ban: only 70% of
staff has been regularized.
* Additional DMTs stafl                        1986-87         1988-89                   -do-
* Additional instructors (existing centers)     1989           1990-91                   -do-
* Additional instructors mnew centers)         1990-91         1995-96                Restructured
H. Technical Assistance
* Appoint foreien consultants                  1987-95         1987-96
* Appoint local co*sultants                    1987-95         1988-94
* Implement fellowship training abroad         1987-95         1987-96
1. Studies
* Cost recover! and financing                   1989             1991         Follow-up action not initiated.
* Financial compensation for private sector      1989            1992                    -do-
* Rural apprenticeship training                  1989            1994               Study incomplete
* Industrial sector needs for advanced training  1989            1995                     -do-
* Women training and employment opportunities   1981       Not commissioned
J. Instructor Trainine (Restructured Proiect)
* Establish 3 provincial STIs                   1994           1994-95
1;. Skill Development Councifs (SDCs)
* Establish 4 SDCs                               1995           1995-96           Two SDCsestablished
* Establish 20 CMCs                            1994-95          1995-96           Only I1 arefunctional



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECONTD VOCATIONAL TRAIING PROJECr'
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 5-c: Key Indicators of Project Implementation
PROJECT ASPECT                            PUNJAB             SINDH            NWFP          BALOCHISTAN
No. of PTB meetings held during project's life                                  11                2                  8
No. of times Labour Secys/Chairmen PTBs changed               10                 8                7                 12
1987/1997
No. of times DMTs/Secys PTBs changed 1987/1997                 6                 7               4                  8
Additional Management Staft positions created!recruited       9/9              2121 119/19                        21/21
Apprenticeship Training intake 1990/ 1996                 3368/5762          1337/2558        720/1010            63/124
Enrolment progression in existine VTCs 1988/1996          5405/7696           861/639        1032/1823           520/882
Enrolment Capacity Utilization Percentage 1987/1995          71/87             33i'29          68/138            103/151
No. of Centres running broad-based curriculum                  4                 3               I                  1
No. ot CMCs established/tunctional                            4/4               9/5             4/3                3/3
No. of persons trade tested and certified including       10994/11608        7155/2692        980/1301           1011/843
candidates from intormal sector 1993:1996
Implementation ot National Training Polic%             Planning started    Planning yet to   Planning yet to   Planning yet to
stan            start            start
No ot SDCs established and tunctionin2                        1/1               1/1              0                  0
Percentave o0 untrained instructors                           35                38               54                 47
Average provision ot training materials budget against      Rs. 70/-          Rs 80/-          Rs. 75             Rs. 175
the norni of Rs. 150 per trainee per month
No. of new centies under establishment under provincial        2                12               3                  6
financing outside the project
Procurement ol turniture                                   Tendered          Tendered       Utn-tendered        Un-tendered
Revenue generated through short courses                   Rs. 0.105 M       Rs 0.505 M      Rs. 0.200 M        Rs. 3.528 M
(1996)           (1996)           (1996)             (1997)
Rate of tees/funds/user's charges applied to trainees in  Adm. Rs. 20      Adm. Rs. 30     Adm. Rs. 20      Adm. Rs. 50
regular programmes                                     Hostel Rs. 20                       Hostel Rs. 20
Tuition Rs. 20
per trainee/month
Award of stipends to trainees                                 N.A               N.A             N.A.        Generous awards,
suspended
recently.
No. of new trades started in existing centres/trainees       11/861            6/162            3/245              5/410
enrolled                                                   (1993-96)         (1996-97)        (1996-97)          (1995-96)
*        Filled only on a contract basis and still awaiting regularisation.



22
IIMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 6-a: Key Indicators for Project Operation
SAR                Restructured                Current
Enrolment
Existinm  Centers                                           19400                   17000                    11162
New Centers                                                  4950                   3040               Not yet operational
Instructor Training                                          1500                   2000                      1180
Women Trainine                                               1500                    1500                     1126*-
SDC\ and CMCs                                                 -              No target established   1579 persons trained in
64 short courses.
Monitorine & Evaluation Units                                                   All units operatine
Tralde Testimin  Cells                                                         Number Tested            Number Certified
50000                   115629
*Includes Trainees in existing centers
TRADE TESTED INSTITUTIONAL TRAINEES & SKILLED PERSONS
FROM INDUSTRIES AND INFORMAL SECTOR
_________ E _____18     1988      1989    1990       1991  -  1992       1993    1994         1995    (1996)J  TOTAL
Federal         83       99       175      235       204       311       770       494       905        316       3592
Punjab        6486    6510      6774      7633      7849     11658    10994       8839      10706    11608       89057
Sinddh (1                                                               715       780       3369      2692       7556
N W'FP                                                                   980      2184      3106       1301       7571
Balochista     520      580      686       580       504       686       lO11      703       1740       843       7853
TOTAL        7089    7189      7635      8448     8557      12655     14470    13000    19826    16760          115629
(1)  DMT Sindh started trade testing in 1993
(2)  DMT NWFP started trade testing in  1993
(3)&(4)  Trainees  under  the  Prime  Minister  Special  Training
Programme were also trade
tested in 1995 and 1996.



23
IMPLEMENTATION CONIPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECON'D VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 6-b: Key Indicators for Project Operation
NATIONAL TRAINING BOARD (NTB)
AND THE
FOUR PROVINCIAL TRANNG BOARDS (PTBs)
No. of meetings conducted
1987-1996                   Dates of last 2 meetings
NTB                             7          6dh meeting - 30 Aug 1994, Islamabad
7th meeting - 08 Nov.1995, Lahore
PTB Punjab                     11         10th meeting - 27 Dec 1995
11th meeting - 02 Sep 1996
PTB Sindh                      II         10th meeting - 25 May 1995
11th meeting - 07 Jan 1996
PTB NWFP                        2          Ist meeting - 06 Jan 1987
2nd meeting - 17 Sep 1995
PTB Balochistan                 8          7th meeting - 03 July 1995
8th meeting - 08 Jan. 1996
Data on turn-over of Chairmen/Secretaries of NTB/PBs
Post                                                              No ot changes
________ ________ _______ ________ ________ ________  .  _________I_                      1987-1997
Federal Miniister of Labour. Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis    Chairnan. NTB                        7
Federal Secretary of Labour. Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis    Alternate Chairman NTB in            7
the absence of tie Minister
of Labour
Director General, National Training Bureau                       Secreary, NTB                        4
Secretai- of Labour. Punjab                                      Chairnan. PTB Punjab                10
Director of Manpower & Training, Punjab                          Secretary. PTB Punjab                6
Secretarv of Labour. Sindh                                       Chairnan, PTB Sindh                  8
Director of Manpower & Training, Sindh                           Secretary, PTB Sundh                 7
Secretary of Labour, NWFP                                        Chairman, PTB NWFP                   7
Director of Manpower & Training, NWFP                            Secreary, PTB NWFP                   4
Secretar) of Labour. Balochistan                                 Chairnan, PTB Balochistan           12
Director of Manpower & Trainmng, Balochistan                     Secreary, PTB Balochisvin           t
Total changes                                                               82



24
INIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN- SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDrr 1670-PK
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                    at appraisal/redefined         Status           Impact of Study
Training Needs Study                  To identify needs of semi-     Completed       Served as a basis for
skilled/skilled manpower in                   restructuring the project
selected rural/agricultural
locations
Cost Recoverv and the Financing of    To serve as a basis for        Completed       Follow-up action not
Vocational Training                   partial cost recovery to                      initiated
._____________________   supplement O&M budgets.
Financial Compensation Schemes and    To serve as a basis of         Completed                -do-
Training in Private Enterprises       possible public support to
the private sector.
Rural Apprenticeship Proaram          To extend the                    Partially              -do-
apprenticeship training        Completed
through use of spare
capacity of public sector
institutions and programs
located in rural areas.
Sunrev of Industrial Secaor Needs and    To identify needs for         Partially               -do-
the Demand of Advanced (G-I)          highly-skilled workers.         Completed
Vocational Training
Training of Women                     To identify employment       Uncommissioned  This study remained
prospects and skill-training                  uncommissioned at
needs in modem                                project completion.
trades/techniques for
women.



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table BA: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)    Restructured Estimate (USSM)      Actual (USIM)
Components           Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total
Vocational Training           30.61    18.21    48.82      45.92   29.41    75.33      43.23    26.80   70.03
Apprenticeship Training        1.18    0.29     1.47        2.19    1.91    4.10        3.49     1.36    4.85
Women's Training               5.99    1.91     7.90        7.51    5.19   12.70        7.93     3.80    11.73
Instructor Training            2.07     1.14    3.21       4.63     5.84    10.47       6.51     3.43    9.94
Management/implementation      2.28    2.13    4.41         2.95    10.69   13.64       4.96     8.75   13.71
Studies                        0.05    0.00    0.05         0.20    -       0.20        0.10     -       0.10
Baseline cost               42.18   23.68   65.86
Contingencies:
Physical                       3.76    2.21    5.97
Price increase                13.55    7.95    21.50
Sub-total                    17.31   10.16   27.47
Total                        59.49    33.84   93.33       63.40   53.04   116.44      66.22   44.14   110.36
GTZ's Technical Assistance     0.95    3.85    4.80
Total project cost           60.44    37.69   98.13      63.40   53.04   116.44       66.22   44.14   110.36
GTZ's technical assistance was committed after appraisal and Credit negotiations.



26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 88: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Restructured Estimate (USSM)     Actual (US$M)
Components          Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total
IDA
Civil Works                  10.97    1.53   12.50        3.95    0.56    4.51         2.74    0.40    3.14
Furniture & Professional Fee  0.98    0.13    1.11        0.41    0.06    0.47        0.62    0.09    0.71
Equipment                    8.24    11.77   20.01       12.64   18.96   31.60       10.33   15.50   25.83
Equipment Management                          0.00        -       2.01    2.01        -        3.25    3.25
Books                        0.23    0.06    0.29         0.23    0.06    0.29        0.05    0.05    0.10
Expert Services              -        -       0.00        0.34    0.44    0.78        0.34    0.44    0.78
Fellowships                  -        -       0.00        0.05    0.32    0.37        0.05    0.32    0.37
Salaries of Additional Staff  4.19    0.00    4.19        4.21    -        4.21       2.40    -        2.40
Consumable Materials          0.06    1.00    1.06        0.04    0.58    0.62        0.06    0.83    0.89
Operation & Maintenance       0.89    0.15    1.04        0.99    0.11    1.10         1.21    0.16    1.37
Sub-total:                    25.56   14.64   40.20       22.86   23.10   45.96        17.80   21.04   38.84
EEC
Civil Works & Professional Fee    6.25  0.88    7.13      6.25    0.88    7.13         2.05    0.29    2.34
Equipment & Eqpt. Mgt. Fee    2.41    3.44    5.85        2.41    3.44    5.85         1.61    2.30    3.91
Vehicles                      0.15    0.18    0.33        0.15    0.18    0.33         0.84    1.01    1.85
Sub-total:                    8.81     4.50   13.31        8.81    4.50   13.31        4.50    3.60    8.10
CIDA
Equipment & Ept. Mgt. Fee     2.34    3.35    5.69        0.74    1.11    1.85         0.54    0.81    1.35
Expert Services               0.14    0.36    0.50        1.02    2.82    3.84         1.53    2.35    3.B8
Fellowships                   0.20    0.12    0.32        0.22    0.60    0.82         0.26    0.35    0.61
Sub-total:                     2.68    3.83    6.51        1.98    4.53    6.51         2.33    3.51    5.84
GTZ (Technical Assistance)     3.43    1.37   . 4.80       1.01     3.79    4.80        0.87    2.53    3.40
UNDP (Technical Assistance)    0.29    2.60    2.89        0.41     3.13    3.54        0.41    3.13    3.54
Domestic Government o0 Pakistan
Civil Works & Professional Fee    4.26  0.59    4.85      6.56    0.92    7.48         9.82    2.10    11.92
Furniture                     0.23    0.03    0.26        0.11    0.01     0.12        1.43    0.17    1.60
Equipment & Management Fee    5.62    8.02   13.64        8.41    12.00   20.41       13.20    5.10   18.30
Vehicles                      0.12    0.14    0.26        -       -        0.00        0.24    0.28    0.52
Salaries ot Acditional Stall  7.14    -        7.14      11.38    -       11.38       12.17    -       12.17
Stipends                      0.69    -        0.69       -        -       0.00        0.21    -        0.21
Consumable Materials          0.10    1.71    1.81        0.26    0.79    1.05         0.25    2.17    2.42
Operation & Maintenance       1.51    0.26    1.77        1.61    0.27     1.88        2.99    0.51    3.50
Sub-total:                   19.67   10.75   30.42        28.33   13.99   42.32       40.31    10.33   50.64
Total Project Financing       60.44   37.69   98.13       63.40   53.04  116.44        66.22   44.14  110.36



27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
A                       l                   T  StatusDescriptionoCovantCommentsPresent
Agreement    Section       Covenant Type       Status         Description of Covenant         Comments
Credit      6.01(a)      Institutional           C      ECNEC's approval of project PC-I   Complied
6.01(b)      Procurement            C       Signing of ILO/EQUIPRO contract   Complied
for equipment procurement            ._|
6.01(c)      Cofinancing            C       Signing of other bilateral        Complied
agreements                                        l
6.02                                C       Ratification of Project Agreement  Complied
by Provinces
3.0 1(c)     Project                        Transfer of Credit proceeds to the  Complied
Implementation        C       Provinces
l___________ ____________ Program
4.01(b)      Accounts/Audit        CP       Have accounts audited annually and   Partially
furnish to IDA annual reports on  complied with.
project accounts by March 31 each    Audit reports
year                              with certificates
received up to
1994-95.
Qualified report
for 1994/95
under process.
Schedule 4.   Project               C       Establishment of Women            Complied
para I       Management                     Employment and Training Unit in
(bifii                                      the NTB
Schedule 4.   Project               C       Employment of Civil Engineering   Complied
para I       Management                     Advisor in the NTB
(b)fiii)
Schedule 4,   Project               C       Strengthening of M&E Unit in the    Complied
para I       Management                     NTB
(b)Wiv)
Schedule 4,   Project               C       Establishment of Women Training   Complied
para I       Management                     & Employment Unit in the PTBs
Schedule 4,   Project               C       Establishment of M&E Units in     Complied
para I       Management                     each PTB
(d)(iv)
Schedule 4,   Project              CD       Meeting of additional staff       Complied with
para 5       Management                     requirements                      long delays,
additional staff
in one province
still to be
regularized



28
Schedule 4.   Project                CD       Acquisition of land for new centers    Complied with a
para 6        Implementation                                                      2-year delay
l __________  ____________   Program
Schedule 4,   Sectoral               NC       Completion of Policy Studies and    Two studies
para 9        Policy/Institutional            follow-up action                    completed, two
(a).(b) &     Action, Studies                                                     partially
(cI                                                                               completed, and
one studv
rernained
uncommissioned.
No follow-up
action on studies
took place
Amended      Sectoral                CP      Establishment of Center              20 CMCs
Schedule 2,   Policy/Institutional           Management Committees (CMCs)    established in
Part A(4)    Action                          in selected existing and new training   existing training
centers                             centers of which
II are functional
Amended      Sectoral                NC      Establishment of mobile training     Not complied,
Schedule 2.   Policy/institutional           units in selected geographical areas   for want of a
Part A(5)    Action                                                               viable proposal.
Amended       Sectoral                C      Establishment of pilot Skill         2 SDCs
Schedule 2,   Policy/Institutional            Development Councils (SDCs) in      established at
Part A(6)    Action                          major industrial areas               Karachi and
Lahore
Amended       Sectoral                C       Establishment of Trade Testing      Complied
Schedule 2.   Policy/Institutional            Units in NWFP and Sindh
Pan A(7)     Action
Amended       Sectoral                C       Establishment of Staff Training     Complied
Schedule 2,   Policy/Institutional            Institutes in Sindh, NWFP and
Pan C(3)(2)  Action                          Balochistan
Amended       Project                 C       Appointment of an Equipment         Complied
Schedule 2,   Management                      Procurement Advisor in NTB
Pan E(5)
Amended       Project                 C       Transfer of construction            Complied
Schedule 4.   Management                      management to Provinces
para l(c)
Amended       Sectoral               CP       Introduction of broad-based         New VTCs not
Schedule 4,   Policy/Institutional            curricula in new VTCs               operationalized.
para IOa      Action                                                              Broad-based
curricula
developed and
implemented in
10 existing
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~V T C s.



29
Amended      Sectoral               CP      Notification to be issued to remove    Notification
Schedule 4,   Policy/lnstitutional          the distinction between ATCs,     issued by NTB.
para 10(b)    Action                        TTCs, GVls and VTCs               but remained
unimplemented
in the Provinces
Amended      Sectoral               C       Introduction of Social Studies    Complied
Schedule 4,   Policy/lnstitutional          Module in the training programs
para lOch    Action
Amended      Sectoral              NC       Enabling legislation for trade testing   Draft
Schedule 4,   Policy/Institutional          units in NWFP and Sindh           amendments
para 10(d)    Action                                                          prepared but not
legislated
Amended      Sectoral              NC      Revised legislation for            Draft legislation
Schedule 4,   Policy/institutional         apprenticeship training            prepirod; not
para 10(c)    Action                                                          legislated



30
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Relevant statements complied with.



31
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                    Revised                     Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks       US$000       Weeks        USSooo         Weeks        US$000
Through appraisal                n.a.         n.a.         55.7         112.1         55.7          112.1
Appraisal--Boaid                 n.a.         n.a.         45.6          91.3         45.6          91.3
Boaid--ettecii%eiiene            n.a.         n.a.          1.6           3.0          4.0           3.9
Supervisiuor                     n.a.         n.a.         184.8        316.4         189.2         348.4
Conmpletioin                     n.a.         n.a.          8.0          14.7          8.0           14.7
TOTAL                               0.0          0.0      295.7        537.5         302.5         570.4
Board date: 3 25 86
Efteciveness: 4.1 87



32
IMPLEMENTATION CONfPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                   Number                     Specialized
project cycle     Month/         of      Days in         staff skills      Impemen-        Develp-         Types of
year      persons     field         represented          tation         ment          problems
status      objectives
Identification          1184        7          21      Education Specialist
Vocational Educator
Training Specialist
Women Training
Specialist
Apprenticeship
Training Specialist
Management Expen
Architect
Preparation            5/84         6          24      Education Specialist                                                l
Architect
Vocational Educator
Appraisal              4/85          8         21      Education Specialist         .
Economist
Vocational Educator
Architect
Apprenticeship
Trg.Sp.
Women's Trg. Spec.
Post-Appraisal         12/86         3         14      Education Specialist                                                l
Architect
Supervision 1           7/87         3          12     Educaiion Specialist
Technical Educator
Architect
Supervision 11          1/88         2          5      Education Specialist
Technical Educator
Supervision Hi1         8/88         4         12      Education Specialist               :       -
Technical Educator
Architect
Supervision IV          3/89         4         17      Education Specialist        2              2
Technical Educator
Supervision V           9/89         3         20      Technical Educator           3             3         [P. DO, M
Architect
Supervision VI          5/90         3         12      Education Specialist         3             3         IP, DO, TA,
Technical Educator                                  CW, M. PR
______________________ ___________ __________ Architect (Cons.)
Supervision VI]        12/90         3         14      Education Specialist         3             3         IP, DO. TA,
Technical Educator                                  CW, M. PR
Architect (Cons.)
Division Chief



33
Supen ision Vl1        6/91        4          12      Education Specialist        3             3         IP. DO. M
Technical Educator
Architect (Cons.)
Division Chief            _
Super ision IX         11/91       5          23      Education Specialist        3             3         IP
Technical Educator
Architect (Cons.)
Supern ision X         8/92        2          17      Education Specialist        3             2        IP
Technical Educator
Architect (Cons.)
Supervision XI         2/93         2         1 1     Technical Educator          2             2        IP
Architect
Supervision XII        12/93        3         16      Education Specialist        2             2        IP, PR
Technical Educator
Architect (Cons.)
Super ision XIII       8/94        3          27      Education Specialist        S             S        CW, PR
Technical Educator
Architect (Cons.)
Superviksion XIV       1/95         1         5       Education Specialist        2             2        Limited SPN
Architect (Cons.)
Supervision XV         6/95         3         27      Education Specialist        S             S        CW. PR
Technical Educator
Architect (Cons.)
Super\ ision XVI       1/96        2          9       Education Specialist        S             S        PR
Architect
Completion             3/97         3         7       Education Specialist        S             S
Architect



34
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Appendix-A: Last Mission Aide-Memoire of Jan, 1996
PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINNG PROJECT
SUPERVISION MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
JANUARY 07-24. 1996
Introduction
1.   A joint donor mission comprising Messrs. Bashir Parvez (mission leader), Liam Owens and Pervaiz Vandel (IDA
consultants), Andrew Standlay (EU) and Zacarias Maribbay (CTA) reviewed progress on the Second Vocational Training Project
(Cr 1670-PAK) during the period January 07-24, 1996. Mr. Sher Akbar, Director General, National Training Bureau (NTBu)
and Project Director accompanied the mission during most of the provincial visits. The mission met senior federal and provincial
officials and other project entities, visited Vocational Training Centres ( VTCs) under construction, and held briefing sessions
with selected employers-chairpersons and employers-members of Centre Management Committees (CMCs) and Skill Developmen
Councils (SDCs). The draft Aide-Memoire was discussed and agreed in a federal wrap-up meeting chaired by Secretary, Ministry
of Labour. Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis, Government of Pakistan and participated by provincial representatives and those
of Ministry of Planning and Development and Economic Affairs Division.
2. The mission wishes to thankfully acknowledge the courtesies, cooperation and warm hospitality extended to it at the federal
level as well as in the provinces.
3. Being the last major mission before credit closure, it laid particular focus on collecting relevant basic data for the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) including current and likely expenditures upto closure and assessing the prospects of
completion of the unfinished agenda of work and of the sustainability of institutions. structures, staffing and other obligations
created under the project. The project entities and officials were also alerted to the need for planning their contribution to the
preparation ol thL ICR.
4. In addition to reporting on the current status of implementation of the project vis-a-vis the ' next steps' indicated by the July,
1995 mission, this Aide-Memoire presents:
i)     a summary of lessons learnt from IDA's two interventions in Pakistan's vocational training sector over the
period 1979-1996;
ii)    an overall project performance review over the project's life upto December, 1995;
iii)    major indicated actions during the period left to credit closing;
iv)    a summary of actions mandated after credit closing; and
v)      project cost tables, actual and anticipated disbursements and recommendations for a second partial credit
cancellation.
5. Lessons Learnt:
i)     A major lesson that stands out is that policy-makers and planners need a greater understanding of the dynamicz
of job creation and job-related training , if ccstly manpower shortages and surpluses are to be avoided.
ii)     Another, no less important, lesson is that public sector interventions in the training sector should essentially be
catalystic in nature to create a participative environment in which the training providers and the employers in



35
tandem can plan and deliver training programs in response to the market forces - the corollary being that public
sector training monopolies alone lead to gross inefficiencies, rapid obsolescence and rampant unemployability
of trained manpower.
iii)    Multi-sectoral policy-setting, coordinating and normative bodies have a long gestation period before becoming
productive. The National and the Provincial Training Boards have yet to assume a recognizable and effective
identity after two decades of operation.
iv)    The public sector continues to have major limitations in construction management.
v)      The informal sector complemented by enterprise-based on-the-job training will continue to be the main source
of trained manpower in Pakistan for a long time to come.
vi)     Recurrent operational budgets are likely to remain short-funded in the short and medium terms, which imply
prudent investments in further expansion of the training sector.
OVERALL PROJECT PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW OVER THE PROJECT'S LIFE
OBJECTIVE 1:            To improve the quality of the National Vocational Training System (NVTS)
6. Ma or Achievements/ Likelv Achievements upto credit closure:
i)     provision of new equipment worth about S 16 million to 20 existing vocational training centres (VTCs) and
worth about $ 10 million to 11 new VTCs;
ii)     establishing national and provincial training infrastructure for instructional staff with an increase in annual
training capacity from 60 to 300 and an output of 1902 trained instructors during the project's life:
iii)    preparation and initial implementation of a broad-based, multi-skill and modular training curriculum in 12
VTCs;
iv)    planning and deliverv of women technical training programs in 5 non-traditional, income-generation/wage
einployment skill trades on a successful, pilot basis:
vI      setting up several formal mechanisms, forums and prototypes (CMCs, SDCs, trade testing cells, standing
national committees on instructor training and apprenticeship training) for employers' institutionalized
participation in demand-led training planning, delivery and evaluation;
VI)    instituting monitoring and evaluation processes at the federal and the provincial levels to assess internal and
external system efficiencies;
vii)    shortening on a selective basis overall training duration and introduction of short, flexible and market-oriented
training courses, based on training needs surveys;
viii)   successfully undertaking and implementing a mid-project restructuring effort having system-wide implications
including a 50% reduction in the number of new VTCs from 31 to 16;
ix)     issuance of a rational and far-reaching national training policy;
x)     reconstituting the National Training Board (NTB) and the Provincial Training Boards (PTBs) with 50%
representation of employers;
xi)     addition of 76 management and M&E staff in the National Training Bureau (NTBu) and the provincial
Directorates of Manpower & Training (DMTs);
xii)    establishing women training and employment cells at the federal and provincial levels; and



36
xiii)   provision of 66.5 man-years of consultancy services (including TA provided by CIDA & GTZ), 21.3 man-
years of foreign fellowships and 426.5 man-years of local fellowship training compared respectively with SAR
provisions of 34.6 staff years, 10 staff years and 416.5 staff years.
7. Under-achievements:
i)     residual reluctance among provinces to fully accept and implement new curricula ( introduced/likely to be
introduced in only 12 existing VTCs out of a total of 86 VTCs) and in none of the still incomplete 16 new
VTCs;
ii)    only two out of the planned 4 SDCs established with only one of the two being fully functional;
iii)    only 9 of the 20 established CMCs being fully functional;
iv)     faltering use of M&E data in decision-making;
v)      inadequate follow-up on the provisions of the national training policy among several training providers; and
is     major delays in the completion of 2 out of 5 project studies and lack of action on related covenants.
v'ii}   interminable delays in amending the current training legislation
8. Failures:
i)     inadequate recurrent budget provisions for operation and maintenance expenditures. particularly on consumable
training materials, with the provinces of Punjab and Sindh meeting no more than half the stipulated norm;
ii)    persisting constraints in the effective decentralization of administrative and financial powers to the VTCs/CMCs,
resulting in delayed or inappropriate recruitment of instructional staff, inflexibility in the use of resources,
enduring rigidities in training programs and political intervensionism in day-to-day decision-making;
iii)    non-maturation of the NTB and the PTBs as effective normative and training coordination bodies with
independent resources outside government control.
OBJECTIVE l1:           To exnand the caiacitv of the NVTS to meet skilled and semi-skilled mannower requirements for the
industrial and apricultural/rural sectors
9. Achievements/Potential Achievements uDto credit closure:
i)     gradual increase in enrolment capacity in VTCs from 9913 in 1989 to 15644 in 1995;
ii)    provision of buildings and equipment to 11 new VTCs in agricultural/rural districts and 4 women technical
training centres (WTTCs) in major urban centres;
iii)    full operationalization of 2 new WTTCs in government-donated buildings and graduation of 921 women trainees
in 6 non-traditional, modern skilled trade areas;
iv)     provision of buildings and equipment to National Staff Training Institute (NSTI) and 3 Provincial Staff Training
Institutes (STIs);
v)      strengthening of apprenticeship and in-plant training services through provision of additional staff, vehicles and
technical assistance; apprenticeship training capacity increased from 5601 in 1990 to 8709 in 1995;
vi)    addition of 7 new trades in 20 existing VTCs with an additional capacity of 2592 trainees;
vii)    operation of 64 short, intensive and market-oriented courses though CMCs and SDCs with an output of 1579
trainees for wage employment/job upgradation;



37
viiii   completion of a study on 'Financial Compensation Schemes and Training in Private Enterprises'.
10. Under-achievements:
i)     long delays in the operationalization of new training curriculum in new VTCs with only 12 completed VTCs
likely to run broad-based courses in the closing months of the project;
ii)     non-operationalization of 3 new WTTCs during the project's life;
iii)   delayed amendments in apprenticeship training legislation;
I. Failures:
i)      non-mobilization of mobile training services in support of the informal sector during the project's life;
ii)    continuing reluctance among PTBs to moderate rigid, overly-long and expensive training programmes;
iii)    lack of success of the NTB/PTBs in mounting meaningful interventions towards moderating the proliferation
of supply-driven vocational training programs and institutions among several public sector training providers
led by the Ministry of Education;
iv)     non-mobilization of public sector suppon to private sector training institutions;
v~ )    delays in the satisfactorv completion of a project study on 'Rural Apprenticeship Training", thus precluding any
follow-up action in starting an experimental scheme.
OBJECTIVE III:          To assist the Government in establishinn a clear policv for cost recovery
12. Achievement/Potential Achievement:
i)      modest cost recovery through custom-built short courses run through CMCs and SDCs;
ii)     imposition in some provinces of training materials and trade testing fees/funds to be charged to trainees:
iii)    completion of a study on "Cost Recovery".
13. Failures:
i)      non-enhancement of nominal fees charged to trainees in existing VTCs;
ii}     very slow recognition by decision-makers of the need and rationale of cost recovery;
iii)    continuing subsidies and stipends to trainees in some provinces to stimulate artificial social demand for
vocational training.
Overview of vroiect verformance since Julv. 1995 mission
The mission welcomes follow-up actions on most 'next steps" identified by the July, 1995 mission. Individual status of progress
is reflected as under:
14. ComWleted Actions: Major completed actions include reconstitution of all PTBs and inactive CMCs, further extension of TA,
training of master trainers in the use of new curricula, satisfactory resolution of water supply issue in VTCs Hangu and Karak,
finalization of tendering for all remaining VTCs except one, industrial attachment of instructors, introduction of new trade courses
and engagement of top supervision consultants by PTB Punjab.
15. Oneoinp Ations: Ongoing actions include regularization of ad-hoc appointments against a few management staff positions
in NTBU and provinces through notification of approved service rules, rationalization of instructional staff strength across VTCs,



38
introduction ot broad-based curricula in selected existing VTCs, procurement of new equipment for II new VTCs and 2 new
WTTCs, commissioning of the project study on " Women Training", submission to IDA of reimbursement applications for
incurred elioible expenditures, making arrangements for staring short courses in 4 completed VTCs, making prioritized action
plans for implementing the national training policy, enactment of amendments in existing training legislation and enhancement
of cost recovery through short courses.
16. Under-addressed Actions: Only limited progress has been achieved on:
i >    pavments of escalation claims to contractors on the construction of 4 new VTCs (NTBu);
ii}    enhancement of trainine materials allocation (PTBs Sindh and Punjab);
iii)    phasing out of scholarships to trainees (PTB Balochistan),
iv)     rationalization of training programs and centres inherited from other departments (PTB Sindh); and
v)     instituting greater cost recovery from trainees in regular training programs (All PTBs).
17. Under the compulsion of credit closure on June 30. 1996. not much time is left to complete the ongoing actions of tara 15
and iniriatine under-addressed actions of tiara 16. The mission urees the NTBu/PTBs/DMTs to complete,' implement these actions
before closure and to report compliance to IDA by May 31. 1996.
18. New indicated actions upto credit closure:
i)      Enact by March 31. 1996, revised training legislation;
ii)     In view of the mandated depletion of IDA's Special Account Advance during the closing months of the project,
make available upfront government funds to complete procurement of ongoig civil works, equipment and
furniture and to finance operating costs; (NTBu);
iii     Transfer latest by February 29, 1996 necessary funds to PTBs to enable them to accomplish the preceding
action: (NTBu):
ivx     Finalize furniture specifications and initiate LCB procurement of furniture for 11-13 VTCS/WTTCs likely to
h. completed b! credit closure: (NTBu/PTBs);
Xi >    Ensure that at least 3 existing VTCs in every province  implement the broad-based curricula with effect from
the session starting in February/March, 1996; (PTBs);
xi)     Complete ICB procurement for 2 new WTTCs likely to be completed by credit closure; (NTBu);
vii)    Submit disbursement applications for eligible expenditures regularly and promptly every month; (NTBu/PTBs);
v'iii)    Provide additional funds to active CMCs, by divening the seed money from inactive CMCs, if necessary;
(NTBuiPTBs):
ix)     Ensure continued suppon to SDC Karachi. Activate SDC Lahore and if necessary, prepare a contingency plan
tor its reconstitution, re-staffing or eventual phase-out;
x)      Submit bv March 31, 1996 annual audit reports for 1994-95; (NTBu/PTBs);
xi)    In light of guidance provided by the mission, start planning the preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR); (NTBu);
xii)    Procure a generator for VTC (iawadar; (NTBu/PTB Balochistan);
xiiil   Introduce the Social Studies Module from the next session in all VTCs and all instructor training programs;
(NTBu/PTBs/NSTI/STIs);



39
XIv)    Take ov er the possesssion of the newiv completed buildings of VTCs Okara and DMJ. deploy staff and transfer
surplus equipment from existing VTCs to them to enable them to start shon training programs pending the
arrival of new equipment; (PTBs Punjab & Balochistan):
XV)     Make assured arrangements for adequate supply of municipal water to VTCs DMJ and Gawadar; (PTB
Balochistan);
xvi)    Complete the external efficiency study of the ongoing training programs and based on its results, phase out
inefficient programs; (NTBu/PTBs);
xvii)   Re-visit PTB's earlier decision to forego the creation of the position of employer-vice chairman for the PTB;
(PTB NWFP);
xviii)   Resolve by January 31, 1996 the dispute on the possession of land for the construction of WTTC Rawalpindi
and if it remains unresolved, scuttle construction plans. (NTBu/PTB Punjab);
xix)    Scuttle construction plans for VTC Layyah;
XX)     Complete the study on ' Rural Apprenticeship' and 'Level I Training' and commission the one on 'Women
Trainine" and implement the outcomes of the ' Cost Recovery Study' and 'Financial Compensation Schemes
and Training in Private Enterprises'.
xxi)   Implement the actions under "Next Steps' in the Annex on Civil Works;
xxii)   Make viable arrangements to partially meet the salary expenditures of the CEOs of the viable SDC(s) and their
staff:
19. Actions mandated after credit closure:  After credit closure, the federal and the provincial governments are obligated to
ensure the sustainabilitx of the institutions, programs, structures, staffing and recurrent expenditures created under the project.
This would involve the following separate sets of actions:
A.      Provision of adequate budgets to meet the contracted obligations of incomplete buildings of VTCs and procurement of
equipment for them after the closing date of June 30, 1996.
B.      Transfer of all incremental management and instructional staff positions to the regular recurrent budgets through SNE
1996-97 tAnnex-V) iPTBs Balochistan and Punjab have already met this obligation);
C.      Sustained budeetary and administrative support to 3 trade testing cells. 3 staff training institutes, 4 monitoring and
evaluation units. I federal women training and employment unit. 4 provicial women employment cells and the national
staff training institute (NSTI).
D.      Sustained support to the highly successful exemplars of SDC Karachi, CMC Hub, CMCs WTTCs Quetta, Peshawar and
Karachi. CMC TTC Quetta along with qualified suppon to other CMCs and SDCs which assume palpable operational
life before credit closure. Over time plan the replication of the successful exemplars of SDCs/CMCs.
E.      Assured allocation of adequate training materials budgets ( no less than Rs. 150 per trainee per month) to all existing
and new VTCs
F.      Provision of full financing to procure equipment for about 8 new VTCs, whose delayed completion precluded equipment
supply before credit closure.
G.      Gradual replacement of old training curricula with new broad-based, multi-skill modular curricula in all existing VTCs
and the introduction of new curricula in all new VTCs.
H.      Gradual enhancement of fees and user charges in all VTCs to cover at least 3540% of the unit expenditure per trainee
a'-ng with partial stipendary support to indigent and deserving trainees.
1.      Provision of NSTI/STIs training to all instructors, with each instructor receiving a module of training at least cnce in
two years.



40
i       Preparation and submission to IDA by August 31, 1996 Part 11 of the ICR; and
K.      Full implementation of revised and enacted training legislation.
Performance Overview of Successful Exemplars of Employers-led Structures created under the Project
20. The mission wishes to pav a glowing tribute to the outstanding work accomplished by the following project-led
council;committees:
21 SDC Karachi: This Skill Development Council has lived upto its promise by completing/ initiating the following activities
outside the normal public sector programs:
i)      training/retraining needs survey for Karachi-based industries;
ii)     inventory of 50 training providers;
iii)    constituting trade technical committees to incorporate market-oriented revisions in existing training courses;
iv)     custom-tailored training of the first batch of 600 out of 2000 selected youth in employable skills started;
x >     training of 12 first-line supervisors;
Xi      plans made for the training of trainers and small entrepreneurs;
viii    a training awareness program, recognition of outstanding employers and highly-skilled workers, vocational
,guidance and career counselling, education and training of informal sector's young workers and augmentation
of the SDC's resources to make it self-sustaining.
22 CMC TTC Hub: This Centre Management Committee has enriched the performance of an otherwise lack-lustre TTC through
the following work:
i I     introduction of cost recovery programs of varying duration for the benefit of 107 trainees;
ii)     increasing of the TTC's enrolment from 6 to 84;
ij)     traininm needs survey in process,
is      industrial attachment of 3 instructors per week;
Xi      execution of contracted assignment through trainees and instructors on income-sharing basis:
vii     starting a trainees counselling service
-ii     active assistance in placement of passed-out trainees in jobs;
Viii    arranging on-the-job training for 21 trainees in 7 industries
ix)     orientation program for employers on what the TTC is doing;
x)      partial phasing-out of trainees' stipends through offsetting against training-related expenditures incurred by the
TTC;
xi)     positive and helpful interventions in the day-to-day life of the TTC;
xii)    profitablie disposal of metal scrap collected as a by-product of training; and
xiii)   enforcement of economy in power bills with a saving of 25%



41
23. C.MCs TTC Ouetta and WTTCs Peshawar. Ouetta and Karachi: These CMCs have demonstrated their active presence
through the following activities
i)     introduction of short custom-built training courses on cost recovery basis;
ii)    starting of production function through internship of passed-out trainees in Dress-making and Beautician trades
(WTTC Quetta);
iii)   two new trades started in Commnercial Cooking and Food Processing and Preservation (WTTC Quetta).
24. Civil Works: (See Annex-i for details)
Timely completion of buildings for new VTCs has remained a major constraint. Under the federal management, of the original
10 VTCs only 4 are complete, 3 had to be excluded from the project financing due to major departures from IDA's procurement
guidelines, 2 may be completed by June 1996 while I is likely to stretch beyond credit closure. The unresolved issue of
escalation payments to contractors is the major constraint to completion of work at Khairpur, Shikarpur and Muzaffargarh.
Comparatively 10 centers under provincial construction management, starting in mnid-1995, have developed sufficient momentum
to promise completion of 4 by June 1996, while the remaining 6 would finish variously between June and December 1996. Top-
Supervision (TS) consultants have been engaged, however, with the exception of the firm supervising Gawadar, they need to
improve the quality of staff deployed and their format for monitoring and reporting. TS consultants in Punjab were engaged only
on Jan 10, 1996. and have yet to start work. Tender for construction of the WTTC Rawalpindi was awarded for a site with
disputed ownership. Unless work starts on this site or an alternate by Jan. 31, 1996, IDA will have to withdraw the NOC given
earlier. Total expenditure on civil works to date (Dec 95) is Rs.242.62 m and the additional estimated expenditure up to June
1996 is Rs. 141.91 m. After project closure an estimated amount of Rs.75.03 m will have to be borne by the GoP to complete
the on-going works.
Status of construction of TTCs and WTTCs
Center                   Start                          Expected Completion
Completed
By June 96     Oct-Dec
_____________          ~96
Under federal
miana2ement                             Sept 94
Hangu                    Nov 90         Sept 94   Jan
'iarak                   Dec 91         96
Okara                    Jun 89         Jan 96
DMJamali                 Oct 92
Khairpur                 Dec 91                        March 96
Shikarpur                Dec 91                        June 96
M uz.affargarh
First contract          Jun 89
Second contract          Jun 93                                        Aug 96
Under provincial
manaeement
Gawadar                  Jun 95                        June 96
Rahim yar Klhan          Jun 93                        June 96
Multan                   Jun 95                        June 96
NSTI                     July 95                       June 96
Abbottabad               Jun 95                                        Aug 96
Attock                   Oct 95                                        Sept 96
Hyderabad                Dec 95                                        Oct 96
Naushero Feroze          Sept 95                                       Sept 96
Sanghar                  Aug 95                                        Oct 96
Rawa ;;indi              Sept 95                                       Dec 96



42
25. Equipment Procurement: IDA has issued its no-objection to the ICB procurement of new equipment worth aboutS 6.7
million for 9 VTCs. either with completed buildings or with those likely to be completed by credit closure. Meanwhile the
prospects of completion of 2-3 more under-construction VTCs have brightened and the mnission has agreed to consider
NBTu's proposal to have the equipment being procured increased by about 20 %, in accordance with the provisions of IDA
guidelines. A formal proposal with detailed justification will be submitted by NTBu for a formal clearance by IDA.
26. While IDA had agreed to the ICB procurement of new equipment for 3 new WTTCs, two of which are under
construction, unless a solution is found to the land dispute for the third WTTC at Rawalpindi by January 31, 1996, the ICB
procurement will have to be confined to only two WTTCs. NTBu needs to alert their procurement agent (EQUIPRO)
accordinglv.
27. Furniture Procurement: The mission notes with concern that so far no preparations have been made for the LCB
procurement of furniture for new VTCS. The PTBs need to receive the necessary signal from the NTBu along with
supporting resources to go ahead with drawing up specifications of the required furniture, prequalifying suppliers and inviting
bids. No more time should be lost in initiating the procurement process. The mission wishes to note that any furniture
contract equivalent to or exceeding $ 100,000 shall need IDA's prior clearance.
28. Technical Assistance: The general utilization of TA, financed initially by UNDP and subsequently by the Credit itself
has been satisfactory. The mission, however, perceives a critical need for additional TA during the period to closing of the
credit. The fledgling SDCslCMCs need short-term expatriate TA not exceeding 2 mannonths. Further, an extension in the
CTA's contract for another 3-4 months beyond February 29, 1996 would be instrumental in holding the project together
during its closing months. An alternative could be to invite the CTA back for short visits. subject to his availability. The
mission. however understands that except for an amount of $ 40,000 left out of the committed TA for fellowships, no
resources are available for meeting the proposed additional TA needs. The mission recommends two options for the
consideration ot'hlie Nlinistrv of Labour, Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis. Government of Pakistan,
i I    foregoing the remaining fellowship program and utilizing the saving for consultancies; and
ii)    tapping additional credit money, to which IDA will have no objection.
During the wrap-up meeting. the mission would seek GOP's reactions to these options.
29. Studies: The mission notes with deep concern that the studies on" Rural Apprenticeship Training" and " Level I
Trainine" still remain incomplete and the one on " Women Training" uncommissioned. The delays in the completion of the
these proleci studies has already precluded the possibility that GOP can meet the dated covenanted actions on their outcomes.
Some action has already ensued on the "Cost Recovery" study, but GOP/GoProvinces have yet to institute sustainable modes
of cost recovery- The results of the fifth study on " Financial Compensation and Training in Private Enterprises" also remain
unutilized. All in all, the protect performance on timely completion of the studies and their use has remained unenviable. The
mission regrets that thus far GOP/GoProvinces have been denied the benefits that were to accrue from these studies and urges
NTBu to salvage some of these benefits during the remaining life of the project by completing/commissioning
incompleie/unconimissioned studies and implementing the recommendations of the completed studies.
30. Proiect Expenditures and Disbursement: (see Annex-Il for details)
According to the information supplied by the National Training Bureau, the following expenditures have been incurred. Total
project expenditures upto 12(95 amount to Rs. 1718.59 millions which register an increase of Rs. 41 millions with the
expenditure reflected in 06/95. The anticipated expenditures upto credit closing are estimated to be Rs. 2089 millions. The
mission is concerned to note that not much disbursement has been claimed since the last mission. Monthly reimbursements
of the order of USS 2.5 - 3.0 millions would be necessary, if the remaining amount of US$ 18.5 millions is to be fully and
productively disbursed.



43
Project _xpenditures
Total Expenditure                   Credit         Expenditure
Component        l                                               Disbursement      incurred but
June 95        Dec 95      Projected to                     not claimed
une96
Civil Works                  341.80         362.285       414.91          98.66             32.83
Equipment                   784.358         793.856      1.018.44        704.22                        |
Operatinu  Cost             244.843         253.009       366.02          82.09             11.88
Technical Assistance        304.966         307.635       285.43          27.14                        |
Studies                        1.8            1.8          4.80             -
Total              1,677.767       1,718.59     2,089.61         912.11            44.71
Project Disbursements
Funds         Funds        Disbursed        Eligible       Estimated
Available     Available       Dec-95       Expenditure    Disbursement
Component                  D                                         up to 6/96      up to 6/96
SDRs          US$            US5             US$             USS
1. Civil Works                    4.100.000      6.022.121      1,659.524      3,804.680       2.555.545
2. FurniturerProfessional tee      1.000.000     t.468.810       344,448        826,825         600.413
3. Equipment                      21.300.000    31.285,653      19.145.856     11.748.000      13.165.647
4. Equipment Management
tee (TiA. tellowships. trg    and    3.700,000   5,434.597      3.850.173       1.074.000       1,298,421
consultants services)
5 Books                             100.000       146.881         2.231           1.471           1.500
6. Consumable trc materials        3,100,000     4.553.311      2.085.348      2.535,294        1.012.059
Op. nl;intnieance
7 Unallocated                       90,000        132,192           0              0               0
SA - All Categories                                             2.693.033
Total                33,390,000    49,043,565     29,780,614      19,990,270      18,633.584
31. Contn-ued Expansion of Suoolv-Driven Trainine Programs: The mission is profoundly disturbed over the
continuing departures from the National Training Policy, as also from the strong and highly defensible recommendations
ol the GOP's if n Manpower Commission Report of 1989. both of which discourage emphatically any further
expansion ot supply-driven programs of vocational training in the public sector. An evaluation of the crash training
program launched two years ago indicates a high rate of unemployability among the trained persons. The Ministry of
Education is cut rently sponsoring a huge program with an outlay of Rs I billion and comprising the establishment of
70 new Model Vocational Training Centres and the introduction of vocational courses in 100 selected secondary
schools The mission notes that in its meeting of Nov 08. 1995 the National Training Board did discuss the feasibility of
injecting a protessional advice on this project in the deliberations of the CDWP but for unclear reasons failed to pursue
it. The mission suggests that another attempt be made by the NTB to have the approved scheme reviewed and its scope
reduced siQn,ficantlv in accordance with market needs with emphasis on panicipatory programs, as mounted by some
CMCs and SDC Karachi. The NTB also needs to assume a regulatory charter to guard against uninformed training
investments in the future.
32. Trainine Legislation: Although the pronosed amendments in the National Training Ordinance and the
Apprenticeship Training Ordinance have cu- ered some additional bureaucratic ground since the July mission, their final
enactment is still to materialize. The NTBu has assured the mission that these enactments will definitely happen by
March. 1996. With all the emphasis at its command, the mission underscores the dire need for keeping to this schedule.
without which the project would end with an unfinished task of the highest importance, as mandated by the National
Training Policy.



44
33. Annexes:
Annex-I    Civil Works
Annex-Dl   Cost Tables
Annex-i - VTCs Training Intake & output over the                period 1989-95
Annex-lV  - Apprenticeship Training Intake ovcr 1990-           95
Annex-V  - Details of Incremental Staff to be                regularised during 1996-97
Annex-VI - Current Schedule of Instructor-Trainee              Ratio
Annex-VIl - Status of Womens Training Component



45                                   Annex-I
Pg 1
Centre-Wise Status of CivD Works
Construction progress and quality as observed during site visits.
Centers constructed under federal management.
1.    _aK k and HangI: Completed and handed over to PTB.
2.    Dera Murad Jamali
The construction work of the center is complete and is awaiting take over by
the PTB. The water supply connection allowed to the center by the municipal
authorities is of half an inch opening only which is insufficient. There being a general
shortage of water in the area the problem does not appear to have any immediate
solution. Temporarily, the center may have to share water with the labor colony built
next door.
Next Steps
PTB should take over the center by February 1996 and prepare the list
of works / rectification to be done.
3.    Khairpur
The center is almost complete, work on the roads within the center is in
progress. The quality is good. The constraints to final finishing are (i) delays in the
payment of escalation due to the contractor under the contract, (ii) delay in giving
decisions in writing by the NTB regarding sewage connection and (iii) delay at the
NTB in submitting the forms for getting electricity connection from the WAPDA.
Work could be finished by March 1996.
Next Steps
*        NTB should give the decisions regarding the left pending works in
order to enable the contractor to finish and hand over the building.
4.    Shikarpur
The work is in state of suspension with small items of work being carried out
for the sake of formality. The amount of remaining work is substantial and being of
nature of finishing surfaces will take more time. If the main constraint, non payment
of due escalation, is removed by February at least 4 months more would be required
to finish the works i.e. by July 1996.



46                                        Annex-I
Next Ste1p                                                                  Pg 2
*        Settle the issue of escalation payments.
*        Make the site supervision more effective by asking PEPAC to change
the RE at site.
5.    Okaa
After prolonged delays the remaining works at Okara were retendered at the
contractor's risk and cost. Works of value of about Rs.3.0 m (civil works) and
Rs.4.4 m (electrical) were awarded on June 30, 1995 with 3 months time for
completion. While the electrical work is mostly completed (except where completion
of civil works is a pre-requisite) civil works are not yet fully finished. Very small
items (finshing of the gate, gate-house and pumphouse) are pending.
Next Step
*     After due warning, expel the contractor from the site, complete the remaining
items at the contractor's expense and hand over to PTB by February, 1996.
6.    Muzaffargarh
Work is delayed due ostensibly to the unresolved issue of payment of escalation but
the contractor cannot be absolved from the charge of indifference and lack of interest
to finish the work. There is also the issue of items (e.g. doors) supplied by the
contractor which do not conform to specifications for which the contractor insists for
payment. The mission iterates that no deviation from specifications be allowed
without good reason and only on approval of the owner. The boundary wall to the
rear of the site has large openings (varying from 2 ft to 3 ft high) under the
supporting beam creating security problems. Also the rear portion of the site has
been filled with sand without regard to the behaviour of the sub-surface water. This
could lead to unstable conditions in the long run unless adequate drainage
arrangements are made.
Next Steps
*     Make the escaltion payment due to the contractor no later than Feb 15, 1996.
*     Exercise option under clause 17 (action against non performing contractor) of
contract if contractor continues to delay work.
*     Pepac should propose design solutions to the gaps in the boundary wall and the
drainage of the ground water.
Centers under provincial management
7.    Abbottabad
Started in June 1995, the construction at the center is about 50% complete.
The work done is estimated at about Rs. 9.0 million of the tender value of about
Rs. 17.6 million. Further progress depends upon the timely transfer of funds from the



Annex-I
47                                            Pg 3
NTB to PTB. The provision of open courtyard, a feature of the dry and hot climates,
in the mostly cold and wet climate of Abbottabad should be reconsidered and, funds
permitting, it could be roofed to provide additional space within the workshop areas.
The supervision staff have been negligent to allow high ceilings (16 ft) for small
rooms (9 ft.9 ft) and extra-deep excavation for the sewer pipes. The drawings
provided by PEPAC are ambiguous on these matters. The Top-Supervision (TS)
consultants should have exercised vigilance in the review of drawings to remove all
shortcomings. The quality of detailed site supervision by C&W, the top-supervision
and the reporting system needs to be improved through assigning better staff and
developing an efficient reporting format. (The representative of the TS consultant at
the time of the visit of the mission was ill-informed and admitted to being unaware of
the issues this being his first visit. The C&W staff were all new to the site due to
transfers.) The expected completion date is June 1996.
Next Steps
Prepare updated schedule of construction along with a schedule of fund-
requirements for more effective monitoring.
C &W should ensure continuity of supervision avoiding too many
transfers.
-The TS consultants should develop a comprehensive reporting format (
a requirement of their TORs) to show progress achieved in relation to
that planned.
8.    Attock
Started in October 1995, the progress at site is about 30%. The work done is
estimated at about Rs. 4.0 million of a tender value of Rs. 13.58 million. The
concrete of roof slab of the residences showed honey combing and dripping concrete
due to wide joints between shuttering planks. The C&W supervision needs to be
improved. Although two sub-engineers are appointed for the site none was available at
the time of the visit by the mission to the site. The construction of workshop building
is delayed due to change in specifications of steel from TOR steel of 60,000 psi to
Deformed bars of 40,000 psi by the C&W. The mission fails to see the need for the
change and iterates that the specification should not be changed. The delay in
construction in view of the approaching project closing date is regrettable. Top-
Supervision consultants had not been appointed at the time of visit (Jan. 8, 1996).
The expected date of completion is August 1996.
Next Steps
*        Immediately start construction of the workshop building according to
the original specifications for steel and complete it by June 1996.
*        Ensure continuous on-site supervision by C&W staff.



Annex-I
48                                 Pg 4
Appoint TS consultants and require an updated schedule of construction
and fund utilization.
9.    WTTC  Rawalpindi
The work was awarded and started on a site the ownership of which has
become controversial. The mission fails to appreciate why the ownership issue was
not clarified before tendering. The PTB can attempt to get the land on lease from the
Army or find another site. Unless the issue of ownership is resolved by January 31,
1996 IDA would have no option but to withdraw the NOC given.
Next Step
*        Resolve the ownership issue and restart construction by January 31,
1996.
10.   Gawadar
The work done at site is estimated at about Rs 9.0 million of a tender value of
Rs 17.3 million showing 45% progress. The quality of the work is satisfactory due to
effective supervision by the Engineering Cell, Department of Labour, Balochistan.
Top-Supervision (TS) consultants are also on board and their format of reports is
satisfactory. Review of the PEPAC design and drawings by the TS consultant
revealed inadequate reinforcement for beams and other short comings which have
been duly modified. The power supply to the center from WAPDA is presently
uncertain and insufficient and a generator will be needed till such time it improves.
The PTB should procure a generator of the needed capacity. Water supply is also
uncertain and an underground water tank (not provided in the PEPAC design) is
needed. The approach road to the center also needs to be properly constructed.
Proposals for the additional works (provision of a Generator, underground tank and
the approach road) have been prepared and submitted to the DG NTB. The mission
has no objection to the additional works required. The completion date is estimated
to be June 1996.
Next Steps
*        Determine the power requirements in view of the proposed training
program and initiate steps for the procurement of a generator.
*        Ensure adequate supply of water for the center.
11.   W<TC Hvderabad
The work was started in December 1995 and the progress on site is about 8%
with estimate of work done being of about Rs 1.2 million of a tender value of Rs 16
million. TS consultant have been appointed however they need to improve their
monitoring and reporting format. The works can be completed by September 1996
provided the flow of funds is not interrupted.



49                                       Annex-I
Next Steps                                                                        Pg 5
*        Shift priority to ensure completion of workshop buildings by June 1996
and completion of the center by September 1996
*        Prepare updated schedule of works and monitor progress in detail.
Require better reporting and monitoring formats from the TS
consultant.
12.   Sangeh
The mission was unable to visit TIC Sanghar due to the law and order
situation. The reported progress on the site is only about 10% in the five months of
construction. The contractor needs to accelerate the pace of construction. If the
contractor makes a special effort the work could be completed by October 1996.
Next Steps
Shift priority to ensure completion of workshop buildings by June 1996
and completion of the center by September 1996.
*        Prepare updated schedule of works and monitor progress in detail.
*        Require better reporting and monitoring formats from the TS
consultant.
13.   Naushero Feroze
Started in September 1995, the construction is estimated to be about Rs.2.5
million of a tender value of Rs. 17.5 million giving progress of about 15 %. The
progress is slow and the contractor will need to employ extra labor to ensure
completion by the stipulated completion date of June 1996. The quality of bricks is
not satisfactory. The supervisors must ensure that the bricks meet the specifications
given in the contract documents. The mobilization and earnestness of the contractor
looks promising and the works may be complete by August 1996.
Next Steps
*     Have the bricks tested in a building material laboratory to ensure
compliance with specifications.
*     Shift priority to ensure completion of workshop buildings by June 1996
and completion of the center by September 1996.
*     Prepare updated schedule of works and monitor progress in detail.



50                                       Annex-I
Pg 6
Require better reporting and monitoring formats from the TS
consultant.
15.   WlTC Multan
Work of value of more than Rs.7.0 m out of a tender value of about Rs.14.0 m has
been carried out giving a 50% progress. The work is of good quality and there is
good chance of completion by June 96. The PEPAC design has, unfortunately, not
provided for adequate shading of windows in the very hot climate of Multan. The
mission has no objection to provision of window shades (conrete louvers orja)i work)
for the work shops and multi purpose room windows.
Next Step
*     PTB should ensure that there is no hindrance to flow of funds commensurate
with work requirements.
Under PWD, GoP Management
16.   NSTI
Started in July 95, the work is proceeding apace with construction of about
Rs. 11.0 million of a tender value of Rs.24.0 million achieving a progress of about
45%. Except for some beam and column joints the quality of construction is
satisfactory. Shuttering supports had punctured the window shades on the first floor.
The PWD supervisory staff should ensure that such or similar lapses do not occur
again. The design provides for a 14 ft long cantilever as a porch. In view of the
seismic considerations, now a mandatory requirement in Islamabad, and the generally
prevalent uncertain construction quality, the design should be modified to provide
supporting columns under the porch. It is part of the duties of the TS consultants,
NESPAK, to review drawings and develop reporting formats. The staff deployed for
top-supervision need to be aware of their TORs.
Next Steps
*     NESPAK should provide modified drawings for the porch with
supporting columns.



N%TP Pr.j.d Phase II
Latest t%penditures inclusive (of rcvised estimates
Annex II.                                     up to closu rt or IDA  Credit on 30.06.199M.
?rcnd. Cos     Work pstd (or      E,d...t fr furt.~her    r.iI.... of bl.I   Balance requir.4   wAind3   FtJ wed IamPunI      4'ud            Url to
Cost Tablex                            o Cosrwl         VP toi. it 2. 1995    .14.nUmr by NMh   *%p-.dlf,.,. untul credi3t  I i.1 41..l,3       la et Awe w4                         be dbw
Prrmeup ohi,t1  341.0639   ed.urt en 30066 3996                DCA           bCA                            by09  39916
Amended DCA
I. Cti, Wed rk_                                                                                                                                                                     _    _
(11.11) Cml * .tI.d
I. ~~~~~'T(  lange               932,13041               0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~932.0430          It          0a                                 
2.VTC Kuruk                      1.35.2.13041            0                 ~~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~      ~     ~~~~~ ~~                ~       ~~1.152.01414  0  -0  a    
4. vrcok~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~400.000                                   43                 44141.000             II            0             0                                  0
5. VTCShIkarpar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0w                                 125,04110             2,141410                           0               0                       0
4. VIC Khalrpur                            ~~~~~~~~~                         ~       ~~~~290.000  0  21141,000  it                       000
7. NT( DeraNlturad Jamall ___                                                      0                     0                   43           0             0                 0               0
I. ~~~~~TCAdock                  544,000                 0                  5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60.000  0                              0000
9. VTCLAakyI           -                                    m..000                 0                  25.4.00                0            0             0                 0                0
I3S. VTC Nausheg, Fern.                                    3000,00        0                 0           0,0                        -                                      0               S
II1. VTC Seaghar                                           500.000000                         0            00                0            6             0                 0 
1 2. VTC Ahbbeuiahad                                      4,3o.00m                0                  4,3430,000              4        --  0             6                 0               g                    J
13. VT( GZ.,.ador                                          32000                                  - 32,000                   33           0                               0 
C4. F.ie. smIYrka                                                     -            003                                                                  0                 0               6
114. lWfC Mmltan400,0                                                             0                       000ooo             o            0             0                 o               o
I S WIT(' RaualPIndI                                      2,000,000               0                  20000                                0             0                 0               0O
16. WrrC lydetabed        -5500.0                                                                     000,000                41           0                      0                        0
17. NSTIrIslongabod                                           0                   0                      0                   41           0    ___                        0               0
33. WITC Que4lu                ~~~~~~~~~~~       ~      ~      ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~11,000,01  11 .000,003     0                      0                0
3,1 vrc ~~~~~~~'ehmrt                    __ ~~~~~~400.000           01                 4043.04310             4            0             0                 0
20. V1('s J.ruaw.ada T r Singh~                            30,0                                        00,9000               4            0               
23. med mi fin. rapped rn4rrs                      23,233.,000             60                 23,233.410               330                                          00
Cost of tAnd - Sub-4.4al:                                 554,973.000              0                55.973.000               4                          0                 0                9
(3.1) cing 4'.,m ~11onl.
cc uepp.ed to*" a I6
MAk eep.u.d 4Ow3io C4%
I. %_TC 33.nguA                          1341.9            9,35,3,674          3.414)0.000          20,15.".674              41          300       20.153.674         19,13,6.74       3,4000,90
2. %~TC Kerak                            17.5,92,00    _  17,213.341           3.270.022            243,4$M.943              0          100       N2,48i0,ftj         17,2118.34       3,276.622
3. 'VTC '..afgh (.rigInai & re-tender   24,33,945         33,099,66            5,000000O            23,099,660           2,930,340  - 49            I PI 3,933        8,8143,933       2,450400_f
4. VTC Okgers                            10,713.401   __17,120,016             3.37it914             3900004                              9         9,316,49W         3.019 91             3
5. V1CSlelkargww              3~~~~~~9,474.219    __20,5.5.6.69     cw44j10               27,000.000              43           4i         34".2so          11.672.793       3,1572137                   rbrt
6. VIC Kbalrpur               ~~~~~~23.07-5.570-  19._91'7.T79       6.1.2                  600.0                   14                      746,1000        _9.759,565       2.90043
7. VTC 33ev. Muted JainalI   ~15.75.0.760      12.6110.013         5-.339.917             1350000_                        _   100        10,500,000          iiso,i         s,a0g3
i VTC AIted,1.8200k.1.5                                                        7_5.0,00              9,430.450  _        50 I9,550       49         4,6454211          970,421         3.475,00
9.V'TCMNegaleerwFets.       - -          3740,6           3.3103,253           7.500.000            1130,23               ,093,-747      4-9        5434434,84                         3.4789
30. VT(c 34moIahr' ____                   6.0377            i6.0143            7.500,000            10.036.015    _      9.943.93        49         4,91 7, 447       3,42,441        347,0
II. '.T(' Abb.nab.d           3~~~~~7,630,235.  3 .504.000          9.50.000O             33.04=10100          4.0041.00       300       I 3.00.6110        n ai oelm f I   a-



twrp P..j.d maw. ig
1I. % TC (,iwidiar                     17,366.467       9.329,5211         14.4m30472           24.2666.000t           to          lOS      2.1260,000    __  .329.523       34.4.30.472
IS. 1:cosIe  I4jmln, or Ikhon-    1.1 .1                               .44.03115).03                                           9        750007300
34. wirr'" Nluukon                     13,970,104       4.6.9               703042.o.o                                              9         ,7160           2.333          33462
wr.'A  I c RwaIItI1.4.0)0.06,00                                                                601).WI3.06b,00                    49       2,4000               02.4006
16. Wi(ltIIv-deruh.d                   I 595).1 63      2.9.757544.93.         725                  1.2              0.106.27.9     49       4,047.92         332.2          365.
17. NS3I IIsmhu                        24.1122.517     in,7210.404343      20,77200 033)35603)6                                     49       14,00            5.2.56.720     16.17112116
33. PSIJIs of Pehwr Quoete. and Kntri                   9.000n.1m10                              .66.O6  a49                             44 3000              .4000              0
19. wrrc  'e.ho-.r(lank- or )m,.. bId1)           I 9.W01)000             Ii               19.00)0.00              0           49       9336.004         9.310,000          0
jO. kmas~tion to zimintI  etrnr  for
mefrades                                          5.0046.000              05,000.000                                          49       2,450,1000245.0                      0
~TC ~ebrI (osgInol ad rwaedwc   22.2314.42S   I3.323.075          5,676.925            2.0oO-           -      0    -     49       33.7401.00W       3.973.37       213.9-
%-T(,sJaron-walal/T*.baT ek4uS-Ingl  32,440.620   -21,326,911           7.500.000            29326,911            w 341.0911    49       34370.136        3,9,3            ,7.0
(ewl o rCuaerucihhm - Sub-total:       333,447.40f?    242.623.83J5        141,913.316          3314,537.651        75.032.916              243.130,794      1353235.273     04.30,52
13611. AN A.hedd by IDA (A71%
(2I.3.) FMrmi a" for ?u(T13 1113 (JA3B)_____                                                                                                                                 ___
1113- Punjab                                     -          0                O000_0.0                                               77        636,060             0            63600                  k
1163- SImdh                     300.000                0                 300,000              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s'O  77  61 6,0001  616,06            0
119 - Noalerlusfn                                       145770                                   1.24!,77               0 -- 77               959202           959202 
rrti- NWF?                   0                000,000               300,000              ~~          ~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 77  636,000    636.0W
I. VIC  long.                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~0 6,00,004            l,,08iomm           3.040.000)     77        770.6fte        __               7730400
2. vcrc mma_Tuk01.0.04                                                                           300064              300.)0         77        770,00       __  0               770,000
4. VW' NlMotrs    aI                                                         ,0.0                 .000060000                        7         770,63       __  0               770,04
4. VTC (Nine.                      0                1.000,000            3~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~.000,000  10000 77  770,00   __  0 ___          770.Sft
S. ''TC)6hlinrur                                        0               1,000,00      .000          00           3.000.000       77        770,0W             S __         770,000
6. ViC Khalrrur                   0                1,000,000            3.000.000 __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O   1.w6300.00  77  776,00       -      __         770.0640
7. vTc  eto.  Niuarad JA'uil                                0               1.000.000s 1.00.0                         .0,0           7        77,0                              7.
3.V(A-blctlabod                                         0-              3.000.00             i,m,m _              .00,0         77        770,4000            I            77$gM
9. 'eTC Nagaliera Fermee                     0               3,000,60~   ~      ~~0 1,000.000         3.000.0W       77 -      770,000       --  0              770.4040
I 0. WrC A6wark                                             0               6.".00000            3.000.000           1.000,000  --77          740t74e
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1_                                                                                                               7 7 0,0 0 007                     7 0 0
1I. %%eTlCGadr                                              0               3nn.00,0      000          003,,100Wi                  .771       770.000             I            770,000
1S. 'AI    ufa                                                               .0.0                   600030000                       77        770,40W                          770,0W
35.1N511 IgIm.bad                                                           I ,50,00        -- 3,00000               6.0.0_          7 7       ,550W03,500
36. 3z3.46ng W9TC Peabawar                                  0               I,0W,000             6,000,000           3.000),0W  _    77       770,0W              0            7710109                o 
"d SOL 8wh                 0                                                                       77   I.IK"s   0~~~~~~~~~~__                                          (
vrc veha.4                                               06                                                        .W06000
VrelC  Jramwuls I Tebs Tilk 30nglu-                                                                              4.9411.00        0           0                0
1Coa of ~l4utv- Sub-total:                              2.4,3                1100023,145.717                         24.000.000               17.321 179       I eO__-



MM  PrPJe flnte 11
(LI)  PIWI,Mh,.- -fen. ::."
ma Top Mlapmnd-tC Cemmu!an4a.
ICt 00%: ntA (h77%
PEPAC C.n-uliants fe" (Funding b2q   14,M41.0X2       21.195,446         3 ,000              24.195,446             0          77       9,932,261   _    ,300,555       1,551,712
conOetr eum of *r. 10.3lJ3,I3J)
TS Comsulws - NS'I ulljl -ng- _  _     s0o,oo-        ' 2,Sne-J FiO^o                         sso,n-ee~-            0 n        -   77    4233500          63.525        359.975
TS Cemu34s-NSi3 Building    _  550.000  32,500  -  461,504)            55~~~~~~6-so0,00                      __77 _________-"
TS  eisua-h  - PunJajb  _6_50,000-                                     - ~ 650.000t            6si0,00o   ____                          _ _  so,oon                      So __ 
TS Consults - ndh                     1,610,000        241,500            ,63,54s00           1,61 0,00             n          77        1,239.700        MM5,955       1,05,745
TS Co. mu!Z."tan  - NWt Fl'            425.0tv         63,750             343.393              40 6,943             0    _    100        40K,94           63,750        343.193
TS COFu"ts. RU lohuian                 4_03,762        192.4394           357.906              5.",000           n3                      5t50 3o 92.0194                 3S7,90
Ceot of PrnfcwuInil Fe, - Sb -otal:    111,479,11U    21.775,290         6,137,104           27,962394              0                   13,95 2,9s5      3,7            4,367,03
t3) T   u Ctiwr  ulgpm.-
(3 .)_uImn :had pr~Ie. ::O ._..-: 
centres 4 PTIo end NTDI/ATr etc., 
_ ____   =         _           _              JxJ,stso,oo e444.33,00                                                             444,0.000       444,to000o         _'0__
-uitpment rpv1ded In '94 tn NSI1                                                                   _                                                               __
uIJss 450,500) under liii                            13.500.0001                             1i3,5o,00             0           0        13,500,O0      13,5N00,00         0
._.                                                                                                         _   s  .......   __ . _ . ................. . . . . _ _ . _ _ _   _.L
onmputers for N_il and  I& F lnit_                    2913,570                                293,570              0 - -   -00          291,570          291,570           0
(uss 97i9) under LCR   
Nllillng n-rhlne *cceorleato Rn  eltg centre.  _     _-    _        _,4,7                                                     30 __487                  _,.87       -_
(V.lUe Iss 333i,299) under dirwt etracrtIng           5.64J.970                               5,6Jtt,970            n                    s,       ,64       tt__    S.____970  o
k3.2) Tealug  upseal under ICN
-NTII / NSTI   -    -     -      _    =      _            0_         -25000000o~             25.000.000~      _     0          300      25,00,0                         25,00,00
(3S) Taag qp t end I CB _#__                                                                                                         __ 
(OtIg_y taled i Uf  5          pqt ftn)   _________
3. VI(3 u (DOS)                                           n              4030016,000      -403000000                0        -io30      40*0                0           40,,
1. VTtC 3rck (DOS)                                                       40,t0.000e          40,30.000                        1i00     40,30                0          4     ,
3. VTC I'tluzaffargacla                                   0              2s,noo,000           25,000.000            0           300     2500,000             0          25,0 0
J. vrc ali,c-                                             0              25,00000            25,000,00              0          1oO      25,0,0                          2S,_0
*.  T1C 1;hm rpue                                   0~ _p Or             25,000,000           25,000,000            0          ioe      25,000               0'
7. *eTC D7. mmu-d Jn.m.il (DDS)                           0              40,3160,00            0O,W30,000           0          100      40Jo_                0          4      t
A.VTC S_lkrp                               - -             0             2s 000,0oo0          25,0(00.00            a          t o00    25,M00                          2S_   15,0
9. VT<C-c   dr C(DDs)                                     0              4011,300,KOO         40,3000o00            0           100     40,,0e o                        40J,_000
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ _ .     _   _ _
10. % CTTC llmk                                           0              25,000,0e0          25,000,000             0          300      2S1,00000            0           2 5, 0 
IIVTIC V33,_  __b--- 0                                         -       25ee,000,00          25,000,tt0 o           0 -          o0     25_,00,0            e   --_  5*0,00(A
VTC %,o  -h                                            0              25,000,0001         25,000.01011_          0          I0 _SAo.o                     5          210,000
'eTC. J-=mnml 11olmTAbTkSteqIu                                         000.0               000.0                 0          I"        000,0                           0,0,0
32. -NSfl bImbdfii 1roi,--                                                i500                 7,500.000            a          300      17.41ubm mae           



N'.'T  Pr.jnI I'ha. I1
(3.4) Op_rot   lmhI  II now                                                                                                              __.______
(LCD US$ 0 00lc",)                                     0              37,400,000            37,400.ooo0            o           0        37.4t000             0          34 -,t-
3.B  E4wlps    3WPIdE bS (fk3A                                                                                   ______                                          ___        __     __
at I*%  (Cs 24337,00,76.,.0J                                              e0                6.76,J01          _    e0         iso       40,76a3,64      60.763,04_          6
C.oo of hl_Oing .quIp.n.s  Sub-1mewl                    s111.033,55.l, 1        o,110            93,1333.54             a                   93s133,ss4       525s,3.5       46830,6
lst-o g--w I -O Kquipr.~ 10)-t-0% iS-2s57-  _0      0 Sj,eee,eoo       0       e                si,oee,etw   ~        0            too
Ameodowuut (5d94) hal U SI 0.276m                       J300,00               0                 3,300.100             o0          to0       3130,00          tt,30,60           0
Amendme,,ft (519)_  IJSS (0.1 44626M                        0               5s.0.t0,0            5,00,00                to         300       5,060.000           6            5,,06
Equipment mansemenl fe - Sub-loeel                     617.300.o0           5.060,001)           72,360.000             0                    72,0.           67               5.
22.135.422         19,003.30             32.178,723              )           e00-    32,170.723       22.135,422      10.043,301
- IijN3l'                                             1013,952 .5             o0                1011.952.567            0          t0o      16)3.952,567    10,52,567            S
(IDAv _ __   ___                     _    _    _   117.000.000          27,30,000              44,)                  n                    13411100001100 44,301,01 117,0,611  27.31,11 
Come of T.A. Induding Fellow,hlps - Sub -toal:         248,(07,"9          37,343,301           285,431.29e             0                    235.431329      24,117,         37,3,301
U) ~~~mMoa ~~~1I~~%                               t4P61.00*         _ ~~~~3.300.440
Ct.e of StudS.. Sub-4t.l                          2.057.44o           1,743,000             3,300.440              0                    3,,440           L*57.440        1.743._0
ift'  6 00          646I6                IMA    ...       :-                                         7:IU           MpU
Cot of RAW&l - Sub- t.dh             s       o o .0eo 9400o                                     0                 0                                                      ",GA0."W t7   1 ,46
(4) C.omathMe ftrukig remot..4u1, .parubam
(td klesXte_U   "omi                                 __tusIeo of                                ''ddIqI,,naI                         _
sta
NIB? NSTI                                                J 6.15.210         4,to,00e             9.153.230             - 0          37        3,336,714       2,276,714       1.110.101,
r x n - PunJ  ----,341414                                              3-5001,000           4.341,434              4)         37        1,791,323       4496,323         1,29540W
I'I'3 - Slndh                                           2.0)6.391           241061000            4.036.393              e           37        1,511,"3         771,193         740,110
1`I11 n  33gI.hl,6n                                     11,759.705          4.00o0.4)0           15.759,705             0           3i7   -  5,"33.6l         4,351,301      3i.4io,0W               -
Pill- N  Fr -3762                                                           4,soo,00             4.53.762               0           37        1,i93.232         33,212        1 A6.111
(6.2) (_eustouo6  _aloom*                                                                                                                                                                            4  ) 
NTO / NSTt                                             60,622,702          15,000,000            75,622,702             0           37       27,916,4t        22,430,466f     S.16101 1
P rIl - Punjmh_  _                             _   ~  20.235.731i-    ~        t ot,-ene 3.0000  -21-1.2JS,7 jl   -     0 _  _      37       301,447,220      7.467,220       2.96,6
rrn - Slndh                                             3I,13S,7116         5 4140.000           36.334.736             0           37        S,969,373       4,339,S73    -btt 
t-t itt t. . l._........6



Plt - NWFP                                         18336.703           7,00,6"0           25.336.70e            6           37      974,542         6,734,52       2,59.k6
NTI / NS-r                                          26.U*637            24.414160          23,310637             a           37 -      A5.3          7,72S5, 3       92S3,s
rin  - P_j.b                                        27.39.169               63439.169                           a           37      13.445,493      10,36.493      3.14568
PIis - Slndh                                         7.112.213          3,508.66           16.492.213            a           37       332.419        2,657.41i9      1t.29&
Pill - ll.lucImblu.                                 34.901.-124         3860660            42.601.424            0           37   __35.37.27         12.913.S27     2.9-66
rllR - NWz FP                                       163291             6,n06.00            22.796.36             *           37        .435.55       4a.5-   - 2.45.6_
C_d rf Inaf  _.lih .prlSuu um
m.Iu,eeu.urr md uubr4eg - Smb-*.t.I:                273,089.459         3    .              i.19.4"9              *                  13US.427.       101.017.23     34.4t0.66
(71) EqImmi  :pf.~.i~id.                                                                                                                            ,.'~  -
(I I.. r'. .. whh .dk.M  fur- 9    ~      - -l..    -                   3.5.0 -.5.6 6- ----                                           0,556.606 6,                   6._ 6.60
(7.2) Flusir Impedi_ I fuwrdlugchr   fur                                2.5_60 _. 0                               6          1_  _.5.6 _  _   _  _   _6                         W
* T-Cs  d NStI (3Or                                                     zju")  A -2
Cud ur# f uakIpu.1. o.dkUre - Sub blE:0                                          1  l 0  I0.0   In,.3nn           n          200      l6,36,66           6           16
GRMSS TOTASL                                       I.i3I.416.282       75S,747.221        2.224.163,0s5        9.632.9%             1.772,9 f3"     I .107.767.57    "5.355.254
3pm 4h6qur._ _ _                                                                                                                                   __ _. ___
.s1f. fro  wdtk  vh. V.IurI                                                                                                        ._________
Tua. Tul Sh0 Jm  Im_                                                                                                                     __         _
Pr.fmj..aI dc*ufm                                                          0                 229.133                         77        176.433         176.433    - 
*mwbrulu  cu (ou u.    53J.3 .91                  J9      2,.130,13       24,11 ,13          6
VmuIlmr (s.f                                                               0 ..              . ohlol                         77       4.620.066          0           *, 20,667
Truink, q    elf (u. *.'')             _6.    .                            e               75.60,W6                          300     75,006.066      73,6               e
FSTtIl A[Ii EDiN Al . T * r  I s                                       7115,747,221       2.0n.667.461        9s.032..6              3.167.639,776    1.66.466.9159   60A31.a 115 1D
v Ie
mill



VTCs TRAINING INTAKE & OUTPUT
OVER TIIE PERIOD 1989-95
PROVINCE                             ENROLMENT DAY/EVENING N        EO  SSION.I
1989  990 1                      193  1    1
PUNJAB                 6747        5871       5852       6854,      7476       7526      10353
SINDH                   1283'       539        869        852       1019       1117       2070
ON
NWFP                    12101      14401      1531       1428       2071       2184       22721
BALUCHISTAN              581        580        580        846       1011        763        830
FEDERAL                   928        98         98        160        134        138        119
TOTAL:-           9913        8528!    8930        10140      11711      11728      15644
( \I)A'l AVI H\1   1 )A IA\N91'15 \W K I



57                             Annex-IY
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING INTAKE
OVER 1990-95
Enrolment per Year
Provinces    1990 1 1991  1992[ 1993 [ 1994 | 1995   Remarks
Punjab          3368  5039  6564  5922   5491   6048
Sindh           1337  2678  2265  2057   2219   1535*
NWFP            720   768   775   849    744    945
Balochistan      63    93    93   198    187    153
Federal         136    44    60    34        40      28
Total       5624  8622  9757  9060  8681   8709
* Decreased due to privatisation scheme
and law and order situation.



58                                                                   Annex-V
Details of lncremental Staff to be
regularised durnng 1996-97
Peduuj       I"njb         sjb&        N.W.P.P.  Dalacigas          Ta
CO)MPONENTIrYPE OP STAFF                       sps DCA PifedDcA  Filw            C    PNd DA Pa DcArilia   DcA   illed DrA  FWdw
MANAGE&CENT AND WMLJD.(~AT1ON CELL 
Joint Director                                              19      0      0       I     I     0       0      I     I       I     1    3      3
Deputy Dirmctof                                             1I      I      I      I     0      1       1     I      I       1    1      s      4
AusioulntDsrector                                           17      I      I      2      2     2       2     I      1     2       I     I      7
Administrative Stuff                                       1        -     1      6       0      0       1      0      1 0  0           to     10
MONITORIG AND ErVALUATION UNIT
Dy. Dimecior Geners(20% BPS)                                is      I     0       0     0      0      0      I      1     0    0        2      1
Programnner                                                 17   I 0   0               0  0           0   1   0    0   02   0
Resarch EcoeomistlOfficer                                   17      1     0       I      1     1      0      1      I      I      1    5     3
Statistacs Oflicer                                          17      0     0       I      I     I       I     I      I      I      1    4       4
Data Entry Operstof                                         12      0     0       0     0      0      0      0     0       1      I     I      I
Adrttnistrst,u  Staff                                      1-16                                                            I      I     I      I
APPRJE2TiCESHIP TRAI4NIN
Director                                                    19      1     I       0     01   1        1      I      1      I      I    4       4
Depuft Director                                             is      I     I       6     61   2        2      I      1      1      I   II      I
Ass,sIaeTD,re2r~~~~~~~~~r                    17      I     I       0     01  10       t0      2     2       2     2    15 15
Admi-nistral,,r Staff                                      1-161                                                          II     II    II
N4STL'STI'sI
Chief Staff Trainer P,oerammcr                              19I   I        I      0     0      I       I1   I       I      I      1    4       4
SenIOT 5!2ff Tramncr Depuly Director                        Is      6     6       0     0      2      2      2     2       2     2    12      12.
Staff Trainr Auss DircctorChicf Drauehisman                 I?    14      7       0     0      4      4      7     7       4     4    29      22
Asst StAff TmancrTech Officer Cameraman]                    16    16      9                                                           16       9
Te-chnic ian
Adminislrailse itaff                                       1-16                                                                        0       0
TRADE TESTING BOARD
Depuf) D,recbor                                             Is      0     0       0     0      I       I     I      I      I      1    3       3
AssisuantDireior                                            17      0     0       0     0      I       2     2      2      2      2     5      6
Adrnin,sirati-: Suaff                                      1-16                                                            3      a     a 
EXISTING CENTRES
Chicf Instru:ior                                            1i      0     0       7      7I   0       0      0      0      3      3    10I   10
Senior Instructor                                           16      0     0      42      61   0        0     0      0      6      6    45     12
Itsvtnjztoes                                ~~~     ~~ ~~~~~~14  0  0  70    26  0     0      0     0      20    20    90      46
Admin,siran,c Staff                                        1-16                                                            14    14   14      14
NEW CINTRBS - MORNINGIEVEN4NG
Principal                                                   la      0     0       0      0     0       01   0       0      2    2     2        2
Chief Instruciors                                           17      0      0      0      0     0       01   0       0       2     2     2      2
Senior      ______nstr_______o___ 16 1 0                                  0      01   0       0       0     0      0       6     6     6       6
lnsimciors                                  ~~~~~~14  0     0      0     0      0      0      0     0     20    2)    20       20
Adminisirati          ________c__Staff___1-16    0                        0      0      0     0       0     0      0 1 52    52    32         32
WOMEN TRAINING & EMPNT             MNTESI
Chirefntoruc  T19                                                     I         0         0     0         0 02 0             0     0     10      I
SDeorIutyDrector                                            16      i      i      2I    I      I       I     I      I       I     1    50      9
AIsisinxliror                                               17      2      0      I0     9     3       31   2       2             2     51    19
Admninstrattsc Staff                                       1-16                                                                  is    is      Is
Total                                     49    31    157    64       43     38    39    32    2D9   Mg  497         37



CURRELNT SCIIEDULE OF
INSTRUCTOR-TRAINEE RATIO
Province   j         1993              I          1994                        1995
Enrolled  tNo. of     Ratio  Enrolled   No. of    Ratio  Enrolled   No. of     Ratio      Remarks
{Trainees  Instructors      iTrainees  Instructors       Trainees  Instructors                  --
Punjab              7476      1029  1:7.26      7526       1029  1:7.32     10353      1252  1:8.27  Improved
Sindh               1019       1661 1:6.1        1117       152  1:7.35      2070       152 1:13.62 Improved
NWFP                2071       302  1:6.86      2184        339  1:6.44      2272       339  1:6.7  Static
BaluchisLan         1011       252   1:4         763        252   1:3         830       216  1:3.85 Slightly improved
Federal       !      134i       19  1:7.05       1381        18  1:7.66       119         18  1:6.6  Erratic
U N IDAI  'IN'1RAINI I WVK1



60                                  Annex-VII
Pg 1
Annex-VII
Pg 1
STATUS OF WOMEN TRAINING COMPONENT
1)   12 staff members have been sent  to Canada for management
level training and skill up-grading from, WTTC's Quetta,
Peshawar,Rawalpindi Karachi and WTEC's, Quetta, Peshawar,
Karachi , Lahore.
2)   2 staff members of WTEC's Lahore have been sent to Canada for
3 months management level training.
3)   7 staff members of WTTC's, Quetta, Peshawar and WTEC Karachi
have been sent to attend the workshops on distance education
at Bangkok.
4)   3 Directors for PTBs Quetta,Karachi and Peshawar have been
sent to Canada for Study Tour.
5)   3 trades at each WTTC's Quetta and Peshawar have been started
and new trades are scheduled to be started in coming months.
6)   Equipment has been provided to WTEU, WTEC's ,WTTCs, Quetta,
Peshawar, TTC. Multan, NSTI and WTEC's Karachi, Quetta, Lahore
and Peshawar.
7)   9 workshops have been conducted which were attended by more
than 500 participants all over the country to motivate female
towards technical training and employment.
8)   Programmes have been launched on Radio Pakistan to motivate
females towards technical training and employment.
9)   CMC,s have been established at WTTC,  Karachi,  Quetta and
Peshawar and they are actively involved in the activities of
female training and employment as per their schedule.
10) The recruitment of female staff have been made in WTTC's and
WTEC's and WTEU against positions available in the project.
11) Monitoring and evaluation workshop has been conducted at
Bhurbon to set the indicators to Monitor and evaluation the
Project.
12) Steering and Project Review Committees have been established
and meetings conducted to review the project activities.



61                                Annex-VI I
Pg_ -2
13)  9 Skill Standards have been developed in English and Urdu for
the trades being offered in WTTC's.
14)  WTTC Multan has been started in a rented building and WTTC's
Hyderabad and Rawalpindi will be started in rented building in
coming months.
15) Terms of Reference of the study on women employment
opportunities has been prepared.
16) Management Plan by CIDA has been finalized
17) Terms of Reference for the Base Line Study, Curriculum and
Instructional Design Material, Media Promotion Specialist,
Beauty Culture, National Policy Coordinator for Women
Employment and Training have been prepared and finalized. They
are scheduled to start their work in coming months.
18) CIDA has provided cooperant up to 1994 and recruited CEA who
is in place since January,1995.
19) The CEA has provided two advisors at WTTC's Quetta and
Peshawar and one at WTEU, Islamabad. Advisor for employment
activities will be provided as soon as possible.
20) Video documentary has been prepared about the activities of
WTTC's and WTEc's.
21) 80% of the staff of WTEC, WTEC's have been locally trained in
their relevant fields.
22) Recruitment Rules of women component at WTEU have been
finalized to make provision for the appointment of women in
recruiment policy of NTB.
23) Action Plans of WTEU, WTTC's Quetta, Peshawar and Karachi and
WTEC's Quetta, Peshawar Karachi and Lahore have been prepared
with the assistance of Canadian Advisors.



62                                          Appendix-B
Pg 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMIPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Appendix-B: Borrower's Comments and Contribution
a)             Adeauacv and accuracv of the factual informnation contained in Part-M of the PCR
The facts and information contained in the Implementation Completion Report are reasonably well documented.
Observations in the ICR have been mutually shared during various supervision missions which supervised the project on regular
basis.
b)             Comments on the analysis contained in Part-I of the PCR.
The project has been adequately analysed. It has been rightly pointed out that the project design was over
ambitious, under estimating the constraint of the public sector institutions and difficulties in diversification. The Training Boards
could not play an effective role for the reason that these Boards have no resources to finance vocational training programme and
dictate and implement changes in the National Vocational Training System to make it demand driven. The support to Informal
Sector through "Mobile Training" originally conceived and appraised was not available from the donors. It was opined by the
donor (EEC) that this may not form part of this project. Spade work was therefore undertaken during the currencv of the project
to look for other altematives viz: community based training etc. The importance was. however, never dropped from the sight.
The training legislations are in final stages of introduction.
ICR rightly assess that the objectives of the project have satisfactory been achieved since restructuring. The
government strongly feels to support the assessment of the Bank that little more time should have been given to the project, to
enable to achieve the structural change in the system in the area of public-private partnership, de-centralization. instituting cost
reco-ery system introduction of market oriented short course and making the role of public sector institutions more effective
through employers participation. It is, however, to be underlined that structural changes cannot be brought in the public sector
institutions without adequate changes in the old age financial management system.This should have been given more closer
attention during the design and appraisal stage of the project.
The concem of the Bank on allocation of O&M funds (recurring expenditure) and appointment of staff by the
provinces to man the new centres is shared as also the shift from supply driven system to demand driven system. Full benefits
of the re-structure project can only be achieved if sufficient time is allowed for the restructured component to develop institutional
strength and the follow-up action and monitoring is continued after the project completion by the Provincial Training Boards and
National Training Board.
While there may be a number of reasons for the imbalances that exist between the skills, required and the
supply, the main problem is the non-availability of detailed information regarding sector/occupation/trade wise needs over a period
of time and the capability of the industrylprivate sector to meet these needs. The project has started playing catalytic role through
mainlv the SDCs and if the activities continued and scope extended may result in bridging the gap and bringing change in training
culture.
c)              Evaluate the Bank's performance durine the evolution and implementation of the proiect, with special
emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant for the future.
This project was a complex one, having multi donor financing and spread over whole of the country. While the
Bank has been guiding and supporting the project yet the bank procedures to get approval with regard to works and equipment
procurement at 4-5 different stages created a lot of extra work and resulted in delays specially in the projects of this nature where
the four provincial governments and their departments are involved. It could be considered to reduce the stages with out harming
the policy and contiol mechanism. The designation of Task Manager sitting at Islamabad facilitated decision making and must
continue.



63                                                 Appendix-B
Pg 2
Creation of project assignment account and efficient handling of withdrawal applications by the World Bank
Disbursement Division facilitated financial management.
The original project was too ambitious. While the decision to restructure the whole project (in 1993) helped to
address to more crucial issues. it resulted in delay in the project implementation. It would have been advisable to have stopped
and completed the already under implementation components and designed a fresh project with new approaches and targets.
d)              Evaluate the Borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the pro*ect, with
special emphasis on lessons learned that mnay be relevant for the future.
This has been a multi donor project but with more dominant role of World Bank both from funding and
monitoring point of view. Although the project implementation was initiated in 1986-87 yet major restructuring of the project as
well as introduction of new concepts was undertaken during 1992-93. During this process the physical implementation on
components except Civil Works of those centres which were under way, were deferred. The project had, therefore, a new design
and was re-initiated during 1993-94. This not only meant replanning/re-phasing the whole schedule of activities but also
warranted new adjustment in financial planning.
The concepts introduced in the restructured project proved worth trying. These were steps in right direction
specially in the following areas:-
(i)     Partnership with Employers. The piloting of Skill Development Councils proved a right experiment although
a number of difficulties were encountered at initial stages of its establishment and resource channelization. The
concept of Centre Management Committees was well accepted by the employers but the objective could not be
fully achieved because of government procedure and inflexibilities in the system.
(ii)    Training content/flexibilitv in trainine delivery. Designing of a comprehensive Broad Base Curricula was very
well undertaken and pilot tested. It is recommended that it should be introduced in the centres in a phased
manner. For this purpose training of instructors and managers of the institutions is required to be undertaken
on regular basis. The urgency of making the training flexible and broad based and receptive to the market needs
have to be accepted by the respective training administrators.
iiib  Introduction of social study (PoDulation Education) in the Vocational Training Centres. Although there was little
investment from UNDP for this activity but this component has been implemented very effectively. 20 Master trainers
and 300 instructors have been trained and software developed. It is required that the implementation be closely
monitored.
IV)    Management Information Svstem. The system has been made in place. Necessary instruments have been
developed. It is emphasised that the DMTs should gear up the monitoring units to undertake the exercises of
data collection on continuous basis, process the data and guide the PTBs and NTB to improve upon the
effectiveness of training programmes. Annual Monitoring Reports have started pouring-in from PTBs. Studies
on external efficiency have also been initiated by the PTBs which if continued on regular basis will help in
assessing the relevance.
(v)     Staff Training. The NSTI and four PSTIs have been established under the project. The project provided
assistance not only for the establishment of the PSTIs but also trained master trainers. The details are as under:-
NSTI ISLAMABAD.
-       Long duration 6 months skill upgrading
courses.                                                        811
-       Short duration courses                                          606
Total:                  1417
For the future it is recommended that the government should allocate adequate resources to continue with the
staff training programmes. For the NSTI and PSTIs it is recommended that they should take stock of the staff
in position, and staff training needs of not only the DMTs but also other departments and training managers of



64                                         Appendix-B
Pg 3
industrv and prepare long terms plan of 3-4 years for training instructors and other staff.
(vit    Civil Work administration. After restructuring of the project, the transferring of the civil works administration
to the provincial governments has proved to be very successful and therefore, it is strongly recommended that
the federal govemment should not in future engage itself in actual execution of civil work. This should be left
to the specialized agency like C&W departments and the provincial govermnents etc.
The latest progess on Civil Works is as follows:
Percentage Comolete
Puniab
i)     VTC Okara                       100%
ii)    VTC Muzaffargarh                90%
iii)   VTC Attock                      98%
iv)    VTC Vehari                     100% } Excluded
v)     VTC Jaranwala                   72%   from IDA
vi)    VTC Toba Tek Singh              75% } financing.
vii)    WTTC Multan                    100%
viii) WTTC Rawalpindi                       92%
Sindh
i)     VTC Khairpur                    95%
ii)    VTC Shikarpur                   100%
iii)    VTC Sanghar                    86%
iv)    VTC Naushero Feroze             92%
v)     WTTC Hyderabad                  100%
NWFP
jO     VTC Karak                       100%
ii)    VTC Hangu                       100%
iii)    VTC Abbottabad                 96%
iv)    WTTC Peshawar                   100%
Baluchistan
ii     VTC Dera Murad Jarnali          100%
ii)     VTC Gawadar                    100%
iii)   WTTC Quetta                     100%
Federal
iO     NSTI.lslamabad                  100%
(vii)  Equipment procurement. The equipment was procured through ICB procedure and guidelines and the arrangement with
-ILO Equipro has generally worked well. There had been no complaints on the quality and quantity of the equipment
provided through ICB. Problems were, however, faced with few local suppliers/manufacturers who participated in the
ICB. This indicates that the local manufacturers need orientation on the ICB processes and requisite quality control
aspects.
Equipment for existing centres has already been installed and is operational. The equipment procured for the
new centres for VTCs in NWFP and Baluchsitan (funded by CEC) have reached the centres while the equipment
for the rest of the centres (funded by IDA) is under custom clearance.
(viii) Quality Factor. The lesson learnt indicate that efforts should be made to cornsolidate the training programmes in the
existing centres, upgrade them if required, provide with staff training support and curricula. The employment of the
passed out are to be closely monitored to asses the employability rates and relevance of the training courses being
offered. As far as possible the partnership with employers be encouraged, promoted and training made demand oriented.



65                                               Append ix-B
Pg 4
This will require major change in the policy, administrative and financial procedures for operation of the existing training
cenmres
As for as possible establishment of new centres should be discouraged and if these are required to be
established, should be modest with greater participation of community in administration of the centres and cost
recovern be ensured.
(ix)    Apprenticeship Trainint/on-job training: should be the main focus in future vocational training programmes.
It is considered that on-job training capacity could be generated provided a proper scheme is designed. The
imponant aspect, however, is to change the approaches and system through which the Apprenticeship
Directorate of the DMTs operate at the present.
(x)     Trade Testing and Certification. Through this project Testing Boards have been established in the DMTs. It is,
however, required that these boards should be made effective. "Trade Test Banks" be developed and the flexible
system of trade testing including 'vocational qualification system " introduced.
(XI)    Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance provided through UNDP/ILO project PAK 86/017 under NVTP-11 has been successfully
implemented during the project period. In view of the need and importance, the Government and World Bank
agreed to allocate 1.158 Million US$ out of credit towards technical assistance.
Technical assistance was also provided by FRG and CIDA. Donor wise position of utilization by mm is as
follows:-
Fellowships        International Experts            Consultants
Donor               Utilized                 (MM)                        (MM)
(MM)
Expatriate         Local
UNDP                        97                      144                  25.5            108.5
FRG                         I l                     191                    -               -
CIDA                        141                     164                   07               -
IDA'World                   21                      41                     -             57.5
Ban),
Total                       270                     540                  32.5             166
e.              Assess the effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during the evolution and
implementation of the project.
The relationship had generally been cordial. The exchange of information and decision making was facilitated
throueh the local Task Manager and Disbursement Division. The recommendations of the various missions were well received,
however. the implementation of the recommendation depended on the procedures through which federal and provincial government
departments had to pass. While the private sector was more inclined towards bringing flexibility in the training administration,
the recommendation of the missions in this regard were difficult to implement within the frame work of existing government rules
and financial regulations.
In order to make the relationship more effective it is recommended that the respective participants, provincial
govemments, the beneficiaries and the officials of ftnance and planning be actively involved, especially when structural changes
are suggested, during the design of the project and no such approach included in project design which is not implementable at
later stage due to procedure difficulties.
f.              Evaluate the performance of co-financiers, and assess the effectiveness of their relationship with the
Borrower during the evolution and implenientation of the project.
It has been a multi donor project and was initiated enthusiastically by all donors. One of the reason for the
donors attitude to prefer bilateral approaches was the initial delay at start up stage of the project during 1986-87 to 1989-90. It



Appendix-B
66                                               Pg 5
may be due Io the reason that the resources earmarked by each donor were for inter-related activities. The delay in one component
like construction of centres and recruitment of staff etc resulted in delay in deliverv of inputs by the other donors. Nevertheless
the donor remained associated with the respective component of project and the desired benefits derived. The bottom line,
however. is that the relationship between the co-financiers or and the Bank be given more attention.
The IDA financing has not been extended further, vet. the other co-financiers viz: CIDA. EEC and FRG are
still providing their inputs/assistance.
FINANCIAL
While the project activities are still continuing the position of investment by the terminal date of credit are
contained in the following table:
(Million)
On IDA Credit/
terminal date
IDA Credit                                            SDR    27.939
GOP financing                                         Rs. 864.225
EEC Grant                                             ECU  5.434
FRG Grant                                             DM   5.670
UNDP Grant                                            US$  3.543
CIDA Grant                                            CDS  7.400



67                                                Appendix-C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Appendix-C: Co-Financiers Contribution to the ICR
No contribution was received from co-financiers. Only EC provided commenis. which have been accommodated in the
text.



68
Appendix-D
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                                             Pg 1
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINLNG PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Appendix-D: Features of National Training Policy
FEATURES OF THE NATIONAL TRAUfING POLICY
A competent and flexible work force, which can acquire new skills, as economies change, is a necessary pre-requisite for
economic and social development. Society benefits in the form of high productivity and individuals benefit through higher
earnings and mobility in seeking better employment opportunities. Adequately trained skilled workers and technicians improve
the quality ol' production and maintenance, facilitate the adaptation and use of new technologies and training of co-workers with
lesser skills.
Basic skills can be learnt in formal training institutions while middle and high level skills are acquired through experience
and training during employment. In Pakistan. basic skills are provided by the training institutions of Directorates of Manpower
and Training, Directorates of Technical Education, and institutions administered by Overseas Pakistanis Foundation, Small
Industries Corporations/Boards, Departments of Social Welfare and other agencies. Due to involvement of many organizations
and departments the training standards for even the same type of programme are not uniform. On the other hand the institutional
training, except for few programmes'institutions. are not responsive to the changing needs of employment market.
Traininp is also being provided within the traditional/informal Ustad-Shagird system but it requires attention and suitable
assistance. In addition, training is being imparted under the Apprenticeship Training Ordinance of 1962. The output through
this training system has, however, been low and the situation calls for amendment in the ordinance to make it more viable,
practical and acceptable to the employers.
This Policy has been framed to streanmline, expand and standardize the training activities in the country so that the skilled
sxorkers are made available not only in adequate numbers but also with the requisite skills.
The aims and objectives of ihis training policy are to:
Improve the qualit\ and enhance the number of skilied workers being trained in the formal sector.
in )   Improve, standardize and  enhance  the quality  and  numbers of workers being  trained  under the
Apprenticeship,On-the-job training.
iii)    Streamline and standardize training in private training institutions.
is )    Streamline and standardize training in the informal sector and enhance training opportunities through mobile
training units and other training delivery systems.
Provide and enhance training facilities for women in non-traditional trades.
xi)     Enhance the participation of private sector in training activities through, interalia, Skill Development Councils.
vii)    Provide training facilities for instructional staff'.
viii)    Establish Data Banks of skilled workers.
ix)     Register skilled workers both public and private.
x)      Study and propose changes in the existing training legislations.



69
Appendix-D
The Naiional Training Polic% has the followine chapters:
I       National Training Board Functions
11      Forma) Training
III     Apprenticeship,!On-job Training
IV      Training in Private Sector/Participation of Private Sector in Training
V       Informal Training
VI      Women Training
VIl    Training bv Non-Government Organizations (NGOs)
Vill    Staff Training
IX      Research Activities
X       Registration of Skilled Workers



70
Appendix-E
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Appendix-E: Draft Amendments in NTB Legislation
DRAFT AMENDMfENTS
IN NTB LEGISLATION
National Training Board was constituted vide National Training Ordinance No. IX of 1980 to systematize, promote and
reeulate vocational training in the country. It comprises of 39 members, with the Minister for Labour, Manpower and
Overseas Pakistanis as its Chairman anid having 4 representatives each from Employers Federations, Workers Unions
and 30 Government representatives. Since 1980 the needs as well as approaches towards vocational training have
changed. The proposed amendments have been carried out for the reasons that:
-      The Board comprises of 39 members which is not only unwieldy but also has only 8 non-official members. The
employers and trade unions have been voicing their concern to increase their membership. Through the
proposed amendment the membership of those Departments who could effectively be represented by the other
organizations  would  be  cunailed  and  participation  of  the  private  sector  especially  women
representation/participation will be increased. The new membership will be 23 members with 10 representatives
of Employers and trade Unions. This will make the National Training Board more effective.
-      Moreover, the National Training Board/Provincial Training Boards will be given the authority of registration
and licensine of all establishments, organizations or institutions which are providing vocational or technical
training. They will also be authorized to register skilled workers according to the trade and level of skill and
will facilitate trade testing and certification of skilled workers who may have received training through any other
source or acquired skills through experience from the informal sector.
The amendments including the bill have been approved by the Cabinet in the meeting held on 10th Oct, 1996. The bill
will be submitted to the Cabinet of the present Government for approval to process the bill or promulgate the ordinance.



7 1                                               Appendix-F
IMPLEMENTATION CONMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINDNG PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Appendix-F: Draft Amendments in Apprenticeship Legislation
DRAFT ANMENDMIENTS
IN APPRENTICESHIP LEGISLATION
The Apprenticeship Ordinance 1962 was promulgated by the Federal Government in June 1962 with the objective of
promotion. developing and regulating systematic apprenticeship programmes in the industries, and for securing certain
minimum standards of skills. The Ordinance is applicable to the industrial establishments employing fifty or more
persons and having five workers in any specific apprenticeable trade. Such establishments are required to train
apprentices in the proponion of minimum of 20 per cent of the total number of skilled workers employed in an
apprenticeable trade. The Provincial Labour Departments supervise the implementation of various provisions of the
Ordinance.
The amendments aim to expand apprenticeship training by:
-      Widening the definition of employers to whom its provisions apply.
-       Allow%in  employers to freely chose whether to train apprentices or not, but imposing a training levy on
employers uho do not train apprentices so as to equitably share the cost of training between employers.
Providing financial incentives to be paid to certain employers (those who have less than fifty workers and are,
therefore, not covered under the Ordinance, but have the capacity to train workers), in order to encourage them
to arrange apprentice training.
The amendments including the bill have been approved by the Cabinet in the meeting held on 10th Oct, 1996. The bill
will be submitted to the Cabinet of the present Government for approval to process the bill or promulgate the ordinance.



72                                                                     Appendix-.-a
Pg 1
INIPLEMEN'ATION CONIPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINBTG PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Appendix-G-a: Fellowships
FELLOWSHIPS IMPLEMENTED UNDER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME OF
NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT, PHASE-II
FUNDED BY UNDP
COURSE TITLE                        |          INSTITUTION              [       DURATION                       NAMES OF FELLOWS
I )        Equipment Procurement                        ILO EQUIPRO. Switzerland               6.9.S7 - 27.0.87 0 
2)          Mdonaecment of Vocational                    ILO Turin. Italy                       7 5.90- 29 6.90                             2
3)          Trasming Instiutlions.j
4)          \liji,rg, thc Traioiiii                      U.K. Industrial Training              3 9 90 - 27  1I 90                           2
5 1         Function                                     Services
6)          MeJia Development& Production                ILO Turin. Italy                       1.3.91 - 30 4 91
71          Curriculum Dcvclopmeni.                      U.K. Huddersfield Polytechnic         19 9.91 - 183 92                             6
xi          Sk,l1, Testine
9)
11)1
12)
131        u elder Trai,iine                             Murex. U.K                               4/92 - 7/92
14,         M'A,vr,i & Evaluatiion                       Ireland FAS ILTS. UK'INEWI              I0192 - 12192                              8
1IS
16,
17)
19'
2)o,
-            i) i         Pol,c\                         IreKand FASiosLTS. UKl NEWI          82 92 - 10 92
333   ',miula     TraiEmnme Systern
24,
25
26,
27)
Stud% T.r
30).        Trjimne Design & Delivery                    U.K. vafious institutions              23.9.91 - 5.10.91
31l                                                      Manpo-wer Services Commnission
32,                                                      Scorvee. Employers Federation
33,
34,
35,
36'
37,         Nice: senior World Bank Olficials            World Bank HQ, Washington              24.9.92 - 2939 92                            2
4  7,)  Trainine Instituttotis
38i         Apprenhiccship/ln-PlantTraining              Australia various insfiursons             6192 - 7~92                               9
39)
40))
41))
42i
43)
44)
46)         Social Study & Population Wejlfare           Cairo, Egypt                          23.11.95 - 30.11.95 
47,                                                      various instiuitionsa



Appendix-G-a
Pg 2
73
Appendix-G-a
Page 2 of 2
FELLOWSHIPS INMPLEMENTED UNDER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME OF
NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT, PHASE-Il
FUNDED BY IDA CREDIT
COLIRSE TITLE                                   INSTITUTION        |       DURATION           |        NAMES OF FELLOWS
4-          Stud! To,ur (Group Ii                                     TAFE. Australia             15-31 March96
OrhiCsli IUIIiharizatwn is iththe institutional and
apprenticeship irdining programmes. training
mlaagerlient and poulcN formulation. assessment of
- iccLds. tinancing ol progranime les) grant system.
cmplnsnent stratcres.
.        Protect  Minaoenrne                                       AIT Bangkok.              29 Apr - 07 June 96
Thal land
Prfoeur M ... oring & Evaluato..                         AIT Bangkok                10 June-05 Julv 96
ThfllanJ
_          S      'Sud,  our on Apprenticeship Tranino              NManila Philppines            10-21 June 96
h           Irrl.graig Ciimuniui-basd Traino into National
Trait, iii Ss,tcnl A RetLonal Pohl  Scminar                 ILO Turin. Ilahi       27 Mav  O' June 96
-           Tih. ItT Frti,c & Manarcnmeo of Vocational Trainine              - do -             23 Scpt - 8 Oct 96
-           Lait.ur .Iarkei Inlormation Systems for Humai                    - do -             18 Non  - 06 Dec 96                        2
Rc>-urLe'



Appendix-G-b
74
INIPLENIEN'TATION COMIPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECON'D VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Appendix-G-b: Consultancies
LIST OF CONSULTANTS
TA FUNDED BY UND?
Intemational Experts/Consultants                   Dates of assignment                  MM
Post 11.01 - Chief Technical Adviser:
01.07.87-06.0887                     1 mm
03.01.88-10.02.94                   73 mm
Post II .02 - Training Media Development:
22.05.89-06.07.89;                  1.5 mm
05.02.90-19.06.90                   4.5 mm
Post 11.03 - Assessment and Testing:
01.04.87-31.12.88                   20 mm
01.03.94-30.06.94                    4 mm
Post 11.05 - Monitoring and Evaluation:
15.06.91-14.09.91                   3 mm
01.03.94-31.05.94                    3 mm
Post 11.06 - In-Plant Training Development:
27.07.89-15.05.90                   10 mm
Post 11.07 - Radio and Television:
06.11.91-05.11.92                   12 mm
Post 11.08 - Consultants:
01.06.89-30.06.89                    1 mm
31.07.90-30.08.90                    1 mm
19.09.91-06.12.91                    3 mm
15.11.90-14.02.91;                   3 mm
03.04.91-19.07.91                    3.5 nm
19.03.91-04.06.91;                   2.5 mm
09.11.91-10.12.91                    I mm
14.03.92-10.04.92;                   1 mm
22.02.93-21.05.93                    3 mm
05.04.94-19.09.94;                  5.5 mm
16-01-95-15-02-95                    1 mm
Post 11.09 - Architect/Deputy CTA:
31.08.92-30.08.93                   12 mm
National Consultants/Extemal Collaborators
17.01 Curriculum Development:
01.01.88-31.12.88                   12 mm
22.06.94-31.12.94                    6 mm



75
Appendix-G-b
Page 2
17.02  Assessment and Testing:
17.03  Civil Works:
01.04.87-31.12.88;                    20 mm
01.01.92-30.06.92                      6 mm
17.04   Vocational and Apprenticeship Training:
12 mm
17.05  Technical Translator:
01.07.87-31.12.87                      6 mm
17.06  Consultants/External Collaborators:
I mm
9 mm
I mm
.5 mm
6 mnm
3 mm
3 mm
3 mm
2 mm
2 mm
2 mm
2 mm
2 mm
2 mm
t mm
2 mm
4 mm
Administrative Support Staff   7



76
Appendix-G-b
Page 3
LIST OF CONSULTANTS
TA FUNDED BY IDA CREDIT
International Experts/Consultants             Dates of assignment            MM
Post 11.01 - Chief Technical Adviser
16.07.94-30.06.96             23 mm
Post 11.02 - Project Architect/Engineering
16.07.94-31.12.95             18 mm
17.06 Consultants/External Collaborators:
2 5 mm
4 rnm
15 mm
14 mm
13 mm
7 mm
2 mm
Administrative Support Staff   5



7 7                                             Appendix-H
Pg 1
INIPLENIENTATION CONIPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1670-PK
Appendix-H: Features of New Curricula
SPECIAL FEATURES OF THE BROAD-BASED
MULTI-SKILLS TRAINING PROGRAMME
1.      Under the National Vocational Training Project Phase-I1, a "Training Needs Survey" was financed by the UNDP and
was carried out by ILO international consultants in 1990-91. TNS identified a programme of initial broad-based core
skills training followed by a specific, higher level skills training, as the most appropriate means of meeting the needs
of the local labour market and private industry sector, including high potential for self-employment.
2.      TNS identified the main skill areas in demand are in electrical/electronics, automotive, metal machining/metal fabrication
and refrigeration/air conditioning.
3.      Emphasis in the programme is on core knowledge and skills (basic concepts and manual skills) across the range of the
four above mentioned skill areas, taught cohesively to produce a basic "multi-skilled" worker capable of working
independently. Further on-the-job exercise and off-the-job training will enable participants to improve their skill levels
as the need arises.
4.      With high likelihood of self-employment post-training destination, the programme includes rudimentary training in the
establishment and operation of small business.
5.      The programme is of two stages of six months each, with flexible entry and exit, and the curriculum is of modular
format. The curriculum has a strong practical orientation with the aim of quickly developing useable (employable) skills.
6.      The training objectives for Stage One are that. on completion of training, trainees should be able to:
*      identify and utilize common hand tools used in the occupational areas of machining, fabrication (that is fitting,
welding, and sheetmetal), electrical, electronics and automotive.
*      identify and use common measuring and marking tools.
*      know about important properties of materials generally used and be able to identify them.
*      read simple workshop drawings.
*      perform simple machining and fabrication operations according to given drawings by using common tools and
equipment.
*      service basic electrical and electronic appliances.
*      install basic domestic electrical wiring according to given requirements.
*      carry out basic servicing of motorcycles and motor vehicles.
8.      After successful completion of this initial basic training, trainees may:
i)     join the labour market as semi-skilled workers (including self-employment),
ii)    continue training on-the-job through Ustad/Shagird,
iii)    continue training through formal apprenticeship,



78                                              Appendix-H
Pg 2
iv)     continue formal training in Stage Two (immediately or at a later time).
9.      In subsequent stages participants will develop higher level and more specialised skills. In Stage Two they will develop
additional skills in specific skill areas of their choosing, subject to certain prerequisites based on achievement of the
relevant skills in stage one.
10.     Participants will be able to either progress directly from stage to stage, or exit at the end of a stage with scope for re-
entrv to the next stage at a later time.
II.     Flexibility in programme entry and exit will be enhanced by procedures to enable trainees who do not successfully
complete an earlier stage to enter the subsequent stage after a period of relevant work experience if they meet certain
other criteria. This will reduce wastage of the resources already invested in these trainees in the earlier stage(s).
12.     The client groups for initial entry to the programme are school leavers, rural out-of-school youth and unemployed adults.
The catchment areas for programme participants will include many remote villages and the education levels of
participants will be variable, but with grade 8 as the most likely.
13.     Prerequisites for entry to the programme are:
*       minimum age of 15 years,
       minimum grade 8 education,
*       sufficient literacy in english and Urdu to read and understand technical instructions,
*      basic numeracy to interpret technical data and perform basic technical computations, and
3       absence of colour blindness (because of the proposed electrical and electronic components of the programme)
however, where there is an unfilled place in the programme, a person not meeting this prerequisite may
be permitted to enter the programme to undertake the non-electrical and non-electronic skill areas.
14.     The expected post-programme destinations from the programme are semi-skilled employment (including Ustad/Shagird)
or self-employment in the informal sector, carrying out varied, but basic, activities (repair/service/installation) across
the metals, automotive and electrical areas.






IMAGING
Report No            16754
Type .-    ICR



