Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA~ {G>DA'@
Report No. 5728-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
February 19, 1986
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$ 1.00 = Rs 16.37
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.06
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SCHGC- YEAR
March - February
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ATC     -   Apprenticeship Training Center
ARTEP   -   Asia Region Training and Employment Program (ILO)
CID&    -   Canadian Agency for International Development
CDWP    -   Central Development Working Party
ECEEC   -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EEC     -   European Economic Community
EQUIPRO -   Equipment Procurement Branch (ILO)
FRG     -  Federal Republic of Germany
GVI     -   Goverxment Vocational Institute
ILO     -   International Labor Organization
MnE    -   Ministry of Education
MOLM    -  Ministry of Labor, Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis
NTB         National Training Board
NVTS    -   National Vocational Training System
NTDI   -   National Training Development Institute
NW"P    -   Northwest Frontier Province
PC-I    -   Planning Commission Form I   -
PCR     -   Project Completion Report
PTB     -   Provincial Training Board
PDWP    -   Provincial Development Working Party
PPAR    -  Project Performance Audit Report
SFYP    -   Sixth Five Year Plan (1983-88)
TTC     -   Technical Training Center
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program



-:L-                FOr OMCIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents                       Pate No.
BASIC DAIA
CREDIT AID PROJECT SUHEAR
I.  VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN PAKISTAN ..... ..............         .....    I
A.  Nanpower, Employment and Training 1       .............      . 
B.  Problems and Issues in Vocational Traiuing ..............    5
C.  Govermient Policies and Programs in Vocational Training..    7
D.  External Financing of Vocational Training          ..             8
E.  Bank Role and Experience in Education and Training.               9
II.  TEE PROJECT .................................................   11
A.  Goals and Objectives ....       ................................   11
B.  Vocational Training (Existing Centers)    ..................      12
C.  Vocational Training (New Centers) ................ .. ......   13
D. Apprenticeship Training .         . ..........................-...  14
K.  Instructor Training ............ .            .     .    ...     14
F.  Women's Training          ......................                 15
G.  Management and Implementation         ...........................   15
H.  Studies ..................... .............................   16
I.  Technical Assistance Summary .       ...........................   16
II.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. IAON AND
DISBURSEMENTS    .............................................   17
A.  Project Costs ..............................................   17
B.  Financing Plan .      .........................................   19
C.  Recurrent Expenditure ............... . ....................   20
D.  Status of Preparation ..........       .........................   21
E.  Implementation ................................................   22
F.  Procurement .............................................   22
G.  Disbursements ...........................................   24
H.  Accounting and Auditing    ................ .................   24
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS       ..........................................   25
A.  Benefits   ................................................   25
B.  Risks . .. .. .. .. .. . .. . *****.. .. ..... 0....*********. ..... a .........* **    26
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED .... ......................................   26
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan in
MarchlApril 1985. Mission members were Messrs. R. Cambridge (Mission Leader),
A. Andouyadis (Architect), E. Ndungutse (Economist), B. Parvez (Rural Trainer,
MP), R. Ellis (Vocational Educator, Consultant), E. Greig (Apprenticeship
Training, Consultant), and Mae.;. E. Cunningham and S. Lavador (Women's
Training Specialists, Consultants). Ms. Pak assisted in preparing the Report.
This document ha arerd edisbuionand maybeusedby recipintsoyin theperforMcC of
the officil dutieL Its ontets may not otbhews be dscosd without Wold aka



1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Vocational Training System
3. The Status of Women in Pakistan
4. Manpower Demand and Supply
5. Recurrent Expenditures on Vocational Training
6. Monitoring and Evaluation System
7. Performance Indicators - Credit 1109-PAC
8. Terms of Reference for Studies
9. Technical Assistance and Fellowship Program
10. Project Costs:
Table 1: Summary Costs by Pro,ect Component and Time
Table 2: Summary Costs by Category of Expenditure and Time
Table 3: Summary Costs by Component and Category of Expenditure
11. Finacming Plan by Project Component
12. Implementation Schedule
13. Additional Staff and Schedule of Appointment
14. Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
15. Estimated Annual Output from Project Institutions by Program and
Province
16. Selected Documents in Project File
CHART
1 - Organization of National Vocational Training System shoving National
Training Board and Provincial Training Boards
MA
Map of Pakistan Showing Project Institutions



-iii-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINIGG PROJECT
Basic Data
A. Population
1. Estimated Total (1984)                            93.3 milliou
2. Annual Rate of Growth (1970-81)                   3.0 p.a.
3. Adult Literacy Rate (1981)                        22.01
Urban                                           44.01
Rural                                           15.01
4. Labor Force (1981)
As proportion of Total Population               27.61
As Proportion of Population Over 10 Years       40.2Z
Male Participation Rate                         50.61
Female Participation Rate                        2.1S
B. Enrollments  (1983)  [
Ievel and Asze Grou.        Grade    Total    Male    Female  Z Female
1. Primary (5-9)             I-V    6,506.8  4,395.0   2,111.8    32.5
Punjab                          3,908.4  2,579.8   1,328.6    34.0
Sind                            1,623.0  1,010.5      612.5    37.7
BUFF                               806.3   662.3      144.0    17.9
Baluchistan                        169.2   143.5       25.7    15.2
2. Secondary (10-14)         VI-X   2,589.0  2,006.0      583.0    22.5
3. Higher (14+)               X+      519.8     374.3    145.5     28.0
Arts & Science Colleges          388.0      267.0   121.0      31.2
Professional Colleges              84.3      67.8     16.5     19.6
Universities                      47.5       39.5      8.0     16.8
C. Public Recurrent Expenditure on Vocational TrainiuR (1982)
1. As percent of GDP                                               0.07
2. As percent of total goverment recurrent expenditure             0.35
3. As percent of goverrment recurrent expenditure on education    5.15
D. Recurrent Expenditure on Vocational Training by Province (1983)
All
Baluchistan Sind NWFP Puniab Provinces
1. As percent of total Revenue
Receipts                        0.88      1.61  0.71   1.28     1.22
2. As percent of total Recurrent
Expenditures                    0.97      1.55  0.63   1.13     1.07
3. As percent of Recurrent
Expenditures on Education         6.77      5.94  2.29   4.58     4.73
and Vocational Training
j See Annex I for Comparative Education Indicators.



-iv-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAI3ING PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:       Government of Pakistan
Amount:         SDR      million (US$ 40.2 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Proiect
Description:    The main objectives of the project are to improve the quality
and expand the capacity of the vocational training system
to meet skilled and semi-skilled manpower requirements for
the industrial and rural sectors. The system expansion
objective would be achieved by (a) reequipping existing
vocational training centers and introducing additional cour-
ses; (b) developing new vocational training centers in subur-
ban and rural areas; and (c) strengthening the existing
provincial apprenticeship system to expand in-plant training
programs. The quality improvement objective would be
achieved by (a) expanding the National Training Development
Institute for instructor training; and (b) further
strengthening the management and project implementation
capacity of the National and Provincial Training Boards. The
Project would also establish a pilot and experimental program
of Women's Technical Training Centers.
Risks:          The major risk is the women's training component.  Despite
strong support at the Federal and Provincial levels, resis-
tance stemming from socio-cultural traditions is likely at
the local level. Implementation of a pilot scheme located in
the major cities and towns may diminish this potential
opposition. Further, the surveys conducted to determine
trades for women's training indicate areas where acceptance
of female employment would be greatest. Another risk to the
project is the strain the expanded system of new vocational
training centers in rural areas, instructor, women's and
apprenticeship training programs would place on the manage-
ment capacity of the National and Provincial Training Boards.
Measures have been taken to minimize this risk including
strengthening the management of the NTB and PTBs by provision
of additional staff and training, and the phased introduction
of new programs over the project period.



Estimated Cost: /a                                       Local  Foreign  Total
US$ millionr -
Vocational Training (Existing Centers)   5.95    7.21   13.16
Vocational Training (New Centers)        24.66   11.00   35.66
Apprenticeship Training                   1.18    0.29    1.47
Instructor Training                       2.07    1.14    3.21
Women-s Training                          5.99    1.91    7.90
Management and Implementation             2.28    2.13    4.41
Studies                                   0.05     -      0.05
Total Base Costs                     42.18   23.68   65.86
Contintencies
Physical                              3.76    2.01    5.97
Price                                13.55    7.95   21.50
Total Project Costs                  59.48   33.85   93.33
la  Includes taxes and duties of USS 14.70 million equivalent.
FinancinR Plan:                          Local    Foreign     Total
IDA                 19.51     20.69       40.20
UNDP                 1.29       1.60       2.89
CIDA                 1.15      5.37        6.51
EEC                  7.11      6.20       13.31
Government          30.42       -         30.42
Total           59.48     33.85       93.33
Estimated
Disbursement:  IDA FY      FY87 FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Annual      0.54 4.98 11.26  9.00  6.86  3.14  1.30  1.50  1.62
Cumulative  0.54 5.52 16.78 25.78 32.64 35.78 37.08 38.58 40.20
Economic
Rate of Return:     Not applicable



-1-
ISIAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKTSTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN PAKISTAN
A. Manpower. Enmlovment and Traininf
1.01    The population of Pakistan was estimated at 93.3 million in 1984 and
is growing at an overall rate of about 3Z per annum. While growth rates in
the rural areas are lover than urban areas, it is projected that the rural
labor force will rise from 20.6 million in 1983 to 22.6 million in 1988.
Approximately 14.0 million workers are engaged in the agriculture sector,
primarily on small farmer holdings. Another 6 million persons are engaged in
no-r-agricultural pursuits. Over the next 5 years, about 2 million additional
workers would be added to this force, and gainful employment activities must
be generated to absorb then. Rapid expansion of production including the
development of agro-industries, water development, improved agricultural
practices and expansion of extension services are required.
1.02    A number oe intractable problems affect the rural sector.  Domestic
and external migration from rural areas has led to a shortage of artisans in
villages and intensified pressures on urban areas. Overseas migration, while
hwaing a positive impact on the balance of payments through remittances from
migrants, has also had harmful side effects. When skilled workers leave in
large numbers, the quality of the building operation and maintenance of
infrastructure tend to suffer. This is particularly acute in rural areas.
While outmigration does reduce some of the pressure to absorb additional
workers, a large number of unemployed and underemployed people still exist :n
the villages. The increased uncertainty in the Middle East countries and the
evidence of a relative decline in the demand for semi-skilled workers, makes
the situation in the rural areas urgent and the development of an employment
strategy critical.
1.03    Rural Trainina.  Central to any strategy for rural employment is
training. Hovever, in Pakistan, training facilities are concentrated in
urban areas, and rural workers seeking opportunities to raise their skill
levels exacerbate migration to the urban areas. Tc overcome this problem, a
number of efforts which include training are being made by various organiza-
tions (Annex 2). The training programs are, however, directed to other
objectives, most of which are much wider and not exclusively focrsed on
manpower development. Training in traditional skills abounds but there has
been little systematic attempt to devise modern training curricula for this
population. Further, because of the poor quality of training that is
offered, trainees generally find it difficult to be absorbed in wage employ-
ment in either rural or urban areas. A small percentage end up in
self-employment activities but they often lack access to appropriate technol-
ogy and soon find that their output is not competitive with goods produced in



-2-
the urban industrial sector. The relative unattractiveness of village condi-
tions also makes it difficult to attract instructors who have been trdined in
an urban environment to work in rural communities. When these constraints
are combined with the low literacy rate in the rural areas as well as
socio-cultural attitudes, the problems of rural employment and training are
compounded.
1.04    The cycle of rural communities demanding training opportunities and
being provided with largely inadequate and irrelevant training which leads to
further unemployment and underemployment must be broken. To accomplish this,
agriculture production and rural development activities should be increased.
The human resource dimension of this strategy would require training of rural
workers to meet the demands of (a) agriculture, especially the mechanization
programs; (b) agro-industries; and (c) servicing rural infrastructure, par-
ticularly electrification, pump/irrigation, road and housing construction,
and transportation.
1.05    Industrial Trainint After the agriculture sector, the urban and
industrial sectors are expected to experience the largest employment growth
during the Sixth Five Year Plan period (1983-88) (SFYP). This increase will
depend on a number of factors. These include: (a) the pressures of an urban
population which is growing at a rate of almost 4.3Z per annum; (b) the
transformation of subsistence agriculture into commercial agriculture;
Cc) reduced net overseas migration; (d) structural changes in the industrial
production pattern, mainly a shift from primary consumer goods to engineering
goods; and (e) the promotion and introduction of modern technology. All of
these changes require professional, technical, and skilled manpower. In
recent years, the Government has invested in training programs and instituted
policies to produce skilled manpower for the industrial sector, as well as
for overseas employment. The output capacity of these institutions when
fully utilized, meet only about 48Z of the annual demand for skilled workers.
Institutional programs still need to be upgraded to realize their full poten-
tial and to maximize the investments already made. More importantly, the two
areas where most skilled worker training is undertaken, i.e., the private
sector and in-plant/on-the-job training, need to be strengthened and sup-
ported. Skilled manpower is a critical input to make a reality of the 6.7Z
(9.3Z in manufacturing) economic growth target of the Sixth Plan.
1.06    Women's Trainins.  Projections of the labor force for the SFYP assume
an increase in female participation rates from about 5Z to 7.9Z. The
majority of women workers would, however, continue to be in rural areas,
engaged mainly in on-farm and household activities. Unless opportunities for
further education and training are significantly increased, women are likely
to remain an underprivileged group, given present social customs and other
barriers to modern sector wage employment. Efforts to provide vocational
training to women in Pakistan have faced serious problems (Annex 2). Each
Province in the couutry differs from the other; districts have their own
traditions and the daily life of women varies at the village level. It has.
therefore, been quite difficult to design training courses and estimate the
degree of acceptance vocational training for employment ontside the home
would receive. To date, women's vocational training has been limited to
domestic activities which result in self-consumption rather than
income-generation. While a numbar of these centers have had as their prin-
cipal objective training for self employment, few have achieved this goal.



-3-
In fact, many young women attend these courses for the purpose of preparing
their dowry. For those centers where there is production, proper marketing
systems have not been devised. Finally, staffing the institutions with
qualified instructors has been a perennial problem. Customs and social
status make it difficult for women with skills to seek employment as instruc-
tors (and employment in general) after training (Annex 3). This
less-than-encouraging situation is -being faced by the Government which has
expressed a priority for wmen's advancement.
1.07    Government Strateftv.  The SFYP is the framework within which rural,
industrial, and women's training strategies must be formulated.  The prin-
cipal objectives of the plan are to (a) achieve a major breakthrough in
agriculture production; (b) expand the role of the private sector;
(c) rapidly develop uelected industries; and (d) develop social services.
Within these broad goals, public sector programs emphasize priorities which
directly affect the rural and industrial sectors and will generate manpower
and training requirements.
1.08    In the agricultural sector, increases in inputs and agricultural
services are expected to achieve the breakthrough objective. In the water
subsector, improvements in existing irrigation and drainage facilities by
-anal remodelling and rehabilitation, the extension of irrigation and
drainage through new schemes, and the development of medium-sized reservoirs
and public tubewells is given priority. In energy, a program to electrify
20,000 additional villages and increase coal production through higher
production from small mines is expecteu to directly benefit the rural sector.
The rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network plus the opening of
new roads in isolated areas are the priorities in transportation. In educa-
tion, the expansion of primary education requires the construction and/or
rehabilitation rf over 40,000 primary schools, as well as the fabrication of
the required furniture. Finally, in the housing sector, the proposal to
develop 500,000 small residential plots, mainly in suburban areas, also
requires skilled manpower from the rural areas.
1.09    In the context of these employment generating activities, the Govern-
ment policies are clear and logical. It will seek primarily to increase the
labor absorptive capacity in the agriculture sector. With the increased
mechanization in the sector, specific programs are to be implemented to
counteract the labor displacement that could result. These policies include:
(a) increasing cropping intensity which would be more labor intensive;
(b) increasing the share of credit to small farmers so they have access to
inputs; Cc) the development of intermediate technology, e.g., small tractors,
but ensuring that adequate service facilities are provided; (d) building up
rural infrastructure with emphasis on rural roads, electricity, and social
services; and (e) establishing small agro-industries. The number and
specific types of skilled workers required has been estimated. Workers in
the construction (carpenters, masons, plumbers, electricians), engineering
(mechanic, turner, fitter, welder, etc.), and associated trades would be in
demand. Wage employment, either in direct agricultural pursuits or related
rural-based industry and services is not likely to absorb all of the rural
work force. Self-employment in non-agriculture activities will have to be an
integral part of the strategy. Informal arrangements, throrgh which local
entrepreneurs establish small workshops for service and repair, sales and
distribution, will continue to be a source of employment for many rural



-4-
people. Actions on the part of Government, primarily increasing credit and
training facilities, are essential to this category of rural wor'kers.
1.10    In the industrial sector, the strategy seeks to consolidate and
continue the previous strategy of placing even greater emphasis on the role
of the private sector. The major elements of the Plan are: (a) a leading
role for the private sector in industrial development; (b) a large increase
in foreign investment; (c) greater attention to export promotion; and (d) an
emphasis on the development of agro-industries, engineering goods, and small
scale industries. AItaough the lead role is given to the private sector,
the efficiency of he public manufacturing enterprises is also given critical
importance because of their central role in key products (fer ilizers,
cement) and effects on downstream industries (e.g., steel).
1.11    The industrial sector strategy will have manpower and employment
implications. The Government is aware that the overall absorptive capacity
of the large scale manufacturing sector will continue to be limited, and
therefore, has focused on the small scale sector as the area where increased
employment opportunities are likely to exist or be created. The small scale
urban sector is expected to generate an additional 350,000-450,000 jobs
during the Plan period. Specific measures adopted to facilitate the growth
of the small scale sector include: (a) giving permissiGn for the setting up
of scooter, motorcycle, pickup, refrigerator, and aiT conditioner manufactur-
ing in the country. This should greatly encourage the small scale sector, as
most of the components would be made locally on a subcontract basis;
(b) protecting the interest of the small scale sector, especially the light
engineering industry; and Cc) extending credit facilities to the bulk of
small scale producers.
1.12    The Government also intends to take further steps to encourage over-
seas migration and train workers in skills which are in demand in the
labor-importing countries. Given the uncertain economic conditions in the
Middle East, net migration may decline over past years and not have quite the
effect on domestic employment as planned. To assist the absorption of
returning workers who are likely to increase during the period, policies to
help divert overseas remittances into productive in-estments, especially the
small scale manufacturing sector, will be instituted.
1.13    The encouragement of overseas migration is an anomaly.  Remittances
from migrant workers is one of the major foreign exchange earners for the
country. However, skilled manpower constitutes the majority of migrants and
their services are needed for domestic industrial development. The Govern-
ment policy to (a) reduce employment pressures; (b) earn foreign exchange;
and (c) establish training programs to replace the migrating skilled workers
is logical. Nonetheless, the net cost (i.e., remittance vs. lost domestic
production) may be higher than is readily apparent, because it is most often
the skilled and experienced industrial worker who goes overseas rather than a
new trainee. In this circumstance, private sector and on-the-job (in-plant)
training becomes more important. The Government, therefore, has correctly
planned that "the system of training skilled workers through private,
non-formal system of employers will be encouraged to expand because this



-5-
training can be made more effective in content and quality to suit the man-
power needs of the country.' 1/
1.14    Female employment is given special emphasis during the SFYP.  While
this vill increase pressures for generating domestic employment, the large
planned increases in investment in social services (especially education)
should absorb a large number. In primary education, enrollments are planned
to be doubled, of which about a half would be girls.  Under the literacy
program, priority is given to the 10-19 age group, with the emphasis on rural
women. Other significant investments in the sector aimed at women are (a)
the establishment of one girls' middle school in each union council; and (b)
the establishment of a women s university. In vocational training, programs
run by the various Ninistries/Provincial Directorates of Labor and agencies
all include programs which are designed for women.
1.15    The strategy of the SFYP clearly places a premium on skilled/semi-
skilled manpower, and it is estimated that about 268,600 would be required
annually to meet domestic demand. By 1995, the annual domestic demand for
skilled/semi-skilled labor would reach 342,600 (Annex 4, Table 4). The
continuing exodus of skilled/semi-skilled labor to the Middle East implies a
current net annual loss (migration minus returnees) of about 33,500
skilled/semi-skilled workers, and this is expected to increase to about
73,000 by 1995 (Annex 4, Table 2).
1.16    While the Goverment has invested in training facilities and
programs and instituted policies to increase the supply of skilled/semi-
skilled workers, existing public and private training institutions meet
only 48% of the current annual skilled/semi-skilled labor demand (Annex 4,
Table 3). The system has an annual output of about 156,000 graduates.
An additional 20,000 returning skilled/semi-skilled workers should be added
for a total supply of about 176,000. By 1995, when the proposed project is
fully operational, the annual supply would increase to approximately 218,000
or 63Z of skilled/semi-skilled labor requirements.  Because of increased
competition from other labor exporting countries, and changes in the develop-
ment priorities and employment opportunities in some Hiddle Eastern States,
demand for Pakistani labor is expected to decrease in the future. Despite
the high level of return migration, it has been established that returning
skilled workers do not return to their original occupation but engage them-
selves primarily in business and trading activities. Return migration will
therefore not improve Pakistan-s skilled manpower supply significantly.
B. Problems and Issues in Vocational Training
1.17    A. is the case in many developing countries, the vocational training
system in Pakistan suffers from problems which relate to financing,
relevance, and quality. Pakistan has taken major steps to overcome most of
these problems (paras 1.24-1.27) but they persist in varying degrees in each
province.
jj SFYP, GOP, Chapter 15 - paragraph 28.



-6-
1.18    FinancinR.  Education and training are predominantly public financed.
As in other countries of South Asia, Pakistan devotes a low share of total
resources to education and training. The total education and training budget
has remained at less than 2.0% of GDP in comparison with the 3-5Z in other
developing countries at similar GNP per capita levels (Annex 1).  In 1983-84,
public expenditure on education and training amounted to Rs. 7,408.1 million
(US$548.8 million) or 7.0% of total public expenditures. This compares vith
a range of 7.0% - 22.0% in thirteen other countries of the Asia Region. In
1983-84 recurrent expenditure on education and training amounted to Rs.
5,440.3 million (US$402.9 million) or 7.2% of total recurrent expenditures
and 1.6% of GDP. Development expenditures totalled Rs. 1,967.8 million
(US$145.8 million) or 6.2% of the ADP. Expenditure on vocational and techni-
cal training accounts for less than 7% of total educational expenditures.
Public recurrent expenditures on vocational and technical training amounted
to Rs. 280.28 million (US$20.76 million) in 1983/84, with the following
distribution by Province: Punjab 54.5%, Sind 32.3%, N.W.F.P. 7.1X and
Baluchistan 6.2% (Annex 5, Table 1). Recurrent expenditure on vocational and
technical training as a proportion of provincial recurrent expenditures
ranges from 0.5% in the N.W.F.P. to 1.9% in Sind, for an average of 1.3% for
all the provinces. As a proportion of total recurrent expenditures on educa-
tion and training in the provinces, only about 5% is allocated for vocational
and technical training.
1.19    With a fast-growing largely rural population and budgetary con-
straints, the country faces a dilemma between meeEing long-term social goals
on the one hand and manpower requirements on the other. Because the inade-
quacy of financial resources imposes limits on the development of education
and training, the quality of training suffers, although this is precisely
what the Government should strive to prevent. Existing budgetary constraints
highlight the need to review existing policies and the introduction of new
financing instruments.
1.20    The Government's commitment to reinforce vocational training has been
confirmed at the highest level of the Government. However, the techniques by
which a rapid expansion of vocational training can be achieved remains an
issue. The viability of public financed vocational training programs rests
on the assurance that recurrent budget resources will be made available both
during and beyond the current project. The investment and recurrent expenses
for vocational training are now largely met through Federal Government trans-
fers to the Provinces. Although these resources are expected to meet the
needs of the proposed project, the burden on the budgets of the Provinces is
likely to be substantial in the future. A related issue is how to maximize
resource mobilization for financing training programs in both the public and
private sectors. To maximize efficiency, contributions should be commen-
surate with the benefits which accrue to the user whether public or private.
These issues require the Government to develop and adopt a clear policy on
the financing of vocational training (paras 2.02-2.03).
1.21    Relevance.  The continual lack of systpmatic assessments of manpower
requirements is problematic. Perhaps because the demand for skilled/semi-
skilled labor is so strong no real effort is warranted. Nonetheless, in the
absence of analysis and forecasts of the quantity and type of manpower
required, training programs run the risk of not only training in the wrong



-7-
areas, but also of not producing manpower in a timely manner to meet develop-
ing national needs.
1.22    The lack of relevance is also linked to the mix of institutional and
in-plant programs in the system. If the system is institution dominated, it
is likely that programs will tend to be academic and lack the input and
experience of the shop floor. Government encouragement of in-plant programs
is essential if the national vocational training system (NYTS) is to be made
relevant. In rural areas where neither institutions or industry exist in
abundance, the first and easier step is to develop institutional programs.
Care must be taken that links are established with local employers. Iu the
urban/industrial areas, foreign subsidaries and the larger domestic
enterprises have established in-plant programs to upgrade their workers. The
Apprenticeship Ordinance of 1962, which is intended to promote this activity
among smaller employers has not been effective or enforceable. This is
illustrated by the fact that in 1984, of 6,000 local enterprises, only 350
participated with a total output of about 4,000 apprentices. This is an
indication of the still rather limited involvement of smaller employers in
vocational training prograss designed and operated by government.  A movement
away from enforcement and legal interpretations of the Ordinance to one of
assistance and cooperation with local employers is critical if progress is to
be made.
1.23    Quality.  Five factors contribute to the poor quality of institu-
tional training programs. These are (a) insufficient consumable training
materials, (b) inadequate equipment, (c) poor curriculum including tests and
standards, (d) lack of qualified instructors, and (e) poor supervision of the
training centers. The NVTS established in 1980 recognized these deficien-
cies, and the institutions which now make up the system suffer less acutely
from these problems than other institutions outside the system. The Federal
Government is financing, at acceptable levels, all requirements for
materials, equipment, tests, and other software. Salary scales have been
improved and there have been few problems in recruiting instructors and
retaining them in service. The Provincies have accepted the obligation to
maintain NVTS institutions at present levels and have increased the type and
frequency of institutional supervision.  A monitoring and evaluation system
developed under Credit 1109-PAR is in place and has helped to highlight both
administrative and instructional deficienries in the institutions. The
evaluative aspects of the system however needs improvement (Annex 6). There
are many vocational training programs, especially those outside of WTS and
the purview of the Provincial Labor Departments, which suffer from all of
these weaknesses.
C. Government Policies and ProKrams in Vocational Training
1.24    In 1978, in order to overcome the problems in vocational training,
the Government, with the assistance of ILO and TDA, embarked on a study of
the vocational training system. The outcome was a Vocational Training Plan
(VTP) for the period 1978-1983. The major problems of the system were high-
lighted and a remedial strategy outlined. It included (a) restructuring the
uational training management system to (i) establish strong linkages with the
Provincial Govermments and employers, (ii) encompass rural and women-s train-
ing, and (iii) provide channels for the increased flow of training funds; (b)
reorganizing and expanding the training delivery system with the emphasis on



-8-
increasing the utilization of existing facilities through double shift opera-
tions and the adoption of short courses; and (c) improving the skill level of
trainees through the training and upgrading of instructors and increasing the
supply of training materials.
1.25    In March 1980, the Government acting on the recommendations included
in the VTP, enacted the National Training Ordinance. The new management
structure enabled by the Ordinance includes a National Training Board (NTEB)
and Provincial Training Boards (PTBs). The Boards are broadly representative
of Federal ministries and Provincial departments, industry, labor and private
training organizations. The NTB is served by a Secretariat and the National
Training Development Institute (NTDI), and administers the National Training
Board Fund. In addition to reorganizing the management of vocational train-
ing, the Government decided to: (a) use second shifts in public and some
private institutions, to produce an additional 5,000 semi-skilled workers per
year; (b) construct seven new polytrade centers for the Overseas Pakistani
Foundation (OFF); (c) expand vocational training facilities, including the
establishment of eight new TTCs, provide additional equipment for four exist-
ing TTCs and reequip all (24) GVIs; (d) expand rural artisan training through
the establishment of rural training centers; and (g) expand women's training
through support to training/production centers for women in the Punjab and
Sind Provinces.
1.26    With the assistance of IDA, a beginning was made on some of these
programs (a and c) under Credit 1109-PAK. At the start of the SFYP in 1983,
the vocational training strategy was reassessed and its general orientation
endorsed. However, programs aimed at the rural population, women, and an
increased role for the private sector were called for. This added emphasis
was included in a report prepared by GOP, with ILO assistance, and financed
under Credit 1109-PAK. The design of the proposed project is based on the
recommendations of this Report (IDA Vocational Training Project - Phase II;
Volume I - Industrial Training, Volume II - Rural Training, Volume III -
Women s Training).
D. External Financinu  of Vocational Training
1.27    Since 1967, the Government has received technical assistance from
multilateral and bilateral sources for vocational training. The Swedish
Government assisted in the development of the Swedish-Pakistan Institute of
Technology which operates evening programs for vocational training, and the
Netherlands Government provided US$ 0.75 million for the Pak-Netherlands
Training Center at Multan. The Federal Republic of Germany's (FRG) assis-
tance has been the most extensive. In addition to US$ 2 million in equipment
for the TTCs at Ghulberg and Moghulpura, the FRG has assisted in the estab-
lishment of an Apprenticeship Training Wing, a Development Cell and a Staff
Training Wing in the Punjab Labor Department. The development of these
institutions involved over 35 man-years of technical assistance and 40 fel-
lowships (1-2 years each) for Pakistanis. The FRG's assistance is on-going
and under a recent agreement, they will support the establishment of a Tech-
nical Training Center for Women in Lahore as well as technical and other
support to the Punjab Labor Department. FRG also provides limited assistance
to the TTCs at Quetta and Hub Chouki in Baluchistan. The Hans Seidel Founda-
tion is assisting the development of the TTC at Loralai, Baluchistan. The
UNDP, with the ILO as executing agency, has also assisted the Government.



-9-
It has provided assistance for the preparation of the VTP (para 1.25). Since
1978, the UNDP has financed the services of international experts, equipment,
and fellowships under (a) the Federal Program for Skill Development (US$ 1.55
million), and (b) co-financed with IDA, Credit 1109-PAK, where it provided
US$ 2.5 million.
E. Bank Role and Experience in Education and Trainin2
1.28    The Bank has supported the development of the sector with six credits
totalling US$ 116.4 million. To date, three projects have been completed.
The First Education Project (Cr. 50-PAR), which financed the expansion of
Lyallpur (Faisalabad) Agricultural University and equipment for six polytech-
nics was completed about eight years behind schedule. The main causes of
delay included two wars, floods, shortages of materials, and sharp price
increases which affected the pace of work. Other factors which affected
implementation were cumbersome implementation procedures, the unfamiliarity
of project staff with IDA procedures, and the late appointment of consulting
architects. The Second Education Project (Cr. 206-PAK), which assisted the
NED Government Engineering College in Karachi, was completed three and a half
years behind schedule and suffered to a lesser extent from similar problems.
The main cause of delay was the Government of Sind's reluctance to use Credit
funds for foreign experts and fellowships. Project Completion Reports (PCR)
and Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) for Credits 50-PAK and 206-PAR
have been completed and issued. 1/ The PCR of Credit 50-PAR
concluded that the physical objectives of the project were accomplished in
terms of training capacity but little qualitative improvement in the techni-
cal institutes was achieved. Substantial improvement in the qualitv of
education in the agricultural university was attained, but demand for
agriculture graduates was over-estimated and actual employment opportunities
were less than originally expected. The PCR for Credit 206-PAK found that
the project had been successful in meeting manpower needs, but the stu-
dent/staff ratios were higher than those consistent with high quality educa-
tion. This had been caused by the excessive pressure for engineering educa-
tion and increased domestic and foreign employment opportunities. The PPARs
for both projects substantiated the PCR findings. Nonetheless, they were
critical of the design and implementation of the physical construction
programs, the frequency and type of IDA supervision, and the nature of the
dialogue conducted with the Government and technical assistance agencies in
the implementation of the educational objectives of the projects.
1.29    The Third Education Project (Credit 678-PAK) was completed in June
1984, two years behind schedule. The project includes two distinct com-
ponents (a) training middle and higher level agriculture manpower, and (b)
general teacher training. The PCR of March 1985 concludes that for the
agriculture component, improvements in buildings, curriculum and staff
development have not yet resulted in major improvements in the quality of
middle-level agricultural staff in the government service. For the teacher
,] Project Performance Audit Report: Pakistan - First Education Project
(Credit 'O-PAR), Report No. 4607 dated June 30, 1983.
Iroject Performance Audit Report: Pakistan - Second Education Project
(Credit 206-PAR), Report No. 4564 dated June 17, 1983.



-10-
training component, the PCR notes that only about 78% of appraisal enrollment
targets have been achieved and this due to IDA's overestimate of teacher
demand. Among the lessons to be learned from this project, was that supervi-
sion of project sites should be more systematic, and that underenrollment
should be more closely monitored by Bank staff. The PPAR has not yet been
issued. The Fourth Education Project (Credit 892-PAR) has been completed on
schedule although credit proceeds were not fully disbursed. It was an
experimental project, yielding important results, and guided the design of
the Second Primary Education Project which was approved by Board in June
1985. The PCR has not yet been issued.
1.30    The only Credit for vocational training is Credit 1109-PAK of 1981
(SDR 19.7 million). The project supports the objectives of creating a NVTS
as outlined in the National Training Ordinance of March 1980. It has as its
specific objectives: increasing the capability of the Government to plan,
manage and evaluate skill training; improving quality and increasing output
from vocational institutes, and improving the productivity of employed
workers. The project includes 37 centers (31 existing and 6 new), estab-
lishing the National and Provincial Training Boards and the National Training
Development Institute (NTDI), training 640 instructors and 2,8P0 in-plant
training personnel, and technical assistance (expert services and fellow-
ships) financed by UNDP, with ILO as the executing agency.  In addition to
these broad objectives, the project seeks to establish a truly national
system of vocational training. Trade standards, curriculum and tests are
being developed and instructors in all provinces being trained to these
levels. Employers have been encouraged, through advisory committees at each
center and participation in the NTDI curriculum development efforts, to be
more active in the direction of government sponsored institutional vocational
training. The project also attempts to coordinate activities of other donors
in the sector, and has worked closely with FRG supported centers in the
Punjab. As important, under the aegis of the project, the basic pay scales
of instructors were increased, and the recruitment, training and retention in
service of qualified instructors is no longer the perennial problem which
plagued government sponsored vocational training programs.
1.31    Performance to date has been encouraging, despite a rather slow
start. Indications are that expenditures and disbursements are improving,
and physical and educational targets are being achieved (Annex 7). On the
physical side, despite a 24 month delay and the poor performance of two
contractors, about 70Z of civil works is completed.  On the educational side,
enrollments have doubled since appraisal, with the capacity created in
project institutions facilitating an output of about 6,500 trainees per year.
This differs from the appraisal estimate of 10,000 trainee output which was
based on six-mwoth courses aud two shifts for all project institutions.
During the development of national skill standards (curriculum) the commit-
tees established by the WTDI included and consulted with employers. These
consultations revealed that employers were unwilling to accept pre-employment
training courses of six months duration for all trades. National standards
therefore reflect requirements which include employers concerns, and most
Level III (semi-skilled) pre-employment courses now range from six months
(mason, carpenter) to one year (turner, fitter, etc.). This has had obvious
effects on enrollment and output targets. In the area of in-plant training



-11-
where a number of in-plant training instructors have been trained, the tech-
niques used for upgrading on-the-job workers and thereby improving produc-
tivity have not been as successful as expected. The program has been
oriented to, and more of a benefit for supervisors, than to skilled and
semi-skilled workers who were the targets of the component. Further, the
development of an in-plant training advisory capacity in the Apprenticeship
Services of the Provincial Labor Departments did not materialize. This was
due partly to the failure to upgrade the Provincial Apprenticeship Services
including the appointment of six additional staff and the upgrading of eight
existing staff, as well as the use of an approach which focussed on a
legalistic application of the apprenticeship Ordinance. Provincial govern-
ments have now taken action to complete appointment and upgrading of staff.
In the Punjab, six positions of apprenticeship officers are being upgraded.
while in the Sind, three new staff have been appointed. In MWFP and
Baluchistan, one new post each bas been created and filled. The estab-
lishment of the National and Provincial Boards and the NTDI has shown steady
progress. As with institutional development, the process by which the Boards
would function as effectively as envisaged, is expected to take a long time.
The Boards have been able to perform some of their functions well, e.g.,
supervision and management of training programs, but are weak in otber areas,
e.g., manpover planning, evaluation, and the development of annual training
plans. Performance also varies among the Provinces with the Punjab and NWFP
showing more progress than others. The implementation experiences with this
project have been incorporated in the design of the proposed project. Credit
1109-PAK is scheduled to be closed in December 1986, but because of civil
vorks delays may require an extension to December 1987.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Goals and Obiectives
2.01    The main objective of the proposed project is to improve the quality
and expand the capacity of the NVTS to meet skilled and semi-skilled manpower
requirements for the industrial and agriculture/rural sectors. The system
expansion objective would be achieved by (a) increasing the capacity of
existing vocational training institutes through reequipping them and intro-
ducing additional courses, (b) developing new vocational training institutes
in suburban and rural areas, and (c) expanding apprenticeship/in-plant train-
ing programs. The quality improvement objective would be achieved by
(a) strengthening instructor training programs, and (b) further strengthening
the management and project implementation capacity of the National and
Provincial Training Boards. The project would establish a pilot and
experimental component of Women's Technical Training Centers.
2.02    Another objective of the project would be to assist the Government
in establishing a clear policy for cost recovery. The Government's policy to
provide "free" general education is well articulated. The policy as regards
the financing of vocational training, however, is not clear. As a rule, the
principle of providing facilities and programs at nominal costs to
beneficiaries seems to apply in all Provinces. In selected programs, i.e.,
those aimed at the rural, poor and female populations, stipends are given to
enrollees. These subsidies are justified as being either (a) an incentive to
attract students, (b) a technique to cover the cost of access to the program



-12-
(transportation, meals, etc.), or (c) an equity/equalization consideration.
Ultimately, as vocational training programs expand, the recurring cost of
these and other subsidies on Provincial budgets will be significant. Voca-
tional training is also offered by the private sector. Here the policy is to
recover a part, if not all of the costs from the beneficiary, and fees are
charged. While it has been argued that the training offered at private
institutions is inferior to programs in public institutions, it is perhaps a
demonstration of excess demand for vocational training that people are will-
ing and continue to pay for "inferior" training.
2.03    Since it is the Government's policy to encourage the private sector
in all areas of the economy especially industry and education, there is a
need to rationalize the policy in the areas of cost recovery (fees) and
subsidies (stipends) in vocational training. The institutions and programs
which are now a part of, and those to be included in the NVTS, require a
consistent policy across all Provinces. Experience shows that people are
willing to pay for vocational training, and the market can and does establish
rates for various courses. As a part of project development, the Government
stated its intention to increasingly recover costs through the introduction
of a realistic fee structure in NVTS institutions and replace the present
nominal charges which are levied on students (Annex 5, Table 3). In order
for the Government to implement an effective cost recovery policy, it has to
undertake a study of the financing of vocational training including an
analysis of levels of subsidization, recurrent budget implications, and the
ultima-e impact of a changed policy on enrollments, beneficiaries and
national manpower development objectives. The study is included in the
proposed project (para 2.17).
B. Vocational Traning (Existing Centers) (Proposed Outlay US$ 13.15 million) 1/
2.04    The objective of this component is to support the industrial develop-
ment strategy of the Government by expanding training opportunities and
ensuring a continual supply of skilled and semi-skilled workers to meet
identified requirements. Vocational training would be expanded and the
quality of the present system further improved. National Skill Standards
curriculum (Level III - semi-skilled worker, and Level II - skilled worker),
double shifts and new courses would be introduced in 20 existing vocational
training institutions. The project would provide assistance in the form of
equipment, consumable training materials, and the salaries of the required
additional instructors. The 20 institutions include 15 centers which are
already a part of the NVTS and which were assisted (consumable materials for
second shifts, and additional staff salaries) under Credit 1109-PAK. The
other five centers are almost completely constructed and being finaaced by
the respective provincial governments. The project would only support the
provision of equipment.
2.05    Initially, all courses will be to the Level III standard but be
raised eventually to Level II. Each new course would have a capacity for 16
jj This and subsequent statements of proposed outlays are baseline costs
including taxes.



-13-
trainees. Of the courses to be introduced, 11 would be in refrigeration and
air conditioning; 10 in radio and television; 6 in draftmanship (2 civil and
4 mechanical); 7 in electric installation; 4 in auto mechanics; 4 in plumb-
ing; 2 in tractor operator mechanics; and 1 course each in welding, carpentry
and auto electrician. Additional staffing would be provided for the new
trades only.
2.06    The additional intake capacity generated by the inclusion of 47 new
courses of 16 trainees each would be about 750. The improvement in the
quality of training with better equipment should also reduce wastage rates.
The quality of training would also be improved for over 5,000 trainees per
annum who would be enrolled in the other courses in the 15 existing institu-
tions. In the Puniab, 15 institutions would be assisted. These are the TTCs
at Gulberg, Moghalpura, Multan, Rahim Yar Khan, Gujar Khan, Sargodha, Mian-
wali, Kasur, Bahawalnagar, Depalpur, Pindi Gheb, Sahiwal, and ATCs at
Faisalabad, Gujranwala and Ferozewala. In Sind, 3 TTCs at Sukkur, Karachi
and Kotri would be assisted. In NWFP, the TTCs at Peshawar would be equipped
and in Baluchistan, the TTC at Quetta would be provided with additional
equipment.
C. Vocational Training (New Centers) (Proposed Outlay US$ 35.66 million)
2.07    Thirty-one new Vocational Training Centers would be developed to meet
two objectives: These are to (a) provide quality vocational training to meet
skilled/semi-skilled manpower requirements in the agriculture/rural sector;
and (b) create vocational training opportunities for rural out-of-school
youth and adults for wage and/or self-employment. The new centers would be
located in suburban and rural areas and differ from urban (existing) training
centers only in the size of enrollments and the range (5) of courses otfered
(Annex 14, Table 2). The trades selected for each Center reflect local
requirements and are based on detailed socio-economic surveys conducted at
the location of each proposed center.
2.08    Recruitment of trainees would be local, but hostel facilities would
be provided for about 35% of enrollees. This is especially important in the
more rural districts where the catchment area of the center includes many
remote Tehsils. The maximum number of trainees per trade would be 16, and
the annual output per center would be 160 (2 shifts). Each Center would
establish an Advisory Body with representation from local business, public
sector organizations and civic leaders. It is expected that this group would
maintain liaison between the center and local industry/workshops where some
of the trainees are expected to gain employment. During negotiations, the
Government provided an assurance that it would establish an Advisory Body for
each new institution as soon as possible, but no later than three months of
the opening of each center. Each center would have 9 staff (Principal, Chief
Instructor, 2 Senior Instructors, 5 Instructors). Senior Instructors and
Instructors would be expected to be diploma holders or equivalent with
experience and new recruits would be trained (para 2.11). In the Puniab, 12
centers would be located at Vehari, Chakwal, Muzaffargarh, Bhakkar, Leiah,
Rajanpur, Attock, Tobe Tek Singh, Okara, Mian Channu, Murre and Jaranwala.
In the Sind Province, 8 centers would be developed at Sanghar, Tando Adam,
Mirpur, Khairpur, Umarkot, Shikarpur, Jacobabad, and Naushero Feroze. In
NWFP, 6 centers located at Charsadda, Abbotabad, Hangu, Karak, Chitral and



-14-
DIR would be established; and in Baluchistan, 5 centers would be constructed
at Nushki, Dera Murad Jamali, Mastung, Pishin and Gawadar.
D. Apprenticeship Training (Proposed Outlay USS 1.47 million)
2.09    The promotion and expansion of apprenticeship and other in-plant
training in public and private enterprises would be addressed by this comr-
ponent. The main technique to achieve this objective would be to strengthen
the Provincial Apprenticeship Services to become In-plant Training Develop-
ment Services and to shift the focus of activity from the legalistic enforce-
ment of the Apprenticeship Ordinance to providing a range of training serv-
ices to the enterprise. These include short workshops and seminars on train-
ing for employers; assisting firms to assess their training needs, developing
training policies and plans; developing detailed training programs for
semi-skilled workers, upgrading training for skilled workers and apprentices;
operating short courses for supervisors and for instructors; and monitoring
and evaluating results. The process of strengthening the existing Provincial
Apprenticeship Services would include (a) increasing the number of appren-
ticeship/training development officers; (b) broadening the mandate of the
service to include advisory functions on metbods of establishing in-plant
training programs; (c) training and upgrading new and existing appren-
ticeship/training development officers; (d) raising the grades (BPS) for the
training development officer in order to attract suitably qualified persons;
and (e) providing transport. In the Punjab, 6 additional officers would be
appointed and 6 vehicles provided; in Sind, 12 additional training develop-
ment officers and 4 vehicles would be provided; in NWFP, 3 additional
officers and 2 vehicles, and in Baluchistan, 3 additional officers and 2
vehicles, would be supported under the project.
E. Instructor Training (Proposed Outlay USS 3.21 million)
2.10    The objectives of the instructor training component are to improve
the quality, expand the output of qualified instructors, and upgrade existing
instructors in the NVTS. These would be achieved by expanding the capacity
of tne National Training Development Institute (NTDI) in Islamabad. Instruc-
tor training places would be allocated on the basis of instructor deployment
within the Provinces.
2.11    The trainees would be instructors and senior instructors in the main
trade areas covered by the NVTS. There are 155 existing untrained instruc-
tors and they would receive training as a priority. During negotiations, the
Goverrment provided ar assurance that all new instructor recruits would
receive training within one year of the end of their probation (para 2.08).
The NTDI would also assist in arranging upgrading courses in the Provinces.
2.12    The major training course would have an annual intake of 150, be of
48 weeks duration, and lead to a Qualified Instructor Certificate. The
intake would be spread over various trades, but would be limited to a group
size of no more than 10 trainees per instructor trainer. The exact distribu-
tion of trades to be offered in any year would be determined according to
provincial requirements, anid would depend on recruitment patterns. The
course would contain the equivalent of 24 weeks of skill upgrading, in addi-
ticn to a course in teaching/instruction methodology. There would also be
some training places (about 10 per year) reserved for the training of master



-15-
trainers. Short courses for senior staff would also be nrovided at the NTDI.
In order to staff the NTDI, twenty-four instructor trainers would be
required. Three man-years of expert services in three trades areas
(refrigeration/air conditioning, industrial electronics, and draftmanship)
would also be provided. As a result of the project, an additional 150
instructor training places would be provided and this would increase the NVTS
instructor training capacity to 210 per year. The Staff Training Wing in the
Punjab has a training capacity of about 60.
F. Women-s TraininR (Proposed Outlay US$ 7.89 million)
2.13    Training of women in traditional (income-saving) areas proliferate in
all provinces of the country. The component would focus on the development
of training programs for women in non-traditional fields where the evidence
suggests that wage employment (income-generation) is possible. This would be
a pilot and experimental program and therefore, limited in both the number of
institutions and range of skill trades to be offered. The Womenus Technical
Training Centers would be located in the provincial capitals or major
cities/towns. Courses to be offered include (a) office/secretarial (includ-
ing English and Urdu typing stenographer); (b) repair and service of
household appliances (including radio and TV); (c) technical/architectural
drafting; (d) computer input operator; (e) telephone/telex operator; and
(f) photography/commercial illustrator. Course durations would range from 6
mounths to 2 years and be in line with National Skill Standards (Levels III
and II). Hostel facilities for about 45% of enrollment and houses for the
principals and support staff would be provided. In Baluchistan, hostel and
houses would be provided for instructors and senior instructors. Each Center
would be staffed with a principal, one chief instructor, senior instructors,
instructors, vocational counsellor, hostel manager and other ancillary staff.
Each Center would establis! .n Advisory Body with representatives from local
business and civic organizations. During negotiations, the Government
provided an assuranice that an Advisory body would be established for each
center as soon as possible but no later than three sonthe of its opening. In
addition, there would be a stvudent counselling and placement office in each
center with links to the local labor market. The snnual output would range
from 110 to 200 trainees depending on the size of the center. In the Puniab.,
2 Women-s Technical Training Centers would be established at Rawalpindi and
1ultan. In Sind I Women's TTC would be set-up in Hyderabad, in NWFP 1
Women-s TTC would be located at Peshawar, and in Baluchistan, 1 center would
be constructed at Quetta.
G. Mana2ement and Implementation (Proposed Outlay US$ 4.40 million)
2.14    The project would be implemented by the National Training Bureau of
the MOLM at the Federal level, and the Provincial Training Boards (Labor and
Manpower Departments) at the provincial level. The National Training Bureau
would have to be strengthened to now cover vocational training in suburban
and rural areas, women-s training, as well as managing the new civil works
program. A Women's Training and Employment Unit would also be established
with responsibilities for instructor training for the Women-s TTCs, employ-
ment, material development, regional coordination and research. For civil
works, the Bureau would retain one civil works advisor for the overall
management of the construction program. The Government would extend its



-16-
present contract with the ILO/EQUIPRO for equipment procurement. The con-
tract would be expanded to include installation and commissioning, training
of National Training Bureau and provincial staff in procurement, and estab-
lishing a computerized system for equipment maintenance and inventory con-
trol.
2.15    The Provincial Training Boards would also be strengthened.  Addi-
tional staff would be required for the development of the new centers and
women s training. Civil works officers would also be designated to work with
the civil works adviser in the National Training Bureau. The Women-s Unit
would work on reorienting policies and programs as regards women in develop-
ment, particularly their access to productive employment and training. In
all Provinces, additional staff, vehicles and some office equipment would be
required and be financed under the project.
2.16    Monitorins and Evaluation activities have been developed under Credit
1109-PAK (Annex 6). However, the evaluation of training output from the
training centers, particularly an assessment through tracer studies of their
employability is only now begining. In order to strengthen this and other
aspects of vocational training evaluation, the monitoring and evaluation unit
in the Bureau would be strengthened with appropriate staff and equipment, and
similar units established in the PTBs.
H. Studies (Proposed Outlay USS 0.05 million)
2.17    The project would finance a number of studies to be conducted by
local and/or foreign research and training institutions. These studies would
focus on (a) cost recovery and the financing of vocational training;
Cb) womenus training and employment opportunities in non-traditional areas;
Cc) financial compensation schemes and training in private enterprises;
Cd) rural apprenticeship prograns; and (e) survey of industrial sector needs
and the demand for advanced (Level I) vocational training. These studies are
expected to lead to new policies or a change of existing policies in voca-
tional training.  Draft terms of reference have already been prepared and
discussed with the Government (Annex 8). During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that it would complete the studies and review the find-
ings with IDA by December 31, 1988. The Government also provided assurances
that it would introduce (a) by March 1, 1989, a system of cost recovery in
the NVTS (para 2.03); (b) by March 1, 1990, a pilot rural apprenticeship
program; and (c) by March 1, 1991, Level I courses in selected vocational
training centers.
I. Technical Assistance Summary (Proposed Outlay US$ 2.73 million)
2.18    The technical assistance to be provided under the project would
comprise 16.0 staff years of expatriate expert services, 18.6 staff-years
of local expert services, 10.0 staff-years of international and regional
fellowships, 416.5 staff-years of local training and would be allocated as
outlined in Annex 9. UNDP and CIDA would finance the technical assistance.
UNDP would finance all technical assistance for vocational, instructor, and
apprenticeship training. CIDA would finance the requirements for women's
training. The EEC would also co-finance the project but would limit its
participation to civil works and equipment (para 3.06). The Government will
utilize the services of ILO/EQUIPRO for the procurement of all equipment, and



-17-
its installation and commissioning (para 3.12). Agreement in principle of
co-financing between GOP and UNDP, and CIDA, and EEC has been obtained. The
signing of technical assistance agreements between GOP and UNDP, and CIDA,
and EEC would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The signing of a
service contract between GOP and ILO/EQUIPRO for the procurement installation
and commissioning of equipment and related training would also be a condition
of credit etfectiveness.
III. PROJECT COST. FINANCING. INPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Proiect Costs
3.01    Summaries of cost.  The total cost of the project including duties
and taxes on imported goods is estimated at about Rs 1,651.66 million or USS
93.33 million equivalent. Detailed project costs by component, categories
of expenditure and time are given in Annex 10. Breakdown of local and for-
eign costs by project component, categories of expenditure and Province are
summarized in Tables 3.1 and 3.2 and 3.3.
Table 3.1 : Proiect Cost by Component 1/
|                   I   Rupee (million)    I    US$ (million)        1% of Basel
I  Component        ILocal IForeiaul Total ILocal IForeignl Total I Costs  I
IVocational Trainingi       I       I       I        I       I       I         I
I - New Centers     1 403.751 180.111 583.861 24.66 1 11.00 1 35.66 1  54.0  1
I - Existing Centersl  97.321 118.061 215.381  5.95 1 7.21 1 13.16 1  20.0  1
lApprenticeship TrR.1  19.391   4.751  24.141  1.18 1 0.29 1 1.47 1   2.0  1
IWomen's Training   1 97.951  31.271 129.221  5.99 1 1.91 1 7.90 1  12.0  1
lInstructor Trainin-l  33.941  18.611  52.551  2.07 1 1.14 1 3.21 1   5.0  1
IManagement/Imple-  I       I       I       I       I        I       I         I
I  mentation        1 37.291  34.911  72.201  2.28 1 2.13 1 4.41 1   7.0  1
*IStudies           I  0.841    -  1  0.841 0.05 1  -   1 0.051    0.0  1
I  Base Costs       1 690.481 387.7111078.191 42.18 1 23.68 1 65.86 1 100.0  I
I Continsencies     I       I       I       I       I        I       I
I  Physical         1 61.451  36.141  97.591  3.76 1 2.21 1 5.97 1   9.0  1
I  Price             1300.621 175.261 475.881 13.55 1 7.95 1 21.50 1  33.0  1
1  Subtotal         1 362.071 211.401 573.471 17.31 1 10.16 1 27.27 1  42.0  1
ITOTAL PROJECT COSTS11052.551 599.1111651.661 59.49 1 33.84 1 93.33 1 142.0  1
j/ Includes taxes and duties.
NOTE: Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.



-18-
Table 3.2  : Project Costs by Categories of Expenditure 1/
I                    I   RuDee (million)    1    US$ (million)  -    Z of   I
I Component          I Local IForeignl Total I LocallForeigul TotallBase Costal
ICivil Works h               I       I       I      I       I       I          I
I Professional Fees  1 261.961  36.781 298.741 16.011  2.24 1 18.251   27.8   1
I Furniture          I 14.001   1.911  15.911  0.861  0.11 1 0.971    1.5
IEquipment & Eq.    I        I       I       I      I        I      I
I Management Fees   1 215.261 306.881 522.141 13.141 18.75 1 31.891   48.4   1
I Vehicles           1  3.461   3.901   7.361  0.211  0.24 1 0.451    0.7   I
I Books              1  2.521   0.631   3.151  0.151  0.04 1 0.191    0.3   I
I Expert Services    1  7.821  19.621  27.441  0.481  1.20 1 1.681    2.5   1
I Fellowships        I 10.791   6.401  17.191  0.661  0.39 1 1.051    1.6   I
I Salaries           1 121.531    -  1 121.531  7.42i   -   I 7.421   11.2   I
i Stipends           1  7.161    -  I  7.161  0.441   -   I 0.441    0.6   I
IConsumable Materialsl  21.461   7.221  28.681  1.311  0.45 1 1.761    2.7   1
I O&M                I 24.521   4.371  28.891 1.50! 0.26 1 1.761    2.7   I
I Base Costs         1 690.481 387.7111078.191 42.181 23.68 1 65.861 100.0   I
IContingencies       I       I       I       I      I        I      I          I
I Physical           1 61.451  36.141  97.591  3.761  2.21 1 5.971    9.0   1
I Price              I 300.$21 175.261 475.881 13.551  7.95 1 21.501   33.0   l
I Subtotal           I 362.071 211.401 573.471 17.311 10.16 I 27.271  42.0   I
ITOTAL PROJECT COSTS 11052.551 599.1111651.661 59.491 33.84 1 93.331  142.0   1
IJ Includes taxes and duties.
NOTE: Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.
Table 3.3     Proiect Costs by Province 1/
Z of I
| Province   |     Rupee (million)         I      USS (million) _       Base 1
1j  LLocal  I Foreign I Total    Local J Foreign I Total I Costsl
| Federal     1 52.67 1 64.09  1 116.76 I 3.20 1  3.91  1 7.11  1 10.8 1
I Punjab      1 268.53 1 162.75  I 431.28 I 16.42 1  9.94  1 26.36  1 40.0 1
I Sind        I 144.03 I 66.26  1 210.29 I 8.80 1  4.05  1 12.85  1 19.6 1
I N.W.F.P.    I 110.23 1 49.80  1 160.03 I 6.73 1  3.04  1 9.77  1 14.8 1
IBaluchistan  | 115.02 1 44.81  1 159.83 1 7.03 1  2.74  1 9.77  1 14.8 1
I Base Cost   1 690.48 | 387.71  1 1078.19 1 42.18 1 23.68  1 65.86  1100-0 I
IContinRenciesl             I                       I       I   1  1  1
I Physical    1 61.45 1 36.14  I  97.59 1 3.76 I  2.21  1 5.97  1 9.0 1
J     .Price  | 300.62 | 175.26  1 475.88 | 13.55 |  7.95  1 21.50  | 33.0 1
Sub total    362.07 1 211.40  I 573.47 1 17.31 1 10.16  I 27.27  1 42.0 1
I TOTAL COSTS 11052.55 1 599.11  1 1651.66 1 59.49 1 33.84  1 93.33  1142.0 1
jJ  Includes taxes and duties
NOTE: Sub totals may not add to total due to rounding
3.02    Basis of Cost Estimates.  Cost estimates were calculated using the
country disbursement profile of nine (9) years. Estimated costs for civil
works are based on current unit cost for construction. Cost of construction
varies, depending on location and accessibility, from the equivalent of USS
13.00 per sq.ft. to US$ 20.00 per sq.ft. An exception to these costs is the



-19-
new vocational training center in Gawadar, Baluchistan where the cost is
equivalent to US$ 30.00 per sq.ft. These costs, however, are reasonable for
comparable Bank-assisted school construction in Pakistan as well as other
countries of the region. Costs for professional services for design and
supervision reflect the scale of fees established for similar services
provided by local consulting firms. Estimated equipment, books and vehicle
costs are products of lists reviewed during appraisal and include import
duties and taxes. Furniture and consumable material costs are based on
mission estimates and reflect current prices at the time of appraisal.
Estimated costs for additional staff salaries are based on Goreriment basic
pay scales (BPS) including standard allowances for social and other benefits.
3.03    Customs Duties and Taxes. All imported goods are subject to customs
duties and taxes. The cost of the project includes import duties and taxes
estimated at about US$ 14.70 million.
3.04    ContinRencies Allowances. Estimated project costs include physical
contingencies CUS$ 5.97 million) estimated at 10% of base costs of all physi-
cal components and at 5% for salaries and technical assistance. The
estimated project costs also include price contingencies (US$ 21.50 million)
to cover expected price escalation at the following rates. For civil works,
goods, salaries, and technical assistance; foreign cost 6.2Z in FY 1985/86,
7.OZ in 86/87, 7.3% in 87/88, 7.6Z in 88189 and 89/90, 6.0% in 90/91, and at
4.5% in 91/92 through 94195; local cost at 6.5% in F! 85/86, 8.5% in 86/87,
7.5Z in FY 87188 through FY 89/90, 6.0% in FY 90191, and 4.5% in 91/92
through FY 94/95.
3.05    Foreign ExchanRe Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
of USS$ 33.85 millions representing 36.3% of estimated total project costs,
has been calculated on the basis of estizmated foreign exchange proportions
as follows: (a) civil works 12Z; (b) furniture 12Z; (c) equipment 57%;
Cd) vehicles 53%; (e) books 20%; (f) international and regional fellowships
95Z; (g) foreign experts 85%; (h) consumable materials 25%; (i) operation and
maintenance 15%; and (j) professional architectural services 15%.
B. Financinq Plan
3.06    The total project cost of USS 93.33 million equivalent would be
financed as follows: (a) a proposed IDA credit of US$ 40.2 million equivalent
would cover 51% of total project cost net of taxes; (b) UNDP would finance
US$ 2.89 million equivalent to cover technical assistance for the vocational
and apprenticeship training components; tc) CIDA would finance US$ 6.51
million equivalent for equipment, expert services and fellowships for women s
training, and equipment only for new centers; (d) the European Economic
Community (EEC) would finance US$ 13.31 million equivalent for civil works
and equipment for new centers in NWFP and Baluchistan and all vehicles; and
(e) the Government would finance the remaining net costs of USS 15.72 million
(20Z of total net c -ts) and all taxes. Total external financing would cover
80% of total project costs net of taxes. The proposed financing plan by
category of expenditure is outlined in Table 3.4. A financing plan by
project component is shown in Annex 11.



-20-
Table 3.4:  Financinz Plan (US$ Million)
ICategory of         I        GOP      I        I      I      I      I        I
IExpenditure         | Taxes   Total    IDA  |UNDP ICIDAI  EEC  TOTAL|
ICivil Works&        t         I       I        1      l      l      l       I
I Professional Fees 1 0.54  1 4.85 1 12.50 1 -   I -            7.14 1 24.48 1
IFurniture           1 0.03  1 0.261  1.111  -   I -   1 -   1 1.371
I Equipment & Eq.             I l      l                      1 l            I
| Management Fees   1 13.64  1 13.641 20.01 1 -   I 5.691 5.85 145.19 1
IVehicles            1 0.26  1 0.261   -   1 -   I -   10.331  0.59!
IBooks               X  _    I  _   10.291-   I-   1-    10.29!
IExpert Services    1  -    I  -   I  -   11.75 10.501  -               2.251
I Fellowships        1  -    I  -   I  -   I 1.14 1 0.32 1 -   I 1.46 1
ISalaries                _    17.14 14.191-   I-    1-    111.331
IStipends            1  _    10.691                                     0 I-    I  1-10.691
IConsumable Materials[ 0.14  1 1.81 I 1.06 1 -   I -   I -   I 2.87 1
IO&M                 10.08 11.771  1.041-   I-    1-   12.811
TOTAL            1 14.70  1 30.42 1 40.20 1 2.89 1 6.51 113.31 1 93.33 1
NOTE: Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.
C. Recurrent Expenditure
3.07    When fully operational in 1995, the project would generate about Rs.
80.52 million (US$ 4.55 million) annually in recurrent costs (Annex 10, Table
2). These expenditures would represent less than one percent (0.3%) of
projected recurrent expenditures on education and training in all provinces,
but would be about 14% of projected recurrent expenditures on voca-
tional/technical training including the expenditures generated by Credit
1109-PAK (Annex 5, Table 2). As an overall average, the rate of growth and
level of recurrent expenditures on vocational training are within acceptable
limits. F"wever, in NwFP and Baluchistan, the recurrent expenditures of the
project would represent about 34% and 38Z respectively of projected total
vocational/technical training expenditures. While these rates are high, it
should be noted that in these two provinces, IDA assisted projects represent
the major public investments in vocational training, unlike Sind and Punjab
provinces where there is a much larger base of other publically financed
vocational training programs. It is expected that as fees which cover
increasing proportions of recurrent costs are introduced after 1989 (para
2.03) that the burden of the project on vocational training budgets would be
reduced.
3.08    Special Account (Revolvinu  Fund).  To ensure that project activities
are started promptly, the Goverment would open a Special Account in US
dollars at the National Bank of Pakistan with an initial deposit of US$ 2.0
million representing the estimated average amount of four months expenditure
of IDA financed items. The opening of the Special Account would be made in
accordance with Section 2.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement. Special
Accounts are not required for the Provinces because the Federal Government
would procure civil works, equipment, furniture, vehicles, books and techni-
cal assistance. The normal transfer of funds from the NTB to the PTBs
(Provincial Finance Departments) for salaries, consumable materials and other
operational costs would continue as under Credit 1109-PAK.



-21-
D. Status of Proiect Preparation
3.09    The National Training Bureau of the Ministry of Labor was
strengthened with additional staff (including a vocational trainer, procure-
ment and equipment specialist, and a civil works adviser) under Credit
1109-PAK and nov serves as a project implementation office. The PTBs have
also been constituted and have developed expertise in the management and
supervision of training. These organizations, with additional consultant
assistance have developed the proposed project to a sufficient state of
preparation.
3.10    The implementation of civil works would be phased (Annex 12 -
Implementation Schedule) and is linked to the management capacity of the
National Training Bureau, progress in the acquisition of sites, and the
capacity of consultants to prepare designs, tender documents, and supervise
construction. Sites for all new construction (31 new VTCs and 5 Women's VTCs)
have been identified. During negotiations, the Government provided an
assurance that it would acquire all land for project institutions according
to an agreed schedule (Annex 12). Nine sites, of which six are on govervment
owned land are being transferred or acquired for the first phase of the
construction program. The Bureau retained consultants (PEPAC) who have
completed the survey of the nine sites and design development. The cost of
these services which include the preparation of the tender documents for the
nine project institutions is estimated to be about US$ 70,000 and would be
financed by the proceeds of Credit 1109-PAK. The completion of construction
and tender documents for the first phase program would be completed b, July
1986 (estimated Credit Effectiveness Date). The same consultants have been
retained to prepare designs and tender documents for all remaining new con-
struction, as well as for construction supervision.
3.11    Master furniture, book and eauipment lists including outline
specifications were reviewed during appraisal, found appropriate, and are the
basis for cost estimates. The costs of equipment for the new centers were
developed only after the government conducted socio-economic surveys in the
locations of the new centers and determined the trades to be offered. The
Government has asked the ILO/EQUIPRO to procure all equipment as under Credit
1109-PAK.
3.12    Terms of Reference for technical assistance and studies have be-n
drafted. The TORs for the further strengthening and development of the NVTS,
institutional, instructor and apprenticeship training have been discussed
with GOP and UNDP/ILO, and for women's training with GOP and CIDA. A draft
UNDP project document has been prepared. A draft ILO/EQUIPRO/GOP contract
for equipment and vehicles procurement has also been developed and includes
provision for installation and ccmmissioning strengthening the procurement
capacity of the NTB and PTBs through training and the development of a com-
puterized system for stores and inventory control.
3.13    PC-ls for all Provincies and the Federal Government were reviewed by
the appraisal mission and subsequently approved by the PDWPs of the respec-
tive provinces and the CDWP of the Federal Government prior to negotiations.
These PC-ls reflect appropriate provision of resources for consumable
materials, operation and maintenance of facilities, and the additional staff



-22-
required for the operation of project institutions. ECNEC approval of the
PC-1 would be a condition of credit effectiveness. During negotiations, the
Government provided an assurance that it would appoint all additional staff
on a schedule acceptable to IDA (Annex 13). Given the status of preparation,
the capacity of the National Training Bureau and PTBs, the experience of the
consultant architects and ILO/EQUIPRO with Credit 1109-PAK, it is expected
that at credit effectiveness (July/August 1986), tendering on the first phase
construction program, equipment for existing centers, and the recruitment of
technical assistance experts can begin.
E. Implementation
3.14    The project would be implemented over a period of about 9 years.  The
NTB would be responsible for transferring funds from the National Training
Board Fund to the PTB's Provincial Funds according to the PC-1. The NTB
would maintain responsibility for the procurement of equipment through the
ILO/EQUIPRO as under Credit 1109-PAR where it was completed on time and in a
satisfactory manner. The NTB would submit withdrawal applications, maintain
project accounts, provide curricula and other software support to project
institutions, and monitor and evaluate overall project implementation and
progress. This latter activity would be conducted by the Monitoring and
Evaluation Cell of the NTB created under Credit 1109-PAK. This function
would be further developed at both the national and provincial levels.
3.15    Consultants have been used for the design and the supervision of the
civil works program of Credit 1109-PAK. The approach proved efficient for
central control and supervision by the NTB. About 70Z of construction is
completed, and the system will therefore be maintained for the proposed
project. Despite this relative success, the Federal and Provincial Govern-
ments have decided to involve the PTBs more intimately in the implementation
of the civil works as a part of the project. The PTB's would designate an
officer with architectual/engineering background to work with the NTB as
necessary in the implementation of civil works. These officers would be
directly involved in the selection of sites and the final inspection of
facilities. They will assist and advise the NTB during the schematic and
design development phases, the prequalification of -.ontractors and in the
supervision of construction. Appointment of consultants, approval of tender
documents, tendering and contract awarding will be the responsibility of the
NTB. PTB civil works officers would ensure that when designs are prepared
and works executed, the requirements of the PTBs are incorporated in accord-
ance with the design standards and specifications. The PTBs would also be
responsible for managing and supervising project institutions and programs,
maintaining project accounts, as well as developing provincial training plans
and assessing annual skilled manpower requirements as called for under the
National Training Ordinance of 1980.
F. Procurement
3.16    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.5.



-23-
Table 3.5 : Procurement Method
I                       I  US$ millions   I          I        I Total  I
I                       I ICB   I LCB    I Other  I  NA    I Cost/l1
I Civil Works           I        1 22.67  1         1         1 22.67
I       I l (11.13)
J       I1  1 7.1411       I
I Professional Fees     I        I         1 1.81   1         1  1.81  1
.1  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  1   _ _ _ _ _   1   _ _ _ _ _ _    1(1.37)  I   _  _
I Furniture             I        1  1.38  1          1        1  1.38  I
.1  I_______________________   1   ________ (1.09 )  1  1     1         1
I Equipment             I 33.51 1          1 9.11   I         1 42.62  1
.   __________________________  1    (23.14) 1  1[5.851  1    1         I
I Equipment Management  I        1         1 2.56   1         1  2.56  I
I Fees                  I        I         1(2.56)  1         1         1
I Vehicles              I        I         1 0.59   I         I  0.59  1
I                       I ____ I            t[0.331  1       1         1
I Books                 I        I         1 0.29   1         1  0.29  1
I                       .1    I________    1 ..........J  (0.29)  I  _  _
I Technical Assistance  I        I         I 3.71   1         I  3.71
I 1               I__ _ _   1   _ _ _ _ _ _   ( [3.711  1  1  1
- Consumable Materials  I        I         1 2.87   I         i  2.87  1
I  L  1    _______  I   (1.06)  1     I  _
I Incremental Expenses  I        1         1        1 14.83  1 14.83  1
I   _ _____ __   1  _____ ____ I   _____  _(5.25) _
TOTAL                33.511  24.05  120.94   | 14.83  I 93.33  1
-    IDA                I 17.451  12.22  1 5.28   1  5.25  1 40.20  1
--   OTHER DONORS       I  5.69 I  7.14  1 9.89   1           1 22.71  1
GOP               1 10.37 1  4.69  1 5.77   1  9.58  1 30.42  1
1J Include duties, taxes, and contingencies.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by
IDA. Figures in brackets are the amounts financed by other donor3.
Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.
Construction contracts (US$ 22.67 million) would be awarded on the basis of
LCB procedures. Project institutions would be grouped for tendering purposes
in packages in order to keep the number of contracts to a minimum. However,
contracts for institutions in remote areas would have to be individually
awarded. It is estimated that about 15 contracts would be awarded during the
four phase construction program. The value of contracts would vary between
USS 0.7 million and US$ 2.0 million. Contracts would include labor and
materials for all civil works, including sanitary and electrical installa-
tions. Furniture contracts (US$ 1.38 million) would be awarded on the basis
of LCB procedures. All equipment including management fee and vehicles
(US$ 45.78 million, inclusive of taxes) would be procured by ILO/EQUIPRO as
under Credit 1109-PAK. Equipment financed by IDA and CIDA (USs 23.14) would
be by ICB procedures. CIDA would finance upto a maximum US$ 5.69 million for
procurement of equipment manufactured in Canada. In case the cost of this
equipment is less than US$ 5.69 million, the balance will be used to finance
consumable materials. The equipment management fee (US$ 2.56) would be
financed by IDA. The equipment and vehicles to be financed by EEC (US$ 6.i8



-24-
million) and CIDA (USs 5.69 million) would be in accordance with their
guidelines. Books (US$ 0.29 million) would be purchased directly from pub-
lishers, distributors or book jobbers on the basis of three competitive price
quotations when feasible. Incremental expenses include US$ 2.87 million for
consumable training material which would be procured through normal commer-
cial channels. Fellowships and technical assistance financed by UNDP and
CIDA would be in accordance with their guidelines. Civil works contracts
over USS 300,000 each and furniture contracts over US$ 100,000 each would be
subject to prior IDA review which would cover about 90Z of value of works.
Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
G. Disbursements
3.17    The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a period of nine years
and is in accordance with the country disbursement profile of IDA-assisted
projects. A forecast of disbursements based on nine years is shown in Annex
14. The Credit would cover 51% of total project costs net of taxes and
finance 49% of expenditures for all civil works, 77% of expenditures for
furniture and professional fees, 100% of foreign expenditure of imported and
of ex-factory cost of locally produced equipment and books, 100% of cost of
the equipment procurement and management fees, 80% of total expenditure of
locally procured goods, and 37% of total expenditures of salaries of addi-
tional staff, consumable materials, and operation and maintenance costs.
Disbursements in respect of contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or less and
expenditures on salaries of additional staff, consumable materials and opera-
tion and maintenance for IDA financed items, would be made against statements
of expenditure, certified by the Project Director. The relevant documenta-
tion would be retained by the National Training Bureau and made available to
IDA representatives for review on request.
H. Accountinj and Auditinu
3.18    The NTB would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Separate project accounts would be prepared
by the PTBs and withdrawal applications would be supported by full documenta-
tion. IDA financed items of contracts for the equivalent of US$ 50,000 or
less would be reimbursed against statements of expenditure certified by the
Project Director. Expenditures on other items would be reimbursed in accord-
ance with the respective cofinanciers procedures. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that: (a) accounts and financial statements
of each of the Provinces and an overall statement covering the entire project
for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; (b) statements of expenditure would be maintained in
accordance with sound accounting practices, be maintained at least one year
after the completion of the audit for the fiscal year in vhich the last
withdrawal was made, and be included in the annual audit; and (c) certified
copies of the audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year,
together with the Auditors report would be furnished to IDA as soon as avail-
able, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year. The
audited accounts of Credit 1109-PAK for FYs 81-84 have been received by IDA.



-25-
IV. BENEFIT AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01    The proposed project would continue to support as under Credit
1109-PAK, the Government's strategy to expand vocational training to produce
the skilled/semi-skilled manpower for industrial, rural development, and the
replacement of workers emigrating to the Middle East. Project institutions
would accelerate the output of skilled/semi-skilled workers and this should
facilitate the implementation of development projects. An increase in the
availability of skilled workers would also increase productivity in the
industrial and manufacturing sectors by achieving a higher ratio of skilled
to unskilled workers and reduce the need for extensive and ineffective
on-the-job training. The industrial sector would also benefit from the
program for in-plant training and upgrading of unskilled workers. Finally,
an increase in skilled workers would enable the country to capitalize
(through foreign exchange remittances) on Middle East employment oppor-
tunities without disrupting domestic production, project implementation and
productivity.
4.02    In 1995 when project-financed facilities would be fully operational,
the total direct annual output from the expanded NVTS would be about 19,000
skilled and semi-skilled workers in 22 different occupations in the construc-
tion, electrical and mechanical fields (Annex 15) compared with the 5,000
output from the system in 1985 (Annex 4, Table 1).
4.03    A major benefit of the project would be the better quality of train-
ing given graduates entering the job market. The project would further
develop training standards and tests with the participation of employers
hence making training more relevant. 'rhe quality of training would be fur-
ther enhanced by funds provided under the project for consumable training
materials to foster practical rather than theoretical instruction; and
incremental staff salaries to ensure that sufficient instructors are trained
and employed. The project would also develop training programs for women in
non-traditional areas for wage employment. The acceptance of the pilot
experiment and the active involvement of employers and other community
leaders is an indication that changes of the traditional roles of women can
be achieved in Pakistan.
4.04    The project would also have significant institutional benefits.  The
creation of specialized units in the NTB and PTB for women's training and
employment, rural based vocational training, and monitoring and evaluation
would help to eusure that these programs are suitably designed, implemented
and evaluated. They would also assist Pakistan's planning capability, foster
the standardization of qualifications throughout the system and promote the
evaluation of both institutional and in-plant programs. The project would
benefit vocational training in general by strengthening training institu-
tions, through assistance to the Provincial Labor Departments in the supervi-
sion and administration of TTCs, ATCs and GVIs, and fostering links between
employers and training institutions.



-26-
Risks
4.05    Problems are possible in the implementation of the women's training
component. Despite strong support at the Federal and Provincial levels,
resistance stemming from socio-cultural traditions is likely in the villages
and small towns. Implementation of a pilot scheme located at major cities
and towns would reduce the scope of opposition. Further, surveys conducted
to determine trade areas for women-s training, indicate work situations where
acceptance would be greatest.
4.06    Another risk is the strain the expanded system is likely to place
on the management capacity of the National and Provincial Boards. To mini-
mize this risk, the project supports the training and hiring of additional
staff, the implementation of management review systems, and intensive super-
vision. These steps are likely to reduce the elements of risk.
V. AGREEMENTS RE&CHED
5.01    During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) establish advisory bodies, including representation from industry
for each new vocational training center as soon as possible but no
later than three months of its opening (paras 2.08, 2.13);
(b) enroll all new instructor recruits in training within one year of the
end of their probation (para 2.11);
Xc) introduce by March 1, 1989, a cost recovery system in UfVTS institu-
tions (para 2.17);
(d) complete the studies and review the findings with IDA by December 31,
1988 (para 2.17);
(e) introduce by March 1, 19905 a pilot program in rural apprenticeship
training (para 2.17);
(f) introduce by March 1, 1991, Level I courses in selected institutions
(para 2.17);
(g) acquire land for all new project institutions according to an agreed
schedule (para 3.10);
(h) appoint staff and uaintain all project institutions according to a
staffing plan and schedule acceptable to IDA (para 3.13);
(i) prepare and have audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
accounts and financial statements of each Province and an overall
statement covering the entire project for each fiscal year (para
3.18);



-27-
(j) maintain statements of expenditure according to sound accounting
practices, retain them for at least one year after the completion of
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was made,
and include them in the annual audit (para 3.18); and
(k) furnish certificated copies of these accounts as coon as soon as
possible but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year (para 3.18).
5.02    The following actions would have to be completed by the Government
as conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) signing of technical assistance agreements with cofinanciers (para
2.18);
(b) signing of a service contract with ILO/EQUIPRO for the procurement,
installation and commissioning of equipment (para 2.18); and
(c) ECNEC approval of the PC-I (para 3.11).
5.03    Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$ 40.2 million to the
Government of Pakistan for a term of 50 years including a ten year grace
period.



ISLAMIC BEKIO3LIC or ranirs
33083 WCCNUAL 7T69130 PMJEC
WWNARW!M macsian Iwucrfom
January 3t. 1936
cmnaI 
-     w   Im
gzvinrunuu     minucnon                                VWrnnzi        m w Ii
mmzocfl!o    mzinatwr       ADIar             wuVon                winr Om        vmcuusiu
CRI, PU             AS P38CWr    EIPUDrrUUE   L17E3*CY PRIMARY P311 t7 7236T  P313A*1    RUEz 7303    3131806K  1301806* IC CER
EALSE  POP. ChlUrA  PERCEUr GNP    3. CUITRAL AL28CXj3D TO: ROE         cmii. ISOOL         s     rS EDUWAriON  linDsay TO  33301.  sreers  aeu,1A.-
TUAE NILL. (038)   DEVTrsDTO    0 WIEOIT    11!  sEc  Hi    Cl)  uRaw   cci                 PER      AS vmmCr sinmnoAwL  3tfu           lER        tRIO
(3979) (39793     0C108  CPfOh!033              CZ)        (1916)   (1)        (Z)      LaSERt CurICaPfrA        CZ)       CZ)       niACiR      CZ)
nonofto mmIrRzzS    (13    ~(2)    (3)          (6            (5)          (6)       (7)      (a]        (9)       (30)         (13)        (12)      (333    (34)
AOSrXALI  on        6b3.870        6.34       1A.6         -                          02      lo          21                     947                   33      2.
CANiD6        83~~a    237   .63VP    7.79        in.97"     304? 3'07 23mW   qqb       1062      son        2 1       39.0?       300          92't    I3a       22.408
GRUnT" P.R.        7     61.2  12.200      4.6          9.08        -b                       -      -                                   100"m -    to  94'             12.108
NCUEULAIDS         79    36.   30.490      7.9          3.1       20   33   23       91h?     96       93         33        33..)        g-          32        I1      32.40
Nsea ZrAt.o        on     3.026  6, 001b    33SW       13.4       3 7   331  2B      9b      100       30         26        33.6        300          12        IS      23.8698
SU33DE6            79     3.3  12.250      9.0         13.2       31   10   in      qyb       99M     Ino         Ina       1u.9        too          19'       308'   36.3087
ZEasEn ARCUC
iorsirmA      *8     I.Ob    9206    6.0          22.0       43   34   22       40      [oo        77        32        10.0         40          20        21       3.30
303330            33I    6.2      235      2.3j"      39.0        63   23t  27      25        29'      35         I?       261.2         32           3n      37        3.00
COPND         8      a.bk   365       3.3'        23.0        69   29   22      69       76        40        19        -            43          36        28       0.60
DJZWIYIr          36      61.4     480     3.0         13.9       73   26.  ...    10         42       66         60       67.0          40          In       39        0.60
EYNMOlIA          SI    32.0b   3406    2.90           13.3       A5   25   20       33       A2       308        63        19.3         938         341  4             0.6 3
KINA           2     374b    A2d6    3426         20.1b      6 5   16   331    436      113        so        36        34A          3 5         I3       26        -
LLESiI            82      I4b    4353k    3.3          16.9       38   32   26       336     li3&      41         43        9.6          A1,         23       21        1.30
MUADS3C4R          77     8.3      330     6.0w        24.0       Si  23   39        so       9&b.     33         3*b        3.0         31          34       23       1I.3067
KALJN             a I     fi3b    Zjob    3.3          331.4      38   1A   23      25b       62       23         6 3        3.8         I 2          4       21        0.40
1EA3IItIIS        *3      i..0b  j. I b    6.3         341        464  36    7      mob       93        72        23        13.0        t00          9p       22        lAo0
3131616k          63      3.9b    2706    3.6         27.4        73   36   1 3     376       65       30         40        34.0          9           3       14        0.40
SnmnLzs            7    046  3.710   3.9    22.62    368 338108In-                                                25    -                -           -        -        -
SDHALA        33     4.3      230     1.5         30. 5       5ob'  "b   66b    56b      226       So        296        qO6A        s0b         326       22       3.00
SUbS              s0    19.26    3806    3.0          -           66   19   ...    32         533*      So        36         3.6          4           6       34A      ..
S31711360         83      C. 7b    sot    3.3pb        20.4       531  34   33       At6      93        SD        33        31.0         96          29       in        3.00
TANZfIA            so    18.3      240      3.9        17.7       67   10   16       70b       gab      37        63        13.61         396         3        208      13.30
BOnAu             30    3346b    3006    -             36.1-      236317206b   431            568      63         34       -             3 7          3       23        0.60
2A161             ii1   29.36    2306    7.7          26.4        -    -    30      566       71       23         30       21.0          40          I3       28        2.00
1*3131             30     3.76      46h    6.90        13.1       68   23   22    #ab         95       80         48        32.9         19          36       22        3.50
22JR3I8E!         33I    7.7b    7006   35.1           19.5       62   32    6      646&      90        35        39       20.0          33         I35       21        0.50
UtSYIW AIRICA
=Dr                79     3.Ab    3206    4.56        335.0       43   21    g    336         62       10         46       14.           3')        32       A4l        1.00
BMW.NA        83     6.5      2106    2.1'        23.7       43   29   23      9         16       23         3 7       24.3         16           3       24        0.03
CAISSON            73     8.2      590     2.'?        16.07      338  638  208   -           767      69M        jOP       I3.B         208         34?      26        3.307
C.A...             79  2.2  280  3.387   20.627   -  --   -                                   -        -          6907      -            -           -        -         0.7087
WtAD               76     6.4      120     2.4by9    21.7b        -    -    -      13         21                  7 -                    -            337Y    21        a-a0
cowm               73     1.3      670     9.08W       27.7&7     -    -    -      -          -        -           367      -            30          -        6368      4.o087
cam1               77  0.6  3.620   3.77    3.47    -  -  -   -                               -        -          4667                   -           -        3*7y  i.no8
GAMmA              77     0.6      220     3.36         6. t      46   29P  68   30b          4067     908        27'       64.79        40           ZY 176W 3 
0336A              76    3113      600     6.07        1Lt5       -    -    -      -           lz      -          2767     -             -           36637    231
083133             79      3.3     290P    6.683       -          25D  288  238   20          34       36         33        20.081       85          16       2         7.00
IVOlRY C0ASr      31      R_.26 ,7 j*oo6 3.0          63.0        33   46   13    306         60       86         63       26.0          67          19WM    26         3.9007
LIURLA            so      1.9      520     4.6         39.6       432Z326          30l        52       32         33        20.0         76          22       20        2.90
M9ALt              R1     7.06    I90      6.28       21.79       38   21   ml    10          20       60         44         5.7         66           1       it        0.9nmy
MSRflMIA           71     3.66    32b    3.5           16.9       33   63   25    j76         32       60         64          .0         30           9       23        0.37
Kiln               is      3.2     300     4.38        36.687     528  638      1   a         17        gA        ala       38.a         An           2       266       0ao?
VIEEaz             83    93.66    7606    7.47         14.0       -    -    32.6  34          93        70        36        19.5         64.7        22.5     30        2
SOeA               77     5.3     630      343        23.0        66   36   20    to          36627    --          3b7     -             20          30       23        2.2ob7
SUMISA L31E        77     3.6     23)      6.06        16.06      -     -     -    I1*        372                 33       25.06         8t          39M      22        0.G0by
TOW                is     2.4      600     6."6        28.91      308  28' 218   38           ia        an        5ahl      38.0          3z32631'    jb                I 4oby
LOUN ANERCA MD THE3 CA*23336
AISM DFA      78    273   2.230       2.7         In1.,      438  138  38N  2;36         89        52        17        -            87          33        a       23.00
ZLAneS             79     0.2   2.770      3.7        19.3        36   36   it   936          n9       97         26       -             97          75       19       -
3613600           23      0.2   2.680      3.927y    22.18        638  3L'  3648   qb        ionr      998        2?7       49.0         99"         737      207 
toua              80      5.4      35D    4.387       30.39       -    -    -      43         747      -          207      -             -           I57      -        12.W0
NMaim              79   336.3   1.770      348         4.2        31   -    36    76          7327     -          2387      4 .          4386L       197l    3687    32.626
CMax               76    10.9   3.890      3.2bY       33.06      -    -    -      -         119627    -          jab7     -             -           35*37    2067    11.9067
0101.16            s g   z267k  I.x1o      3.3         235.0      33   20   20    Sib         is       36         32        6.6          -           47       20       10.02.7
C06rA RICA         so     2.26  I:mlob    6.4         33.3        40   27   33    90          93        77        33         5.3         77          40       27       16.00
clam               73     9.8      -       8.0         33.0       -    -    -      96        1326Wy   90          l3by     -             98          73637    13       39.02b7
UcSOICAS  W.    30        5.3   1.0-30     2.9         13.0      319   21   22    14b         30       31         9          3.2         96          30       33       14.001
mCfAWR            30      3,4b  3*IjO      6.OP        36.7       4.3  31   36   S1          103       -          34        324 A66                  47       36       29.00
ECL S30*ADOI       77     6.4      940     3.6b7      23.6y       66    8   27    62          32637    32         39       -             a1          24637    2767      7.9067
GUmnuL-A           73     6.8   3,010      i.7'i       12.6b      -    -    -      -          69627    -          3 07     -             69          3*37F   3963       35370
GUYAA              76     0.8      630     6.1b7       133*336    -    -    -      -          "9ba7    -          32b7      -            -           39637    -         3.00hY
Ranl               30     06b   230       3.4'         7.9m7     43    9    a    23b         M3        20        Al        39.0        1528          64      27        0.30
UoUDuAS            73     3.6      120     3.S10      136367      628  19   198I  60          a962y    308        AJWr       2482        68e         2137     19        34107
JnAMACA           3o      231   3.l10      6.5         13.7       37   43   30    9O          90       SO         60         2.3         95          83       22        8.00
PUTSD              8o    65.3   1.8330     6.7         17.08      46  39    15    92          N8        33i                 9.5          86          73       37       30.30
81CG6A3t6          73     2.6b   6106      3.0b'       164.36        ---9 0 6b                a9       24 z       376      -             -           2662     30b      -
PMANs              78     jjb  j,gS3b    33'"7       21.67       628  1338  13    826        9 P      -          2Z        33 1.6      8BP          33367    27by    20.40b7
lARsOny            79     3.0   3.140      3.4'        16.2       62   17   20    84          83       32         23         3*jr        76          2.2      12        0.70
VWE               30    36.6   3,000       3.4        14.3        5)   13   39    80          33        73        39        9.3          39          39       22       16.407
TENUS 6703O.   77         2.3   3.910      4.g67        u.07y    43   32   20    93           Is        91        30        10.5?        49          G2       24       -
isa"               78     2.9   2.320      2.5         9.66       -    -    -      96        30s9z     -          2.6      -             -            462Ab   -        17.3087
wusnaz            78    34.6   3,640       3.17        js,,6      -    -    -      82        za6ba     -          Zs       -             -           3962x    17       23.307



-29-                                              
Jauary 31. 196
Qlr   ~         nm  E= sS     DmE Lnc   a   wru   r                               3f  3        r r33ssr rac
cdr~    ~ ~1    (2)   (3)D SW                                 (5           6    7             8         9         33          (1          3) (3
(197)   (2979   ) IEU      CPUAU              (2)       (1976    (23        (a)2   ) EE         (l~a)1      (is)        (12)1 3813)3      (4
HASr ASIA AND ?WE PACIFIC
CID1*             n 1 25ob    310b    3.1             7.1       38   AO   22     71b       77       62        25        8.0         65          35       11       4.*0
INIESIA           3    150.5b    320     2.1          9.3       70  26    6      32b      96        61        37       11.0 7o                  27       26       1.70
SDRA              82    39.3b  1.634      7.7w       20.A       36   54   31     96       93 9                         19.0                     U4       38      21.30
VSAZAYSIA         64    L5.b 1 .70b    6.1          16.7       392 43  16      7nb       97M      97        26       11.59        39          72       22       4.0
rAFUA .C.         33     3.0   3120      5.          19.0       60   17  22      -        60        73.       31       15.0         35          13D      272      1.00
ILIPPnHcS         79   68.3b   690b   Z.8           14.0      6G   36   -       7,5      H         65        31        7.3         69          53       36      23.00
SUCDAO            8 s0    2.4   4.420    2.7          6.7       39   A0   16    33        92        U2        31       83.          56          55       22       R.on
sDWUE IS7.        92     O.2b   660      6.6P        19.1b      Al  36   20      Is        78       80        27       30.5         60          20       to       Z.30
THAILAND          32    9*50b    801b    3.6         20.3       s9  16  10    39b         101       68        21        9.3           6          S6      18       4.10f
so500 ASrA
UANCLADM          79   9Z.3b      90       .3        3fl.1-7    3L 1.7  20       22b      637       -         53        5.6         -           14       21       1.43
hirAm             Bo  1.2  so  3.6    I a   --  -   30   12    -                                              -    -                            -    -    -
77rA              77  659.6    210       Z.97          .9"y     -    -    -      3.       7"Z       -         61       -             _          23x      -         3.3am
NEPAL             82    33.pb    130b    1.4        -           - -   -           19       70       -         38       -            -           21       23       3.706
PArsA             82    87d1b   380b    2.0           7.0       38  20 2         22        ID      43         30         5.         56          21       3 5      3.0n
MPc. MIDDLE HASr AND WORM AFrCA
A0nIrmW           77    15.5     -        1.7         3.7       47   to  I5    12          31b,    69         3*b      -            62           a       22nb     1.00o
ALZEMhA           79    18.3   1.770     3.8.        12.3       342  26-  Z16    35       337       490       37         7.0?       535         2-       26      3u707
amr3 82    63.36    630-    4.6'                      7.9       31   353  268    44        7s       30        36U       9.S_        83-         632      392     37.00
CREC2 C76                9.3   6.1* 0     2.62       10.64      37   26  21      -         9'by     -         2qb       6.*?        -           7ib.    217.       7J3*?
ism               79    36.9     -       3767        14.37      -    -    -      30      101      -          32-      -            -                    2     - .07
I3AQ              79    12.6   2.70      6.327        6.        -    -    -      -       100        -         24       -            -            "v    22         0.300
180.61            a1     3.4  *4*0       6.3-7       11.87      -    -    -      96       93        94        29       -            9           61       16     I3n.0
30AM              8a 2I.2b   .62         4.92       10.2       39  44   is    71b        1083      3s        32         7.2        I3          122      25     I35.0
LNS3I             79  2.Z   -    -                   18.4827  ---    -                    9_   -              19    -               -   _ 6-   -    27.806?
D3DCD             so0   19.5    760      6.3         17.39      36   66   20     28       S34       33        39       14.7          0          Z5s      21       4. SD
OnO               82     0.9b  5.920b    2.39'       12.7       -     -     -    30bt    712        65        25       -            J6          31       14
-87UCAlL          79     9.8b 2.060      3.6        22.Z        30  28   1     78         97        20        192      12.3         one         ASK      l73      3.302
30W12A            7a   22.1   2.100      3 9by        6.27       _ -    - _      S8      106hb      -         23b      -                        36b4     22b     i0.eo*6
3rSDA             76    37.0   * 920     2.U7        16.87      -    -    -      -                                      _eby  -      _9 -  -    67 7     -       24.1047
SYXrA             73     8.6   3.170     6.43        10.3       39   25  26      58       8747      3a        3sb      -            66          1by    Zb      12.60
TONSIA            79     6.    1.130      7.0v       19.0       62   39   18     62b      10oo      30        3b       12.8          30         302      30       6.00
TDoY              83     47.s i.230       3.3        16.2            Z2  24       73b     110       77        31        6.0          55        Z        11       8.00
-   A.R.          80     6a      620      5.0-       12.0       96    7   7    21'         37       12U       387      67.0         85           3       z0       3.10
.l   P.x.8.       32     2.1    A20b    7.6          9.7        632  164    -    53       61       36         25       22.06        *6          17       20       2.D0
num be    C_C                          84              93      70  69   67    61         92        68        93       65           73          91       88      es
lange:                                 (1.4-          (3.7-  (23-  (5-  (5-    (8-     (12-    (12-         l17-     ii.4-        (lo-        (1-      (8-     (0.03-
o0.n)         54.3) 96)   6)  335   "9)        119)     9)         773      67.0)         3003       84)      48)     29.03
Quaretllai tppr                          3.6          21.7     51 36    Z       Sl       9n        30        63       20           87          47       26      11.0
;;dan:                       6.0           16.1    63   28   19    3D         83       61         33       13           65         26        22       3.7
Lan.r                        3.0           11.0     38   21   13     25       60       35         28        9           60          14       lo       1.0
O(artile Dowltlon:                       1.3           5.L   6.5  7.5 *.S   21.0    13.0         22.5       7.0      5.6         23.3        16.5      3.5       5.0
lNe:                                    6.4           17.0    46   28  18        D2       76       39        36       3A           62          31       23       6.9
SCtardCl D.ewatlon:                      1.9           8.7     12  l0    7    29         27        24        11       13           27          23        7       7.6
N.dim:                                  6.0           16.0    *3   28  19        D       83        61        33       13           63          26       22       1.7
S11C0LS:                                                              Toy es:
-    DAt   WIAVALAUX                                                  A - 0A803 P0R3 TO Mgt THA                s - NJrsrRY of    C8cAr0 (DCO) ONLY
...27Uw RIL a3 NIDLCIjLz                                         a - Daum 303  RECEN Tom 3 mu 1R    T - ICE AND SrArg WVUNS ONLY
7   Dauit 5035)AL L                                                   1 - aRJfhr PRICES                         W - PUoLIC rIrcMDir    OIILT
2    ma.vou p~rng 513887 srDr                                           - 0r   ,                                   -  7 s.D    o nHSC   srIWs
7 - OWESmD 301396
SOUCSS          ColVme I an  2: world lamk Acla  or w d citSn _ector 2l d U isaime,
Cdl_mn  3 to 16:  Baln d k timcatloa aetoer eala-. Covernaant mreu- aedlor the VaeUco  tatiatlel. TY arbook.
CIqpaItI.. 0dnPlm Dm are  as_frl In the awal.salo   of wrious  wiscll  sysems ad mna_8     a3.e of relative  -t-peu of edftetloal d.wlal_ t  bht_mn yrteu-
cewtrlw. Mnomer. l_ the bhal of tCM presenc dae. cro_ -matlSa_l coarla_m should be ap,roacfmd witb grat entl.m.  Date pre_nted 1I the above c-bla h."
ben rnlleced lar.Ily by    -x alSSo   frvm uovee t _ earese: cbe remaindr are acaff aeaclsu  or date free Wea-.. Efforts be  been adc to etandrdlne
deflS  tlaa anod wItbhn  nIts., to eback the acracy of cbe data. e     ewerthela.. m_eh da arw estill Iprfect Sn _everal reapet- and the  Dach lo wSking to
lmrwe tha  progrelvely mo the dc_alm  of It2 operatIonal wor .  In the am of t_s  data. thb  follo*enil enllflcuttla ehoeld be kept ID atud:
CI)   KSnti   as defIned in tbh tabla includes all education and tralnln. bch *ormal and won-ora l.
(2)    Primry' eSducIon reform to education at the flrat lewel, and  aeconary- education refer to all *duertlo_ at thbe ecndarr level 1egardles of type
(e.g. snera,  tachalal. agricultral).
(3)   'Ltercy Mtgea  (coL 6) are ofat   obtaned fr_n contry cema_see. In mny coanirlee they are only aw.ra.Imtl_-e and It 1a doubtful that any nSIfru
defSetien off 'IStcrat' baa bken foimd c_desc-anly.
(t)   -Pblic expendtue in educatimu  coel. A  nd 5) refer. 10.11 capital aId recrrent a*ndSItnre dawaced to adecAti   by public sad quas-pebUc
(5)    Wnrollnt ratSia' Ctol. 7. 12 and 14) refer to wbnal yw _r sud are the pecanta. of eliISble children -nrelld full-im, In the eprnprice ebool.
pblic and phlwaaby level. They are Often Rbject to a   dei  arwin of error In the dr_loping cost.  incrS         _ to wrastla o  In the accurcy or basic
data (I.-. *a-epecIfIc PoPulatieS  ad _   nroIn.cr). Enrollment flrme fzuqmntm are  igher than the    I seber of students actually In acbnl.
Over-_ed otudenta my be I-clnded Is then. flitres sod con inflace cbe ratl..



-30-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM
1.      Industrial Vocational Training.  Responsibility for the administra-
tion of industrial vocational training is divided between the Federal Govern-
ment and the Provinces. At the provincial level, the Labor Departments
operate (a) Tech leal Training Centers (TTCs) and Government Vocational
Institutes (GVIs) which offer two-year full-time (Level II) and one-year or
less (Level III) courses in 22 trades; and (b) supervise about 350
industrial establishments which operate apprenticeship programs in 62 trades.
Apprentices are also given six-mouth training courses in Apprenticeship
Training Centers (ATCs). The Education Department formerly operated the GVIs
but these were handed over to the Labor Departments in 1980. The Boards of
Technical Education regulate through accreditation the large number of
private centers which make up a significant part of the manpower training
systan.
2.      The Ministry of Labor, Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis (MOL) in
conjunction with the Provinces has established a National Vocational Training
System (NVTS). Under this system, provincial institutions (TICs, GVIs, and
ATCs) are used to run courses of a duration and content which are uniform
nationally. Instructors are trained to specified standards, and curriculum
and trade tests developed by the National Training Development Institute
(NTDI) which is established in Islamabad. The Federal Government supports
the operation of these provincially located programs by financing consumable
training materials, equipment, and additional staff salaries for a specified
period and then the Provinces take over the responsibility for operation and
maintenance. Federal support is given through a National Training Board
Fund, and consultations with the Provinces, Employers and other Goverment
agencies is facilitated through a system of National and Provincial Training
Boards. The NVTS was established in 1980 under the National Training
Ordinance and supported by IDA under Credit 1109-PAK. The enrollment and
output from the system is shown in Table 1.
3.      Vocational Traininz in Rural Areas.  Several government departments
and agencies in the Provinces, such as the Agriculture Department, Technical
Education Directorate, Small Industries Corporation and Agency for Barani
Area Development are engaged in different forms of vocational training
exclusively for the benefit of the rural population. Private commercial
organizations also offer some programs in district towns. Most of these are
either informal or semi-formal in nature. While there are broad smilarities
in the trade areas offered the training content and quality vary sig-
nificantly. The standard of physical facilities, training equipment and
instructional capabilities of the teaching staff are generally lov.



-31-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.      In the Puniab, the Punjab Small Industries Corporation has estab-
lished 25 Dehi Mazdoor (rural craftsmen) Training Centers. Training is
offered in welding, auto-farm mechanics, electrical and construction trades.
The duration of training is 4-6 months, but the centers are located in inade-
quate and rented premises at sub-district small towns. The annual training
output is about 1800. A stipend of Rs 60 per month is offered to the
trainees and the training is very informal. The Agency for Barani Area
Development is operating 16 centers in Barani (rain irrigated) areas. The
trades offered are woodworking, masonry, motor-winding, welding, auto and
farm machinery and tailoring. The duration of training is 6-12 months. The
total annual capacity is about 1500 and some modest buildings have been
constructed for the training centers. Instructors are employed on a contrac-
tual basis but most lack industrial skills and experience. A stipend of Rs
100 per month is paid to the trainees. Some production/service work is also
carried out in the training centers. The Agriculture Department has estab-
lished 7 Agricultural Machinery Training Centers. The main training offered
at these centers is tractor operation and it extends for a period of 3-4
months. Tractor owners are encouraged to enroll in this program and upto 10%
of them can also enroll in an extended training program for tractor
mechanics. The annual training capacity is about 1800. Miscellaneous agen-
cies, such as The Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), Overseas
Pakistani Foundation (OPF) and Defence organizations have set up some
rural-based centers and programs for vocational training, where the training
is offered in electrical, mechanical, auto and construction trades. The
quality of training offered is better than other informal programs. Stipends
are also given, particularly in the OPF programs. The annual training
capacity is about 450. Private Institutions have also been established in
major district towns. At these institutions, relatively high fees are
charged but the standard of training is extremely low. Overall annual
capacity is about 1500 trainees. Evening extension programs are offered in
the existing Government Polytechnic Institutes and Colleges of Technology.
Most of the trainees in these progras are in-service workers and are drawn
from urban, suburban, and rural areas. The annual outut of these programs
from 10 polytechnics is about 1500.
5.      In Sind, the Sind Small Industries Corporation has established 20
Mono-trade and Technical Training Centers in rural districts. Mono-trade
Centers offer training in welding, woodworking and radio/TV repairs. Other
trade areas, such as turner, auto and farm mechanic, and electrician are
operated in the Technical Training Centers. Mono- trade training is informal
and of low quality. The Directorate of Technical Education is experimenting
with a pilot project comprising 13 village workshop schools. Tractor repairs
and welding are the two trades offered. The location of the centers is
predominantly rural and the mode of training informal. An incentive of Rs
500 is offered to a private workshop owner and a stipend of Re 100 per month
is given to each trainee. The quality of training is low, because of the
unsupervised apprenticeship arrangements. The annual training capacity is
about 260. Two Tractor Operators Training schools are functioning in the
Province. A training capacity of about 400 trainees has been created and the
duration of training is 3 months. The objective of the program is to equip
tractor owners and their dependents with machine operator skills. As in the
Punjab, opportunities of vocational training exist in the training programs
of WAPDA, OPF and other specialized agencies. The training duration is 6-9



-32-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
months and the overall capacity is about 270. Private comrercial training
centers are providing the sub-standard training in some trade areas to about
600 persons annually. Finally, the evening extension programs of Polytech-
nics enroll about 200 trainees in different trade areas. The clientele is
drawn primarily from the ranks of in-service workers.
6.      In the Northwest Frontier Province, four Agricultural Machinery
Training Institutes, where a 3-month training is offered in the field of
tractor operation have been established. The annual training capacity is
about 350. The Directorate of Technical Education has established facilities
for vocational training in 3 Vocational Training Institutes and in the eve-
ning extension programs of 3 Polytechnics, for about 200 trainees annually.
The training clientele is drawn both from urban and rural areas.
Privately-run training centers provide training opportunity for about 200
persons in major district towns.  Most of these Centers are unr-gistered and
unregulated. The quality of training is generally poor.
7.      In Baluchistan, apart from participating in a limited way in the
small number of urban-based vocational training facilities, no facilities or
programs are in operation for the exclusive benefit of the rural population.
Enrollments and output from rural based vocational training programs are
shown in Table 2.
B.      Women's TraininR.  The major responsibility for the training of women
in Pakistan rests with the Provincial Governments. Programs for women's
training fall into two categories: (a) formal training which is carried out
by the Provincial Departments of Education and Labor and Manpower, and
(b) informal training which is conducted by various government institutions,
primarily the Departments of Social Welfare, Rural Development and Local
Government and the Small Industries Corporation/Boards. Most of both
categories of programs are funded by the Women's Division, which is within
the Cabinet Secretariat of the Federal Government. The main function of
Women's Division is the formulation of policies, and the supervision of
programs which emphasize the role of women in the overall development of the
country. Social and religious customs however dictate the range and type of
programs which have so far been established for women. The status of women
in the society is elaborated in Annex 3.
9.      Formal training programs for women which lead to a certificate or
diploma are primarily the responsibility of the Department of Education
through its Polytechnics, Vocational Institutes and Teachers Training
Institutes, and one Technical Training Center operated by the Labor and
Manpover Department. The present status of these institutions are:
(a) Government Polvtechnics. There are 6 women's polytechnics in the
country: 3 in Punjab, 2 in Sind and 1 in NWFP. They provide three-year
post-secondary technical training in dressmaking/tailoring, architectural/
technical drafting, and radio/television and electronics repair trades.
(b) Government Vocational Institutes (GVIs). There are 103 Vocational
Institutes for girls which conduct training programs in handicrafts and
household skills such as sewing and cutting, embroidery, knitting, leather-
work, woodwork and food preservation. Some also conduct courses in cooking,
hairdressing, shorthand and typing. The courses last for either one year and
lead to a certificate or for two years, at the end of which a diploma is



-33-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
awarded. (c) Teachers Training Institutes. Two Teachers Training Institutes
for women have been established in PLnjab and NMIF. These institutions
provide training for teachers of the polytechnics and GVIs, as well as for
private vocational or industrial institutes. The courses normally have a
duration of between nine months and one year. Students are required to have
completed the 10th grade and the two-year course at the GVIs for admission to -
this program. (c) Technical Training Center (TTC). There is only one tech-
nical training center and it is located in the Sind Province under the
Department of Labor. The one-year program is composed of courses in elec-
tronics (radio/TV), civil/architectural drafting and domestic appliance
repair.
10.     A training program is considered informal when it is unstructured in
organization, utilizes non-standardized curriculum and is flexible in
scheduling. A large number of women receive some form of training under the
aegis of these programs. The largest number of women receive informal train-
ing througb the various programs and centers of the Social Welfare Depart-
ment. In the Puniab, 21 District Industrial Homes provide training in local
crafts such as dressmaking, embroidery, knitting, block-printing, woodwork,
crochet, and flover making. Teacher training courses are also conducted at
these centers. A total of 1,140 Local Industrial Homes provide training to
village women in areas similar to those provided by the District Industrial
Homes. Similar functions are carried out by 462 Women-s Centers. There are
also 78 Pilot Women-s Centers in the Punjab which conduct training not only
in handicrafts, but also in agriculture, health and cooperatives. In Sind
Province, there are 15 District Socio-Economic Centers which conduct training
in embroidery, garment-making, knitting, crochet, and flower making. Nine of
these centers offer business training such as typing, bookkeeping and shor-
thand. There are 187 Village (Local) Socio-Economic Centers which provide
training in similar traditional crafts. The Social Welfare Department also
provides training for its staff at an Instructors Training Institute in
Karachi. In Baluchistan Province, 25 Community Centers conduct training for
women in embroidery, sewing, knitting and mirror-work. There are also 19
Rehabilitation Centers for Women which offer training in similar crafts. In
NWPP, eighty Commmity-Sponsored Centers, conduct one-year training for women
in seving, knitting, embroidery and adult education. With the exception of
all the programs in NWFP, all other training courses for women conducted '-
the other Provincial Social Welfare Departments range from one week to nine
months duration.
11.     The Small Industries Corporation/Boards.  The Punjab Small Industries
Corporation (PSIC) operates 2 Ready-Made Garments Training Centers with
programs for designing, pattern making, and cutting and stitching. Training
in hosiery production is provided by a Hosiery and Knitting Training Center
in Faisalabad. Gabba-making, block-printing and durrie-weaving are taught at
3 Handicrafts Development Centers for Women. Training in carpet weaving is
provided by 14 Carpet Centers. The Sind Small Industries Corporation (SSIC)
manages 10 Carpet Training Centers, 2 durrie Making Centers and 1 Embroidery
Center. In Baluchistan, two (2) Vocational Centers for Women (in Quetta and
Kohat) are providing training in carpet-making and other traditional crafts
since 1958. The Small Industries Development Board (SIDB) in NWFP provides
training for women through 2 Carpet and Durrie Centers. All of the above
centers conduct their programs under training-cm-=production arrangements,



-34-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
where wcmen produce craft items while on training, and subsequently sell the
products through the SIC/SIDB marketing system.
12.     Department of Rural Develovment and Local Government.  The largest
number of centers run by this department is in NWFP. There are 482
Industrial-cum-Adult Education Centers in the province and each conducts six
months training in sewing, knitting, embroidery and adult education classes.
The Department also runs, with the support of Womenes Division, 1 National
Training Institute which provides teachers' training for day-care center
staff, industrial teachers, Council Members and social workers. In Sind,
there are 46 Community Halls providing training for women in traditional
crafts. The Agency for Barani Area Development (ABAD) operates only in
Punjab. It offers programs for women in poultry, tailoring, knitting,
embroidery and repair and maintenance of household appliances, through 11
Skills Upgrading Centers. In the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA),
there are 40 Industrial Centers which provide training for women in sewing,
knitting and embroidery. Lastly, the Department of Health operates six
Paramedical Training Centers in Punjab which run courses for dietitians, dais
and x-ray technicians. Enrollments and output from women"s tkaining programs
are shown in Table 3.



-35-
Page 6
ISLAIIC lEPUC OF PAZISTAII
SCONl VOCATIONAL TIIINIUC 1O03C
IATICOAL VOCATIONAL TRAINIC n T
TAIUZ I : ENROLLUS AMD OTPITS (October 1985)
Nlmber      Number    Level of       aumber of      Enroll-
tnstitution           of Trades   of inaeam   courses         Sbifts          ets       otput
Culberg TIC            10           814      Level 11    lot year            442        362
2nd yesr           224        184
Lavel I1     Evening           360         29f
Hghgalpare TTC          8           722      Level 11    Ist year            226        ISS
2nd year.
Level III   Evening            407         334
laltan TIC             10          732       Level 11    let year            154        126
2nd year-
Level III   Ivening            251         206
ohbin  y r fan TIC      6           518      Levl II 1      ct year           58         48
2nd year
Level III   Evening            383         314
Cujar Khaon TTC        16           730      Level 1      lot year           128         105
2nd year.
Level Ir   Evening
ATC Lottekpat           9
(Labor*)
ATC Sialkot             7          320       6 month                          79         65
ATC Islamabad             
ATC Faisalabad          7          320       6 montb      rwo sbift          185        152
ATC Ferozevala          7           200      6 mnth b                         94         77
4C GCjranvla            6          200       6 mth                           150        123
CVI ishavalpur         10           308      Level III   one shift           IIe         97
cni D.C. G  n           I           IS4_                                      45         37
cGI Faisalabhd          8           I88          _ s                          78         64
C71 Csjransala          8           Z32          _          _                104         85
CV  Csjrat              7           224                                       s o 80     66
CVI Jubarabad           6          208           _          _                 63         52
Cn   ba                 3           18           _          _                 84         69
CGI Jbelo               5           180                                       s 0o       66
CV! 4eva 1              a          232           _          _                105         36
cn Halt=                6           190          _                            85         70
CTI Sahival             7          208           _          _                127        104
M Sargoda               6          240                      -                 94         77
C- I Sbeikbupnrs        7           232          _          _                 91         77
TOrAL PUNJA                      7-370                                     *.298      3 526
2.  511 
TIC Kotri               8           628      Lvel 11    lot .-sr             385        316
2t  -*ar            31         32
Lerel III   Enc.ng
TIC Xaracbi             9          660       Level 11    lct year            386        316
2nd year.          172        141
Arc   111 LeveninL
ATC Lacndhi            13                    6 month     Tw  *hift
TIC  5r                              40      Lel III                          is         15
Leve  t11   Evening shift
AC Hyderabad            8                    6 nontb      Ton  bift
ATC Krachi              6                    6 month      Too shift
TOMAL   STInD                    1 38_                                                  S
3. VW.V.?P?
TIC PeshAvar            9           530      Levl 11    lot year             301        247
2nd year           1!S         97
Level III   Evning
ATC Harden              a                    6 montb      2 ahift
ATC C-la-bt             7           174      6 month      2 shift            173        142
TC D. 1. Zhbn           9           206      Level 1      lat year            82         67
2nd year            71         58
Level III   Evening
TTC hingora             8           192      Level 11    lt year              82         67
2nd year.           56          6
Level II    vmening
TOrAL W.V.F.P.                    .L102                                      flj        724
4. BNLLUCMTAN
TIC Quetta             10                    Levl III   murning
Leval III   evening
TIC  aindar             7                    Leve  III   morning
Level III    rening
TOTAL EALUUTlAI
N     UIIAL TTAL                 9.800                                     6.180      5.070



-36-
A=2
Page 7
ISLAJIC REI LIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONIL TRAINING PIROJECT
RURAL 1CTIONAL TRAINING
TABLE 2  hANUAL ENROLLMETS AND OllPIUT FROM MSTING PROCRAMS   Y PROVINCE
Punjab              Sind                 NIFP           Baluchistan
Depart eLnt/Agency     Tnetitutiov  _
Enrollment Output Enrollment Output Enrollment Output Enollment Output
Depatme_            __gnc  _n                                      _____o   ___          ___    _     __I
Small Industries     Mono-trade/          2.000     1.860       700      650             -        -               -
Corporation (SIC)   Technical Training
Centers
Technical Education -Village Workshop       850       790        350      330      220       190        40        30
Department          Schools
-Evening shift of
Polytechnics
-Vocational Centers
Agriculture/         Tractor Operator    1,920      1,850        400      360      350       310       _
Cooperative Dept.   Training Schools
Agency for larani    Technical Training   1.500     1,450         -       -          -        -        _
Areas Dewelopment   Centers
(ABD)
miscellaneous
AgencieslOrganiza-  Training Centers       450       410        270      210      180       150        50        30
tious: OPF, WAPDA
Defence, etc.
Private-run Ciner-  Training Centers    1.500       1.460       600      560       200       15O       120        90
cm l Organizations
8,200    7,820      2.320    2.110       950       800      210       150



-37-
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Pg C7
more  iTnu c              er
2A2hg 3   1Mh         2      A    UPt3   0W
Pj  d     h      lualsth                      mm         r         AM                   Tota
Trias  1stityto       _?5a             ' _                                                             -  .                                             _.                 -
Xurlet   Output    eluw    m_t put   farllu_e Output   3ae11et   OsCPe   mo1maeut I Otpt   muloIIt   Outpt
A. Ikrtsut  f Ucallm
_ ov e_wut Dalytubcank                    372          372       1S3          1_               -                122          27                              44          549
- C_ot. Votiel Institutes               3.000        2.10        900          700       130         ISO         4e         30                              4.430      3.340
T_ecbrs' Traising Zmatitcs               200          200        20           20        -                        9           9                              229        229
B. Directot?at of Techeical
ducati_ rfan)
- Isutrial C'aters                                                                                                                                           N _  _  _  _  _  ee      O
C.  _evartowt of locial Wuefare
- District ludeatrial - 6
(_Smatuar                           4.323       4.300         -           - _  _     _           _                                                    4.329       4.300
- Lo*al Idatriel _-w.                  34.200       34.200        --34.200                                                                                           34.200
- Lol Ira-. Casters                    13.80        13.0          _            _         _           _           _           _                            13.60    I3Ue
- Pilot     ns Cot                       .0          1.140         _           _            _        _           _                                         1.140      1.140
- ard  pilot Wamsa Centers             1.200        1.200                                                                                                 I       --1.20  1.200
- oCity Spogoord Costa r                        -           -                  -         -           -        2.000       2.000                            2.000      2.000
-1aatrho     Tralsiug  Castor             -            -         2_           200        -           -           -                                           200        2
- Socio-Scosdc Cste                       -            -       4.0e0        0.000        -           -           -           _                             4.000      4.040
- Iaioatrial C_uter. fer S                -            -          -            -        730         730          -           _                               730        730
- Rbbilitstlo  C_tua for
Fowles                               -            -          -           -         37o         s70          -          -                                370        570
e.    11 tuiseryiee Coi.or.tiouo-d
- led-med* CG tma- Traini g
CMers                                 50           44        20           20                          -                                                  l       e  64
- _omi,   & Emitting  Dralaa 
Caster                                21           21        _     -           -               _            _-                                           21         21
-  sicraft Dele  _e Cascar                 54           56        -            -         so           e          _           _                               134        13
i     Caet Caster.                        120          120       475          473       so3         o00          _                                         1.295      1.23
:  -  uoLduy Cter                                      _ -                     so                          -                 -                                so         so
-wris3Makin Center                       -            -          3            36                   -            40          24                               73         32
_- KWm scatiesal Caster                   -            -          -            -         so          30           e          -                                so          0
I raisimg Ioetitot. fer
Teahers is Carpet Seaing            -            -          -            -         50          so                                                       so         so
LDermt of Leo
T acshuical irsiag Center                 -            -          40           54        -          -            -          -                                 40         54
.    Dpat   of mor.l Daulopuat
-  udeetrial  nAdlt tceatia.                    -           -           -           -               -        12_300     I2.030                            12.300      12.030
- letioue  Trebiag Wastitute              -            -          -            -         -           -           25         25                                25          25
- lemee-geeraion cm
j   ecaiae   Traing               17.434      14.000      1.225       1.Z2          -          -       ot Yet    Nbt "uC                             17.430      14.000
- Local cov9ermt                                                                                          o_eratic..  0pore-                               1.25        1.225
- Lod.I Cotewrst                                                                                                        tie_1
- Commitd7 talls                          -            -          -
- _   tL-pexrps   Castors                 -            -       1.750        1.750        _                             -                                   1.730       1.730
C. Staff Cdlfur OrgsLaatioe_
-  eor1rial T       raig
C_ter far _oi                        125           70        40          30         -                       20         15                               1.5         11
IL Agency for Nate.! Are.,
-   -ee  Tralmieg Casters                 754          730        -            -         -           -           -                                           75 
I. DerMut of gaLcB
-  r    icel  Etaff Training
ltsg-.                               120         120         20          20         20         20           -          -                                Ie         ISO
TOTAL                     76.975      74.553    11.234       11.020      2.170      2.170       14.914      14.332       m         -       100 .100       10.27
T4NL                         .            -    ____ er f b   b  - t_ _ Fe  1r....c.. s                                             _       I.ities
:          -otut  as  reprt. fashe  by the Fuerel ashPrvicl aetbort.



-38-
AXNNEX 3
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STATUS OF WOM0! IN PAKISTAN
1.      In 1981 Pakistan-s population was estimated at 83.8 million with an
annual growth rate of about 3Z. Approximately 72% of the population lives in
rural areas. While 47% the population is female, only 7.8% (3.34 million)
participate in the labor force.
2.      Relisious Influence.  Pakistan was established as a nation state in
1947. One factor which affected its formation was the difference in
religious philosophies and social customs between Muslims and Hindus. While
the differences sre still manifest, the fact that these religions co-existed
for many centuries has resulted in customs, traditions, attitudes and beliefs
being deeply influenced by each other. This has contributed at least in part
to the present status of Pakistani women who currently exercise fewer rights
than permitted by the Qur'an.  This can be seen in the tradition of caste or
class which dictates choice of husband, opportunity for education and/or
occupation and social interaction. A Pakistani woman is supposed to have
full legal rights and be independent in every respect. In practice however,
she is often kept in ignorance of these rights and socially constrained from
exercising them in such areas as inheritance, marriage and divorce.
3.      Famill.  Although the Qur'an makes no distinctions between male and
female children, in practice boys are highly valued, while girls are less
favorably regarded. As a part of their upbringing, girls are taught that it
is their duty to sacrifice for their brothers, and this results in females
accepting and promoting the idea-that boys are superior and deserve preferen-
tial treatment in all areas of life. For example, access to food, education,
medical treatment, etc. by a female always comes after provision has been
made for the males in the family.
4.      Narriage.  The obligation of all muslims to marry and the fact that
the girls' contribution to the family income is not usually recognized (i.e.,
domestic and farm labor is not normally rewarded in cash and, therefore, not
seen as income generation), has meant that early marriage is sought, and is
now an entrenched part of rural society. The average age at marriage for
females is about 16.5 years. The average age of marriage has been rising in
Pakistan, particularly in urban areas, and for girls who have completed
formal schooling. Unmarried women most often remain in the family home, and
contribute their labor to the family group.
5<      At the time of marriage, the young woman moves to the husband's
family home where her mother-in-law is the dominant personality. As the
newest member of the family, the young wife's personal status is low and she



-39-
ANNEM 3
Page 2
is very dependent on the relationship with the mother-in-law. In fact, her
status is enhanced by sons and she will endeavor to secure her situation and
her old age by giving birth to many sons. Althougp the extended family model
does provide a form of child support for a working mother, the custom has
been for the young educated wife to discontinue a professional career after
the birth of a child. To return to work would lower the family status, and
this attitude is still prevalent in even the most urbanized families. Tradi-
tional family members, especially mothers/mothers-in-law, still have the
power to affect the decision of a young mother to work outside of the home.
6.      Purdah.  The observance of purdah, which regulates the separation of
the sexes and confines vomen to family life, affects employment opportunities
for Pakistani women. Among urbanized families where daughters are educated,
purdah is not practised. In poor agricultural-based families, few women are
in purdah. However, its observance is a desirable status symbol which sig-
nifies that the husband is a capable provider and can afford to hire someone
to perform the activities outside of the home which would normally require a
woman.
7.      Purdah as practised, has resulted in the development of a sex
segregated education system at all levels except university. The separation
is justified on the grounds that families feel safer when they send their
girls to all-girl schools vith anly female teachers. In the foreseeable
future, Pakistan will continue to segregate its women in education and to
some extent also in employment. A preferred work situation is one in which
only women are employed. Increasingly, however, it is acceptable for several
women to be employed as a group.
8.      Education.  The overall literacy rate in Pakistan is one of the
lowest in the world. Only one-quarter of primary aged girls even enroll in
school and the proportion of those who drop out before functional literacy is
achieved is at least 50% of the entering group   For the rural population
only 3% of the female children enroll in primary school and of these 80% drop
out before reaching Grade 7. Variations in literacy rates exist between the
Provinces. Rural people have literacy rates much 'Lower than their urban
counterparts; about 15% compared to 44Z. In Sind, urban female literacy is
35Z, while the rural rate is about 3Z. Corresponding figures for Baluchistan
are: urban, 221; rural, 2Z; WFP urban, 22%; rural, 4S; and Punjab urban,
331; rural, 8Z. The 1981 census showed that 45% of the population with a
school education have a primary school education (30% of them women), 24%
(26%) have an intermediate school education, 192 (24%) have completed
matriculation, 5.5% (26.9%) have an "intermediate qualification," 3.7%
(26.5%) a baccalaureate, and 1% (24.61) a masters. Most of the women in this
group do not have vocational skill' and are either underemployed or
unemployed as a result.
9.      EmDlovment.  The number of gainfully employed women in Pakistan is
3.34 million out of a total female labor force of 27.4 million. This,
hovever, does not adequately reflect the work that women actually do.
Housewives and unpaid family helpers in agriculture, and the urban domestic
industrial sectors are all excluded from the statistical base. The 3.34
million figure does indicate some penetration of women in the labor market
over a cross-section of occupational groups including the teaching, medicine,



-40-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
social work, textile producing occupations, retail sales, domestic-oriented
occupations, and hotel/restaurant service. This employment pattern is an
encouraging indicator that women can gain access to an increasing number of
occupations in non-traditional areas, as well as increase their numbers in
the traditional areas in which they are currently working.
10.     Socio-Economic Class.  In Pakistan, broad socio-economic classes such
as the civil servants, business, landlords, and the armed forces represent
only a small fraction of the total urban population. The women in these
groups are generally well-educated at private schools and enjoy a previleged
life style. They do not take up employment whicb has a low social recogni-
tion and esteem in their classes. For the few who opt to work, medicine and
university or college teaching are the preferred jobs. These women generally
do not observe purdah. Most become involved in social work and related
voluntary activities. The women of the landlord class are an exception,
because they usually do not receive much education and observe purdah, but
experience a wealthy, servant-supported life style in common with the others.
The remainder of the urban population comprises small business owners, iunior
government officials and a majority of laborers and unemployed dependents.
11.     The rural areas have a different class structure and can be divided
into landowner-self-cultivators, limited landowners and tenants, kameens and
craftsmen, and laborers. In rare cases, the female children of these groups
attend school, and then only in the primary grades. These are conservative
families where women are expected to help with agricultural activities. If
they observe purdab, it is only when they leave their own household to visit
relatives, shop, or for medical reasons. The women of the kameens/craftsmen
tend to perform domestic duties in the houses of the land-owners and cul-
tivators. The workday for these women averages about fifteen hours per day.
Many women of this class are turning to handicraft-related and other occupa-
tions in order to generate additional income for their families.
12.     The status of women of the urban laborer groups is similar to that of
rural women. The difference for the urban group is their access to elec-
tricity, running water, and the likelihood that they would receive cash
income rather than 'kind." This particular urban group represents about
15-20% of the urban population and will be the main target group for voca-
tional training programs. The women from these classes do not have permanent
employment outside the home, but are involved in income-saving activities in
the household. The girls from these classes no longer acquire education
merely as a status symbol. Instead, wage employment is the major objective
and the possibility of contributing to the family income, a long-term goal.



-41-
ANNEX 3
Page 4
13.     Women and Employment.  Prospects for Pakistani women in employment
should be viewed against this background. Slowly, the role of the woman is
growing from the narrow definition of wife-mother-housekeeper, although much
of her activities is still being decided by tradition. Class origin,
religious attitudes and/or individual attitudes and habits within families
continue to determine whether women can have an education and ultimately,
whether they can seek employment. The situation today is that more girls are
receiving school education and more are being gainfully employed.
14.     Though the numbers involved in this change are small, the trend is
positive. The development of role models is an important aspect of this
change. Recent creation of legislative positions for women in both national
and provincial governments is a favorable beginning for such models. Ten
special seats are reserved in the National Assembly. Similarly, in the
Provincial Assembly, 5% of the seats are reserved for women. Even at the
local level, council seats have been reserved for women. Projections were
for the nomination of over 3,000 women councillors. However, 433 had
actually been appointed in 1981. This momentum has been further strengthened
by the establishment of the Women's Divisicn within the Cabinet Ministry and
its subsequent work in developing an awareness and acceptance of both the
changes and the need for further changes. Successful women in government,
health care, and business are models which can encourage Pakistan's women to
believe in their ability to participate in the country's development.
15.     It is largely in the less well-off mi.'dle classes that the rigidity
of traditional custom is being broken. Increasingly, the need for additional
iucome is creating the situation in Pakistan where women must be employed for
the family to survive. This is particularly true for widowed or divorced
families, in families where the male is ill, under or unemployed, or where
there are too few male children to contribute to the family earnings.
Research indicates that the lower the family income, the lower the standard
of formal education, the more common the incidence of female wage employment.
16.     There is a greater demand by women for education and jobs that can be
met by current opportunities. The provision of vocational training oppor-
tunities coupled with a focus on the employers' needs and attitudes, and a
support system for encouraging and assisting women in the workplace can do
much to move the women of Pakistan towards greater participation in an
Islamic society.



-42-
SEOD YCA?IOVAL TuINIc PROn!
TAaB  1:  Estiatd  anaIl Renewer eiremnts. 1953-193
I              I          1               tI  Additioal Mnpoer Requiremets by Ctegory                 --
Lewel of employment   I Jthted    I              I Prefe       Adiis-
1932-1953 If          I Mnpwer       I Avere  I   nal          etrative     Clerical             Smi-
Percentage   I Requirements I Anual   I ad            nd           and        Skilled    killed     Unebill e   Service
Sector                  fluter   Diatributio   I"3  2P . I  nreas e ITechnical    anmeeriel  Sale.              Mvrktrm   Vorkere      Voerke"    -fUg
Agric.. Forestry                                I              I          I
Nunting S Fisbing   13.283.000    52.73      1 17.015.000   1 373.200  I    370         750        1.160       20.700    153.700     192 eO       *.060
Ranf.. Mining                                   I              I          I
A Quarrying          3.412.000    13.54       I 4.370.000   I 95.30   I  1.510       2.450        6,360       19.660     39.990      24.760      1,070
Electricity.                                   I               I          I
Ges a water            235.000     1.13      1   365,000   18.000 e           203       208        106S5          720      2,970       2,515        310
Contruction            1,209,000     4.30       I 1.548l,00   1 33.9S0  1    315          490           510       3.560     15.195      13.030        380
Trade 4 Coeerce        3.008.000    11.94       1 3.853.200   I 34.520  t  9,90         7.330       24,670          640      1.030       3.940     37.020
Transport . Storage                                            I          I
& Cosnnications      1.156,000     4.59      1  1.481.000   1 32.500  I  2l510          930        9.900        S.450        470       3.440      6.750
Services               2.839 200    11.27      1 3.637.000   1 79JS00  1  9-265    7.230            23J.20          57         950       .4L .825
I              I          1                                    I                   I_
ALL. SECTOKS          25.192.000   100.00       I32.270.000   I707.800  I24.570    19.440           6.585    I 54.300    214.305 I  243 .885       S4.415
1   a hr: Pakintas Labor recce Surve. 1932-83.
1  Appraisul1 Mision estimates.
Asemptios:
(a) Relative flares hr Occation
Notese-    ASminis-
sional e     trative     Clerical
and         and          and        Skilled   Smi-skilled   Uoskilled   Service
Thcbnic l  ma aagri l   Sol es       wera Vork                Vakerv      worka
Agric.             - 9010      .0020        .0031       .0554      .411         .5157       .0108
Nuf. . Mining    .0158         .0256        .0364       .2052      .4175         .2584       .0112
Utilities          .0261       .0261        .1330       .0899      .3714         .3144       .0391
Construction       .0240       .01"          .0149      .1048      .4472         .3835       .0112
Trade & Cenrce   .1170         .0867         .2919      .0076      .0122         .0467       .4380
Trmp. 4
Coication    .0773           .0301        .30"        .2601      .0147         .1061       .2073
Services           .1161       .0906        .2910       .0071      .0119         .0469       .434
lb) fEploment *anna growth rates: agriculture (2.95). manufacturing and mining (3.62). conastruction (2.8Z) and trade  nd commerce (4.431.
(e) Annual attrition rate:  1.5S
TANZ 2 : PROflOTI  or AOF RL Dw= FOE PAKIsTASI sILuED Au Sufi-SELLD LamO 1M TIM MIDDLE MST [I
I   Annual Returning Migrate from the    I   Net Annual Demand for Pakiata
A1nnl Plow to the Middle Sast        I Middle-East                              ,I abor   h te  iddla-East
-   I                 I Production Verkers    I                   I Proodution Markers    I                  I Production Markers
I     Total           I Skilled  Smi-Skilled I  Total             I ktilled  Semi-Skilled I  Toal            I Skiled  Sai-Skillsd
yers I   (All Catesories) I Wfksrs workers           I (All Catesories) IW Markers w    r        I (All Cateories) I Workers Vorkere
I                     I                       I                   I                       I                  I
1983  1    119.660          1 65.155    54.505       1    S6.110        1 46.SS0   39.230       I  33.550           1  83.260    15.290
1957  I    156.650          I S5.295    71.355       I    96.350        1 52.460   43.390       1  60.300           I 32.830    27.470
1990  1     170O.O0         I 92.590    77.47O       1   103.S00        1 56.520   47.2U0           66.260          1 36.100    30.160
!995  I    136.340          i 101.640    85.2W       I   113.100        I 61.100   52.000        I  73.740          I 39.820    33.920
/J  This table is baseD  n the projections me" by the AETE?.
List of miar atestions:  (a) The fntnre densd for exatriate wrkers in the Middle East couetries will dopend upon the growtb
of tbhse economies. The average a1nal growth rates, adopted from the World Development Report 1983
(World Rank), r 1.7? (1lso-82). 4.0Z (1982-85). and 5.3Z (1985-95); (b) toloment elasticities
of deand for expatriate labor:  Sudi Arabia (0.92), Sabrain (0.96). Qatar (0.7). IUR (0.75) and
Euwit (0.43): (c) The shae of Pakistani labor in the Middle last is 19.2Z. and will rain unchanged;
(d) The annual rate of migrent return wld be I.3S and will reain cegatant until 1990.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
-43-
TABLE 3 : SUPPLY OF SKILLED AND SEMI-SKILL   MANPOWER. 1984 AND 1995
1984                                1995
Source                        Skilled    Semi-Skilled I          I Skilled    Semi-Skilled I
Manpover  Manower       I Total  I Manpower  Manpower        I Total
1.   National Vocational Trg. System      3.180        3,320      1  6,500 1 7,760         11,640     1 19,400
2.   Other Public Agencies j/             7.410      111.440      I 117,850 | 8,500       116.230     1 124.730
3.   Private Institutions fJ                -         20.000      | 20.000 1   -           30.000     1 30.000
4.   Apprenticeship Program               1,110          -        I  1.100 1 2.700            -       I  2,700
5.    Informal System.2/                  3.000        7.600      1 10,600 | 4,000         11.000     1 15.000
6.    Returning Migrants ,                9,310       10 580      | 19.890 | 14.240        11890      1 26,130
TOTAL-                                 24,010      151.940      1 175,950 1 37,200      180,760     1 217,960
Source: Provincial Training Boards. ARTEP (1984) Report, lIII and Boards of Tccnical Education.
Ij These include the various Provincial Departments of Social Welfare, Education. Technical Education,
Rural Development and Local Government, Health, the Provincial Small Industries Corporations/Boards.
and the Overseas Pakistanis Foundation.
i  Based on information gatbered from the Boards of Technical Education (Sind and Punjab).
if Based on information gatbered from the 11NT and the Provincial Training Boards.
U sed on Survey by the Overseas Pakistanis Foundation in 1983 vhich reports that over 60% of returning
migrants interviewed upon return intended to move into business and rrading activities and about 15%
wanted to go into the agricultural sector. Since 78.99Z of those returning are production wvorkers, these
results show that most returnees rather than go back to their original skills vould rather go
elsewhere. Results of a PIDE study show that 23.12 of skilled and semi-skilled returnees do the jobs
comensurate vith their skill classification vhile 13.8Z are still looking for the job. In turn. 602
of the 13.8S are still looking for vork which can offer higher wages. For our pu; oses. therefore, we
take 23.1. as the percentage of returnee skilled and semi-skilled workers who do skilled and
semi-skilled jobs.
TABLE 4: DEMAND ARD SUPPLY :995
I  __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ 1995I
Annual Demand           I          SuDD1V l                     Deficit
I Training     Returning              I Demand
Catenory       I Domestic   External  Total  |  System        Ninrants  1,  Total  I -SUnp
Skilled        I  54,300    39,820    94,120 1  22,960         14,240        37,200 1 56,920
I                              I                                     I
Semi-skilled   1 214,600    33,920   248,520 1 168.870         11,890       180,760 1 67,760
TOTIL  -         268,900    73,740   342,640 1 191.830        26,130       217,960 1 124,680
jj  Estimate based onDARTEP Study (1984).
Sources: (a) Provincial Training Boards.
tb) Appraisal Mission estimates.



-44-
AXIX 5
ISMIUC m    LC  or PU IT                                     Page I
sWm   VOCTIOAL IRIRIG PJECT
Table I   UDITU   ON ROTITWAL TRAI S      G 1983-1984
Puiab                Sind            Baluchistan        ...P.           All PiVie
1983     1934       1983      1934      19U3   1954    1983   1984          1983      1954
1. Recurxet Expenditure on         2,537.60  2.915.60   1.143.20  1,260.90   245.30  295.4   779.84  968.38  I 4.705.94  5,440.30
Education  d Training 
2. Recurrent Expenditure an          116.20   152.63      67.60     90.41    16.60   17.36   21.94   19.88  t   222.44    280.28
VocatioualtTecbmical Training
3. Recurrent xpmnditure on             1.13      1.40      1.55      1.93     0.97    0.87    0.63    0.50  1      1.12      1.30
VecfTcch Training as a
Proportion of Total Reu.                                                                                1
xpenditure                                                                                              I
4. Recurrnt ZEpenditure on             4.58      5.23      5.94      7.17     6.77    5.58    2.77    2.05  1      4.73      5.15
VoctTecb Training as a
Proportion of Total Recrt                                                                               I
zxpenditure on EdcuTrraining 
5. Recurrent Ezpenitue an Vocl         1.2S      1.57      1.61      2.13     0.88    0.84    0.71    0.58  1      1.22      1.4
Tech Training as a Proportin                                                                            I
of Total Revenue Receipts                                                                               I
So : Proincial Training Boards.
TABLE 2 : A3333 3ECU133IT STI'38DITURES VEi THE PRWJEC  RECtRIE PUI  OPERATIONAL, 1994195
(mlillions. R.)
Punjab        Sind       aluchistan   lV.F.p.   All Ptovince.
1. Public Recurent Expenditure        2,915.60     1,260.90       295.46       968.38      5.440.00
on  Eduction  nd Training (1984)
2. Projected Reurrent Expenditure  13,022.00       4,297.00     1,101.00    3,925.00      24,340.00
on Education and Training,
1995. LA
3. Public Recurrent Expenditure         152.63        90.41        17.36        19.88        280.28
on VocationaltTecbnical
Training (1984)
4. Projected Recurret Expenditure       303.73       179.92        34.55        39.56         557.76
on Vocational/Technical Training.
1995 L
5. Annual Recurret Expenditures          34.62        19.18        13.27        13.55         80.52
as a Resnlt of the Project in 1995
6. Anna Recurret Expenditure of          11 A.        10.60       138.40        34.25          14.43
the Project in 1995 as a proportion
of projected recurrent expenditure
on vocational training in 1995.
(5 - 4)
7. Annual Recurent Expenditure in 1995  0.08           0.24         1.20         0.34          0.33
as a proportion of projected
recurrent expenditure on edcation/
training in 1995. (5 - 2)
Soe   (1) Provincial Training Boards.
(2) Project Appraisal Working Papers
La Projection Assumption: The historical e  unl growth rates in ependiture attained over
the 1975/76 - 1982U83 period will be maintained, via. Baluchistan 15S ,IP and Pu1-
jab 16S. ed *ind 1D.
Lk Or the 197944 period, recurrent ezpenditure on vocationalltechnical training
experienced an anual growth rate of almost 212. This is largely explained by the
creation and implementation of the Kational Vocational Training Syste  finane_d undr
the first IDA-assisted vocational training project (Cr.1109). Ilwevr, as the impl_mn-
tation of thin project Orn to its completion, it is gected that vocationel/technicel
education expeditures wld grmo at a lowr  _anl rcat of about 9U. Recurrent expen-
ditures for the year 195 ae estimated on this basis.



-                          r
1:
I 0~~~~~~~~~~ 
32 ;S ~------@-------- -
I 00          0~I 
-   --  - -~ -i-I- -
it    *a- - - - - -'I                          s      1
IN]   Io        s  o                  ReSR.           IX
    ~~~--          ------          - - -
,I  ; n S g4! 5    R
I        -    I                   1 -    t.
I        .s   2u    "21F     
-LllWu         gfiJ3i !               r i     -:"
low..~                                       *
* 
L4---------------
'p,



-46-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
ORGANIZAIION OF THE MANAGEMENT INFORKATION. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
SYSTEM IN THE NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT: CR1109-PAZ
1. INTRODUCTION
1.      The purpose of the monitoring and evaluation system is to improve the
design and implementation of the national vocational training project (NVTP).
The use of evaluation results is designed to (a) provide timely information
on project progress; (b) provide an analysis of events to allow adjustment in
activities; and (c) ensure that decisions are based on relevant information.
2. THE NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
A. Secretariat of the National Training Board (NTB)
2.01    A national vocational training management system was established by
the Manpower Ordinance of March 1980. The system comprises the ITB, four
PTBs and the NDTI. The NTB is chaired by the Federal Minister of Labour and
Manpower and includes four representatives from federal ministries.
2.02    The provinces are also represented on the Board by Additional Chief
Secretaries (Deveiopment) and the Secretaries of various Departments. Four
representatives from employers and workers organizations, each province
having one representative, are also included in the Board. The NTE is
responsible for preparing regulations and legislation pertaining to training,
formulation of national vrlicies, approval of training plans and recommending
allocations of financial resources. It is also responsible for evaluating
existing curricula and performance, approving new curricula, national skill
standards and tests, and curtailing ineffective programs. Decisions of the
NTB are channelled to the PTBs for implementation.
B. Provincial Traininu Boards (PTBs)
2.03    Under the Manpower Ordinance, the PTBs are similarly constituted as
the NTB but with the Provincial Secretary of Labour acting as Chairman. The
PTBs are responsible for approving training schemes and recommending them to
the MTB for financing. The Provincial Departmenus act as Secretariats to the
PTBs and are responsible for executing the approved training, organizing
trade testing and in-plant advisory services, assessing training needs and
preparing provincial training plans.



-47-
ANNEX 6
Page 2
C. National Trainin2 Bureau
2.04    The National Training Bureau, vhich is an attached department of the
Ministry of Labour and Manpower is the Secretariat of the NTB. The Bureau
consists of four branches, i.e. construction and equipment procurement,
personnel, finance, and trade standards. The Secretariat assists the NTB in
carrying out its functions.
D. National Traininx Development Institute (NTDI)
2.05    The NTB and PTBs are assisted by the NTDI. The Institute carries out
jobs analysis, curriculum development, training material design and produc-
tion, skill standard setting and the evaluation of training methodology and
delivery systems. It organizes courses for senior staff of training centers
and company training personnel. The NTDI is headed by a Director and con-
sists of five departments, i.e., occupational analysis and curriculum
developments, trade testing, staff training materials developments; and
research and evaluation. Charts 1 & 2 shows the relationships of these
organizations and institutions.
3. THE MANAGCEET INFORMATION SYSTEM
3.01    The Information System primarily collects and processes data required
to update project management. The main components to the MIS are; (a) data
vhich reflects the production Process of skilled and semi-skilled manpower,
specificially data on enrollment, output and cost by program; (b) a framework
for svstematizing the data i.e. an analysis of (i) labour market for
graduates from the different vocational training institutions, (ii) the
employability of graduates, (iii) shortages and oversupply of skilled and
semi-skilled manpower, and (iv) estizated rates of return; and (c) a manane-
ment system which allows project managers to take actions to correct devia-
tions from targeted outputs.
3.02    The basic information utilized for decision-making are; (a) statis-
tics on training capacity, (b) the flow of trainees, (e) the stock and
employment of trainees, and (d) statistics on the demand of trainees of a
selected group of industrial trades, for which training is being provided.
A. STATISTICS ON THE TRAINING CAPACITY
3.03    The available capacity for vocational training is determined by (a)
the present training capacity from the available number of workshops and
classroom places for specific trades in each training institutions; (b)
whether that capacity being fully utilized, and (c) the relationship between
costr and capacity.
3.04    The following statistics are collected annually by questionnaires
which are sent to every participating vocational training institution. (a)
Capital Costs: Ci) total construction costs of each workshop, (ii) total



-48-
ANNEX 6
Page 3
classroom construction costs and classroom area, (iii) total approximate
costs of the land being used by the institutions, (iv) construction cost per
unit of workshop, and (v) construction cost per unit of classroom area; (b)
Recurrent Costs: CM) salaries of teachers and instructors, (ii) salaries of
overhead staff and personnel, (iii) maintenance and repair costs of existing
facilities, (iv) instructional and consumable materials per course, and (v)
other recurring costs. Recurring costs are broken down on a per trainee
basis by assuming proportional shares used by a trainee according to the
total duration of each particular course; and (c) Data on teachers' dis-
tribution (i) number of related theory and workshop instructors (by trade
and course), (ii) number of overhead staff, principal and vice-principal, and
(iii) number of other personnel.
B. STATISTICS ON THE FLOW OF TRAINEES
3.05    Annual statistics are collected on:  (a) enrollment per course and
program, (b) drop-out rates by program, (c) repetition rates by program, and
Cd) promotion rates by program.
3.06    To avoid unneccessary costs, transfers between institutions are
neglected and promotees are defined as the number of students promoted from
one term to another. Repeaters are defined as the number of trainees repeat-
ing a course term, semester or year. Drop-out is defined by the difference
between the enrollment in a specific course and the number of trainees who
actualy finish the course. The promotion, repetition and drop-out rates are
calculated on the basis of the following statistics for each particular
program:
Promotion,      repeaters       and drop-outs
enrollment      enrollment          enrollment
The graduation rate is then defined as: output of a certain course enroll-
ment and program.
C. DATA REOUIREMENTS FOR MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
3.07    Maintenance management data which is collected include the following:
(a) Inventory Records and Reports: quantitative and financial; (b) Condi-
tions Reports which are: technical inspection reports, acceptance inspection
reports, and surveillauce inspection reports; (c) Equipment Utilisation
Reports including: actual hours, percent of actual hours to available hours,
and deadline (breakdown) rate; and Cd) Space Utilisation Reports.
D. THE FLOW OF INFORMATION
3.08    The amount of information required increases at the higher management
levels. (see: Chart 3 on Information Flows). For example, the workshop
manager is only required to have information on his group of trainees, their



-49-
ANNEX 6
Page 4
material and equipment needs, and the actual training methodlogy. The Prin-
cipal is expected to have information on overall enrollment, drop-out,
repetition and graduation rates, the cost of training, the institution's
personnel, as weli as the institution's catcbment area demand for skilled
workers. He is also responsible for follow-up on the employability of
trainees.
3.09    For the PTB's to properly prepare annual training plans, they are
required to collect data on the Province's manp,wer supply and demand of
skilled and semi-skilled labour, training costs by program, institutions and
course, actual training expenditures, training personnel requirements, build-
ings, equipment and materials requirements.
3.10    At the Federal level, the NTB is responsible, for the overall plan-
ning, monitoring and evaluation of all project's activities. The project's
management requires quarterly reports from all the project's operating units
and the PTB's.
3.11    The basic operating units of the project are the vocational training
centers. The PTB's are also responsible for implementing the In-Plant Train-
ing Program. Information on policies and budget decisions flow from the NTB
to the PTB's (and from them to the apppropriate training institution).
Progress Reports on the project's actual implementation are sent from the
PTB's to the NTB every three months.
3.12    The NTDI sends monthly reports to the NTB about each of its
activities. Finally, the NTB's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit processes and
Analyses all the data collected on all project activities. It prepares
reports for the Government of Pakistan, IDA and the UNDP/ILO. Apart from the
periodic reports sent from and to each operation unit, the project's manage-
ment utilise several other means to gather and make public information. The
following have been utilized; (a) information workshops for senior officers
in the NTB, NTDI and PTB's, to discuss policy and decision-making issues and
(b) information workshops for officers of 1NTB, NTDI and PTB's and the Prin-
cipals and Vice-Principals of vot:aional training institutions, to inform
them about policies, planning and programming related to project's
activities.
3.13    In summary, the Project Management Information System includes:  (C)
monthly planning meeting where staff activities are planned; (b) daily
activity records; (c) loc&tion planning sheet; (d) visit records by staff
members; and (e) technical memorandum prepared by different experts.



-50-
ANNEX 6
Page 5
4. THE EVALUATION OF INSTITUTIOXAL TRAINING
4.01    Evaluation is concerned with three basic aspects of the program
operation: (a) nrogram verformance indicates whether implementation is
proceeding in accordance with the program plan and budget, (b) iroaram
effectiveness determines the extent to which the program has achieved its
objectives, and (c) propram efficiency indicates the extent to which program
results a-:e pruw-iced in the most cost effective way.
4.02    Th? evaluation methodology concentrates on determining the trainees'
employability, increases in wages, overtime, occupational mobility and
increases in labour productivity attributable to training and not to addi-
tional capital investment.
A. PROGRAM EVALUATION PROCEDURE
4.03    The following steps are used in conducting annual evaluation excer-
cises:  (a) the Development Objective (from the project docume-;) is out-
lined; (b) the Immediate Objective (from the project document) is noted;
zc) For Inputs, Activities and Outputs; (i) planned targets as shown in the
project document are listed, (ii) targets scheduled or intended for comple-
tion during the period are identified, (iii) the present status of all tar-
gets are listed, (iv) major assumptions for the achievement of the immediate
objectives are noted; and (v) a determination is made whether each assumption
is valid.
4.04    EVALUATION is carried out by applying the following analytical tests:
(a) Effectiveness: To what extent the project achieved or is likely to
achieve its objectives? (b) Efficiency: Do the expected project results
continue to justify the costs? (c) Relevance: (Significance): Does the
project continues to make sense? (d) Con:inuinz Validity of Proiect Desirn:
Is the design itself still logical and conerent? Is there a reasonable
expectation that the planned inputs, activities and outputs, together with
their assumptions, will lead to the achievement of objectives? (e) Unan-
ticipted effects: Is this project having any significant unexpected effects,
whether beneficial or detrimental? (f) Identification of Alternatives: Is
there, or would there have been a more effective or more efficient way to
approach the problems being addressed by this project? (g) Causality: What
factors affected the project performance?
B. DIRECT AND INDIRECT EFFECTS OF TRAINING
4.05    The direct effects of a training program are seen in terms of its
effect on trainees; while the indirect effects refer to consequences for the
people with whom the fo-mer trainees work. In both cases, evaluation is
concerned with increaBing both results and procedures.



-51-
ANNEX 6
Page 6
4.06    Collecting information on these four aspects permits evaluation in
terms of a number of relationships, each of which would supply a different
type of conclusion.
TABLE I: ASPECTS TO BE MEASURED BY PROGRAM LEVEL AND TYPE OF
INFORMATION OBTAINED
|   I       Type of information to be obtained on
I Program   I                              I                          I
I Component         R Results              I      Procedures          I
l_ _  _ _            (C)                             ( (D)           I
| Training  I Quantity and content of   I Types of teaching           I
I Courses   I subject matter learned    I techniques utilized.   I
(A)     I by trainees in terms of   I Substantive content of I
l_ _         I course obectives            I  courses.
I Vocational I Effects of intervention   I Type of promotion of   I
I Training  I by persons trained in        I the program made by    I
I Program   I courses in terms of their I TTC's personnel.            I
(B)     I socio-economic situation  I Content of in-plant    I
I and productivity.           I program.  Placement    I
I            i                             | Services Activities    1
Each cell in the Table I (AC,AD,BD,BD) represents a different aspect, so five
types of analysis are made:
(a) the relationship between course results (C) and the results achieved
by the intervention of training persons (BC) evaluates the direct
relation between course results and field results;
(b) the relationship between course result (AC) and course procedures
(AD) evaluate the efficiency of different elements of the courses in
terms of trainee learning;
(c) the relationship between course results (AC) and field procedures
(BD) evaluates differential effects of the courses on the daily work
of the trainees;
(d) the relationship between course procedures (AD) and field procedures
(BD) evaluates the differential effectiveness of training methods in
producing expected change on- trainees;
(e) the relationship between field procedures (BD) and results of the
program field (BC) evaluates the effectiveness of the field techni-
Sues and methods used to produce expected change in economic units
(such as productivity, employment, etc.).
4.07    Project efficiency is determined in two ways: Internal effiency
refers to the internal capacity of the training system to produce the
expected number of trainees according to certain standards, in a limited time
and at a reasonable cost.  External Efficiency, determines the effects of
training on former trainees' occupational lives and on their productivity



-52-
ANMEX 6
Page 7
within a shop of undertaking. To the extent the focus of the system is on
the first, it is process evaluation. External efficiency is more output
evaluation.
C. INTERNAL EFFICIENCY
4.08    In-examining the effectiveness of project implementation, tbe follow-
ing aspects are covered: (a) implementation of the work plan of the National
Training Bureau; (b) implementation of the work plan of the National Training
Development Institute; (c) budget implementation by the Provincial Training
Boards; (d) institutional training work plan implemetation; (e) master plan
for instructor training implementation; (f) In-Plant Training Advisory Serv-
ices establishment and in-plant training staff training implementation; (g)
equipment and furniture procurement plan; (h) civil works planning implemen-
tation schedule; and (i) implementation plan of the Technical Assistance
program.
4.09    Internal Efficiency indicators which measures the extent to which
the ojectives are being achieved are: (a) percentages of utilisation of
facilities and equipment; (b) the extent to which technical support and
administrative units are attaining their goals; (c) Coefficient of achieve-
ment of production units which measure the relationship between enrollment at
the beginning of the training period and the programmed enrollment for the
training period; (d) Coefficient of absorption which measures the relation-
ship between the programed enrollment and the number of candidates, by trade
and training centres; (e) Drop-outs Coefficient, which is the percentage
relation between the number of dropouts (DO) and initial enrollment (IE);
Cf) Training Productivity Coefficient, which is the relation between the
number of graduates and the initial enrollment (percentage); (g) Course
Implementation Coefficient, vhich measures the reloition between the number of
courses effectively carried out and the number of programed courses, by
training cycle; and (h) Coefficient of Implementation of Training Courses,
which measures the relation between the total training hours and program
training courses at the end of a period.
4.10    In sunmary, the following data is collected to analyze the internal
efficiency of the institutional training program: (a) Type of progrAms
offered in each vocational training institution; (b) Number of trainees per
course, trade and specific program (enrollment); (c) Length of each par-
ticular program (in months); (d) Hours of classroom and workshop instruction
for each program; (e) Length of the school year at each institution; (f)
Starting and closing dates of the school year for each institution; (g) Entry
requirements for trainees in each program and trade; (h) Trainee's qualifica-
tions for graduation; Ci) Trainee's recruitment process; (j) Trainee's place-
ment services available at each institution; (k) Annual output (graduates)
from each trade and program; (1) Number and type of workshops in operation;
(a) Number and type of machines in each workshop; (n) Cost Capproximative)
for each workshop; (o) Cost of classroom, laboratories, libraries and other
facilities; (p) Cost per unit of constructed area; (q) Cost of land; (r)



-53-
ANNEN 6
Page 8
Number and distribution of instructors; (s) Salaries of each category
instructor; (t) Annual cost of administrative and support personnel; (u)
Annual cost of materials and supplies; and (v) Other costs i.e. student
housing, boarding, etc.
D. EXTERNAL EFFICIENCk
4.11    External efficiency evaluation is supposed to determine the effects
of training on the occupational lives of trainees and their productivity in
employment. It specifically looks at: (a) Employment (i) which portion of
the trainess find a ,ob within a certain period of time? (ii) how long after
finishing a course does it take graduates to find a job? and (iii) how many
of the people trained become self-employed? (b) The quality of employment is
measured by the characteristics of the job and whether it corresponda to the
skills acquired by the trainee; (c) Productivity and earnings: whether the
increase in the graduates' productivity justifies its costs. As an
approximation for productivity, information on additional earnings of
graduates is supposed to be collected. (d) Mobility: does the training
contribute sufficiently to social mobility so that in tine, the graduate will
perform better and be better off tban without the training?
4.12    On the supply side, the basic questions which are considered are:
Ca) have the vocational training institutionr. oversupplied er undersupplied
(regionally and nationally)? and (b) vhat is the private and social rate of
return to vocational training (given the data on costs and benefits of train-
ing)? These two questions can only be answered in iAn appropriate way.
Information is to be collected on a continuing basis on the careers of a
random sample of trainees. In particular, trainees' records and institu-
tional records are to be updated annually.
4.13    Statistics on the Stock and Enuloyment of Trainees which is to be
collected inc7ude: (a) (i) Name and age (ii) Previous education (iii) Pre-
vious job experience (iv) Origin: urban/rural (v) Father's education (vi)
Father's occupation (vii) LAnguage spoken at home (viii) Entry examinations'
grades (ix) Grades at the last sxamination (x) Other trade exanination (if
any); and (xi) Other professional qualifications (b) Eunloyment Records: C()
time elapsed between graduation and first employment (ii) year of start,
salary of start, employer and occupation of first employment (iii) annual
employment status registering for each job, salary occupation, employer, size
of the production unit, economic sector and weekly hours worked
4.14    Statistics on the Suuplv and Demand for Trainees:  (a) are most jobs
in the selected groups of occupations, for which training is being provided,
filled by trainees from T.T.Cs, A.T.Cs., G.V.Is, or other institutions? (b)
what are the qualifications of the trainees' co-workers who are employed in
similar occupations within the ssme production unit?



-54-
ANNEX 6
Page 9
4.15    This kind of data on the employment of trainees and their co-workers
is obtained from employers or imediate supervisors. Also, data about the
employment of dropouts from vocational training institutions is to be col-
lected and compared vith graduates.
4.16    Hanpower forecasts of future demand of skilled and semi-skilled
workers by occupation is also required. Basically this data is obtained from
either (a) projections based on census or survey data on the occupational
structure of each economic sector and branch of economic activity, or, (b)
through direct surveys carried out by the PTBs.
4.17    Information on the dmnand for skilled manpover, coupled with the
information collected from follow-up sample studies of former trainees (and
drop-outs), is supposed to assist the project's managers to determine the
extent to which the present output of trainees by trade is adequate.
4.18    The employability of trainees is considered the most important
criteria to judge the external effiency of the system. In order to evaluate
the performance of the NVTS, answers to the following questions are sought:
(a) Does the graduate from the vocational training institutions find employ-
ment within a reasonably short period of time? (b) Is the employment
obtained by trainees in line with their training, or do these positions
demand less skill and knowledge than the training courses provided? (c) What
is the incremental earnings stream which could reasonably be associated with
the training offered? (d) What are the career prospects of the trainees from
different trades and programs? (e) What are the unemployment rates among
trainees after training? (f) What is the dominant employment status among
trainees from different trades and programs i.e. self-employed, employed in
big, medium and small shops? and (g) What are the private and social rates
of return for each specific trade and program and their average?
4.19    Finally, with information on the earnings of the graduates, the
project's management is supposed to apply investment analysis to vocational
training. The total training costs including the opportunity costs of
trainee (income foregone) is to be considered the investment. The pay off
from the investment is to be the measured increment in wages resulting from
additional training.



-55-
- Trale "  eI %Ctrs                                    NATIC"UL TRAIUING  _O
atil training plan                                                                         I                      CHART -I
P Ae rch' ae dewslomac
- Nonting amd emaluatiao
- Flnancine or training
.            D~~~IRECTOS GEIU*
rUAULW TOAINING                    J
PU    I NCUL             h PROVINCIAL SJL V P.S.P WALKNISUN                                  &1hITfIIIIG a              oral
TLRUINGIIC             TR^XIlC BOAD           Pr101"CIAL              POINCIAL               EVAAL T:QN UIT             N.r.o.l.
.            IThUuhfl6WCIUDNM         TRAI l UIGOAN
St Ch    S IN,
- -.1Pregarsiton of Uuartnrly
ami Annual Pro!Jrsi r.srrs
feo t.D.A. and guwernmt.
- A115st In prari  WI  Plans
I                      i                                       - Evaluate all Project  oUnstactivtsces
-  Prose chanaas to be SAt VdcIO to :-e xrr
PERSSUIEL*PnIGREC.DT
I SInCT  m        I                             I;                                                            .
CIVFL uaus AND  |          VJCN                  FUIANM              WBK  SrA_T                                 _    ES         D rATA
RXICTI15: FS tRNG               :              RJCTCTIION:                                   fWChIcc Sr              flCTIONS:
-  aag_t of ovalIc  - am recofo  of aIl  - Acco.tln  of all    - Set si lcan .a              - Preparation of        - Process daU  n enfrolmnt
prowttes  ragninqg  projct perniojel           project's actcistel.  g.a  I ans.             1las.
to voactional training  contract  of           aacoc Iassn fcoaca tr  aane                                                           costs.ogas
w  woneel u^an aq n or=u e             - Reeonciltaglins af   -  Drg iIst trIotsc    - Mnsewrogreqrss        .i,5  s    Dcs
- Estal ilit of                                  accountu.               tacfeiCAl  CO  nun. r rtunq.                - Conduct rainws eolloe
-_-llc umenslm       . Aewonrtse sauCtiew                                                                            go sbwys-
tr inn  fatcilni l    -a dti e    saoctlonnd    Aw- rr  n  of   the   -    Provides   Tecam ical    -  Pr re   rw   trainSng  _  C   s s   a
training failit,es.    90tt1in5.   Fj  , awRoo s.         -Assistact. to tacO'  scrwimi.                 .onpoen SW-Vey&  nc.  i
Clen  am             - Select candidates fw                            nical cw untus anm -tn_alg  :refelaaces arh
trtiii5t I tienoft                             foiilq.r  e   aawendlunits.meeting.                                 - Evaluate the acceoml mii-
tr5tahimg  gi_ac.                            .tAsS5s  to UN       -ctivsd t sof Project's
IipW'seOU of           rcuit_nt of projec- r tP gmls  tBt- t 5    _l           of e r  a4ctit
-cntu      iotn  * "    _             ltton -        rscncllatioa. _c e,s*o ti _aii    n    r"nr     er            inns
oo tiwo training   prw,n>tr                 -Cnta eoert   of          ztnsr.t               crmnnq  e"-ac        -  s^s Er    prjctsw
aleaveo   sati5   now value.                                           I E o on the    in :Is cn   et o 
4"" of amsa"m.  ~ ~      ~        ~      ~       ocali~at f             diumntinof mnfo,
Inventory control of   01te..i.  for the     -ria   en  amym                                 frinng                  al omon.
ewnint. tools and    Fifaic& Brnc  the         haopti "g.
ast  Rals.       Item  Inciue  In tcm - maintai, accounts of
Pay rarel.             sCff p_amnts.
Evaluate prje cts   -maintaio racats of all
veronmel Perfarmance   cmiautcU.



-56-
FUNCTIONAL ORGANISA1ION CHT B.
CHART 2
NATTOAL TRAINING DELVE      T
DISTITUTE
N. T. 0. 1.
am  ar_t of                   Ocprarunt of                    OWrtownt of                   Ow art_nt of                        O       ofe
Occiartim. I                  Trade Testing and               Stff Trainin                  Tratntng Matris                   1-at rafinSt
Anlysls an                    Certification                                                 DeveTinnngt _an-
Curriculm                                                                                   e1do Contra
Ol"opmnt_
FhCTIOS:                    FUICTIOS:                         FUNCTIIL,                        FUIr IONS:                   FWICCnS:
-Conduct jot analyses        -  Aksist In Uw develIont   -  Provides a        1ihstrative   - Design tratning matertals    _  Assist IC .--
in sel acted  ccWGons.        of trade standardk for          staff training.                                                s.ule    tean of
certified ocrueatins.                                       _ Diee-Op training matrals.         "nat traintas pea
- Promot skill    ~   -  MAsist 1n orgeNising             IoiU5Mngmn
stndard vtting for            Tr1ierite Telnical              training.                   - _istribute training matwials-  S51trfsa t"nent
selectd occitions.            C      t                                                                                       training.
-inittaes.        _  Provides lnstructors,       -   5sign t_ aming Aids.        -  Orgaeise  suniq fer
-Oesign curriculu            -  Convene meting of      Tch    training.                     - Olo   U            as              dustr  suoersw .
-   veOV training               C tts to cns e  r               Osgn curriculu                                                   ga      |itanigao
mtludologies                  sUne                            dvXolet                     -Test opeforannce of lm teat  O-          : tr         for
Develeop oroqraedl           Preare occuaetlonal sillls -  Design t       n maLterials.    teaching macnin es.S j                         
individual instruction.       stSt rPeed proposals.        -  Conduct sttt training         Preare  ad,ov l                     e tn   eef
Idenutiy teachsnqf        -~ pr egae occst1ioneal skills          assesmis.                 informed men.                        ra _         ne .
:tarning str t"ltS.                                        -  Train t1ecirs  11 b         -eCm
vocational cueteIlmrs.       DOeceimne the WOfeciveSss
Assessmntt and Per frmance                                    or validity of instructional
ef a aprov   tade stanards                                    materials and sequeces.
And costs.



-57-
CORT OF ItOIITUO;I FUNIS IN THE N.V.T.P.                               CNMT 3
tIUlTIOI Om Ti  wI  Poucirs tli TSiitaSn
EAGtr PMV SI0SS
Ff3S wM .  PuaVuSIiu i_            __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
nEAm.I wemuan                                             OLn uVCTIT               I'MAN;,IC !uac!..q
COMPIDIMITE~~~                            _                           - ..
I                              PUOVI _OCTtP14_S Folk   I_STRuc?05             __tRn_ing
l  l l_WEu                 I =
j              I                                                                 U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDIICRTC IISSYTUTtA
I~~ITIRO             N~~arlowL                      'OVIICIM.                      VWCAT?g,
-~          1  I l?ou
~~~M)RYNI. ZEQu{I l  l csr orCIigJT 
TAMST    FNR                                  IIIC AltuS
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~' AN CIAL  SinTVCuiS                                                    '2' TK                 5   
_  o                                                                                       rRAIR oMto. raulC Sws,rR      
SUARYCU     VALUATON  II-LA1    AItI ______AU_______
'SECI,NrLlVTATOISA ATIzm                      C       lC?rm T(



-58-
CHART 4
FLOW CHART FOR EVALUAII: INSTITUTIONAL TRAnIiG
ERALUATIOR PRCESS                                  OUTPUTS                          ,TEONS (NEC   sSATMS)
.   IUE t(x _                                                                           lWIenF CIOTUIESa (Ir  L=1  (   a A  UZEATA E DATA
PR TM.. 11- STITUnOR AND TLIN  wiw nuFSTIOR*30  ISIRrTE I
-~~~~~~~cw I (-lp4SIN Tuet 
1. aE    AI CU IER  0D_ FOlt-
ISN  0TRADE   WI C ClOED                                  Lo
S.  .CEIU  _A*CT UTIZAIO  O
MIRCAIE VDNAT CAE         ic)
_             tW                   >t lsoS~~~~~~~~19000ATION: aND mlsnum  1  I
3. DETEUNINE  ATRS OFPEOTmAL            _
TRIUIA    IITE D  in  cm C
4. OErINE COST MGR"                                                                             TAOWIUEL,   fs 
'_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O IMtlpMT Ir An=
flIIIS.  KM1ECACITT IMIZLIT  OF11 r                                                        EIM TUFI /
FAIIIS E_IWf                                       I I
r                        :/ { tlE~~.0,  CllME10 DECRE-;U  TE
-= _ I t\ t IIF~~~~~~~~~LO                                             nUllER OF TPA
6. IlTEtIll1E IlilEPI  EFFCIEISt OF 
.THE {EIPWOM DM/UMTES). _
P ER THEIN  aTESU                                           lI \
7. DETEVPUNE EtLOTEF5- PltCNES          _      II                                        EeW       C    X 
FAUSAL oF RAwaTIES              1      1 9          .    _ 
V rtIWr  AND QUALIVCATIONS                                           _
S.   .VR Ar Wn REQs" VI N
MfICATIONS COWESE TUC1 TWINGQU7 OIFFES                                                               JF
FM W)LIFrutION _
I .                      |   19  -L   att~~~~~ or FiTF        
9. DETERMINt E Itrl OFTUM WLO_
hoW       casm  Orc TRZO   Ur=                                P rO n  ;
VOAIU 'CU    UAND
TRM    II =  SAi 0s==;



-59-
ANNEX 7
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPU2BLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
FIRST VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (CR. 1109-PAK)
ACHIEVEMENT TO DATE (OCTOBER 1985)
BOARD DATE              Marcb 28, 1981
SIGNING DATE            July 28, 1981
EFFECTIVE DATE          October 27, 1981
PROJECT CCMPLETION      December 1984 (Appraisal) June 1987 (Current Eat.)
CREDIT CLOSING          December 1986 (Appraisal) December 1987 (Current Est.)
CREDIT AMOUNT           SDR 19.7 million
A. PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENT
1. CIVIL WORKS
Completion Date             Status
Institution              Appraisal          Expected          April
Estimate          Completion        1985
CONTRACT NO 1
1. ATC Labore (N)            December 1984       Completed          100:
2. ATC Ferozewala (E)         December 1984      Completed          100:
3. GVI Sheikhupura (R+E)      December 1984      Completed          100Z
CONTRACT NO 2
4. ATC Faisalabad (E)         December 1984      Completed          100Z
5. CVI Faisalabad (R)        December 1984       Completed          100Z
6. GVI Sargodha (R+E)         December 1984      Completed          100Z
7. GVI Jauharabad (R+E)      December 1984       Completed          100Z
8. CVI Jhang (R+E)            December 1984      Completed          100%
9. CVI Sabival WR+E)         December 1984       Completed          100Z
10. GVI Multan (R+E)           December 1984      Completed          100%
11. G9I Khaneval (R+E)        December 1984       Completed          100%
12. GVI Babawalpur (R+E)       December 1984      Completed          100S
13. GVI D.G. Khan (R+E)       December 1984       Completed          100:
14. TTC D.I. Khan (R+E)        December 1984      Completed          100Z
CONTRACT NO 3
15. ATC Sialkot (N)           December 1984      December 1986        42%
16. ATC Gujranvala (E)        December 1984       March 1986          78%
17. CVI Gujrsnala (R+E)       December 1984      December 1985        99%
18. CVI Gujrat (R+E)          December 1984       March 1986          62%
CONTRACT NO 4
19. ATC Karachi (N)           December 1984        June 1987          18S
20. TTC Abdullab Haroon (R)   December 1984        June 1987          12%
21. TTC Kotri (E)              December 1984       June 1987           5%
22. TTC Sukkur (R+E)           December 1984       June 1987          12%
CONTRACT NO 5
23. ATC Hyderabad (N)          December 1984      March 1986          42%
CONTRACT NO 6
24. ATC Islambad (N)           December 1984      Mar:h 1986          55%
25. ATC Hardan (N)            December 1984       March 1986          57%
26. TTC Kalabat (RoE)          December 1984      March 1986          602
27. GVI Jhelum (R.E)           December 1984     December 1985        60!
CONTRACT NO 7
28. TTC Quetta (E)             December 1984     September 1986       28%
29. TIC Ihuzdar (RWE)          December 1984      Karch 1986          502
N - New', R - Renovation, E   Extensions



-60-
ANNEX 7
Page 2
2. EQUIPMENT
Delivery        Installation/Co,missioned
(a) Trade Training Equipment        Completed at            Completed at
21 Centers              16 Centers
(b) Audio Visual;
Printing Equipment              Completed               Completed
(c) Motor Generator Sets            July 1985               September 1985
(d) Technical BookstSlides          October 1985
B. EDUCATIONAL ACHIEVEMENT
1. ENROLLMENT
19 3          1984           1985
Appra-        Appra-         Appra-
Province      Institutions Capacity isal   Actual isal   Actual isal   Actua
Punjab             24        7370    5962   3184   5S62   3868   6160   4298
Sind                6         1328    1438    828   2232    934   2278    999
RWFP                5        1102    1176       -    1176     -    1176    883
Baluchistan         2           - a/   424    306    424    445    424       -
TOTAL              37        10276    9800   4767   9794   4714  10038   6180
a/ Institutions under construction.
2. INSTRUCTOR TRAINING
Appraisal Extimate                  Posts Filled           No Trained
New Instructors        640                590                    373
Existing Instructors  435                 258                     155
Total              1075                848                    528
Achievement (Trained vs. Appraisal) - 49%
3. IN-PLANT TRAINING
Category               Appraisal Estimate    Achievement        x AC.
In-Plant Training Instructors          2800                  297  a/      10.60:
Top Managers                           1000                  550          55.007
Middle Managers                        1000                  990          99 00
Supervisors                            2800                 1980          70.70
Workers                               20000                17000          85.00
a/ The 297 In-Plant instructors is an actual. The others are estimates
based on the multiplier system of the Nodular Scheme for Supervisory
Training.
4. TRADE STANDARDS. TESTS AND CURRICULUM
Appraisal Estimate    Completed       Approved by NTB
Trade Standards                 27                26                21
Curriculum                      27                22                 _
Trade Tests                     27                10                 _



-61-                                        ANNE  7
Page 3
5. CREATINICG NATIONAL TRAINING INFRASTRUCTURE
Appraisal       Positions
Estimte           Filled      I Achieved
(1) National Traininn Board
Staffing                            31                29            932
(2) National Traininaf Development
Institute                           30                24            80:
(3) Provincial Trainine Board
Punjab                              25                17            68%
Sind                                18                16            81:
Mr"                                  11                9            82:
Baluchistan                           7                2            2S2
Pll Activitis                               Punisb              Sind             NWFP            Baluchistan
Inspection and Supervision                 on-going           on-going          on-going
Organizing Trade Testing                   starting         cell created        starting          starting
In-Plant Advisory Services              position created  staff appointed  ataff appointed  staff appointed
Assesaing Training Needs                   completed          not done          completed         not done
Preparing Provincial Training Plans        complet-d          not done          completed         completed
C. FINANCIAL ACIIIEVEMENT
CUSS million)
FY 82                    n 83        _            FY 84                    FrY 85                    FY 86
Category                      Actual                   Actual                    Actual                   Actual               |Anticipated
Allocation Expenditure  Allocation Expenditure Allocation Eenditure  Allocation Expenditure  Allocation Expenditure
Civil Worka         1.80        0.33          1.76       n.18          2.24        2.48          2.68       3.66          3.00       4.21
Equipment           2.00        0.09          5.96       0.08          9.47        7.53          3.15       4.68          0.25       0.18
Operating Costs    1.65         0.73          2.17        1.14         2.22        4.23          1.65       1.76          1.00       0.85
Teeb. Assist.       0.32        0.32          0.40        0.40         0.58        0.58          0.57       0.40          0.33       0.65
____             __        __        ,___            _      _____I_______________  _____  ___
TOTAL            5.77        1.38         10.29        1 80   4    14.51   J1482    ]    8.05           10.50    J   458          5.89
Performance (Actual as Z of Allocation)                               DLsbursements (As of October 1985)
FT 82 -  24.0Z                                               Total - SDR 12.3 Million
FT 83 -  17.5?                                               Appraisal Estimate - SDR 18.8 Million
FT 84 - 102.0:                                               Standard Profile - SDR 12.4 Million
F2 85 - 130.01                                              Actual as   of Appraisal Estimate - 65.4:
FT 86 - 128.0%                                              Actual as   Standard Profile - 99?
Revised Estimate (October 1985) SDR 13.1 Million
Actual as : of Revised Estimate - 93.8:



-62-
ANNEX .8
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STUDY ON THE FINANCING OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN PAKISTAN
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Introduction
1.      The Governaent of Pakistan has announced a policy for the privatiza-
tion of general education and has declared its intent to introduce direct
cost recovery from beneficiaries. In vocational training however, different
systems of fees and subsidies exist in the provinces. In the federally
supported National Vocational Training System (NVTS), the Government intends
to introduce cost recovery by March, 1989. The proposed study would provide
the necessary analysis and information on the level of fees, impact on
beneficiaries, enrollment and output, as vell as a plan for the introduction
in each province.
B. Rationale
2.      General In Pakistan, there are sustained pressures for the Government
to continue expanding and improving education and training services. The
country, however. faces a conflict between meeting long-term social goals and
manpower requirements, and short-term budgetary and economic constraints.
Because the inadequacy of financial resources imposes limits on the develop-
ment of education and training, the quality of training suffers although this
is what the Government should strive to prevent. More recently, it has
become clear that planned educational goals and targets are untenable under
present circumstances and are unlikely to be met in the foreseeable future
under existing financial and budgetary constraints. What this points to is
the need to re:iew the existing education and training policies and to con-
sider new policies and instruments to improve the process of financing educa-
tion and training. This is necessary in order to reflect priorities in the
allocatiou of resources, and, as important, to reduce the pressure and
reliance on the public budget for the development of education and training.
3.      Vocational Training Important issues concerning vocational training
include: (i) how to achieve a rapid expansion of vocational training capacity
to meet priority manpower needs; (ii) how to mobilize additional resources
for, and reduce unit costs of, vocational training in order to assure the
long-term financial viability of an expanded vocational training system; and
(iii) hov to maximize the efficiency and equity of resource allocation from
the public and private sources for the different training programs. These
issues require that the Government develop and adopt a clear policy of the



-63-
ANNEX 8
Page 2
financing of vocational training, including all aspects of budget implica-
tions and the role of the private sector, cost sharing and/or recovery and
subsidization of the training system.
C. Scope of the Study
4.      The Study should:
(a) investigate the costs of financing training programs, paying
particular attention to:
(i) capital and recurrent costs/expenditures;
(ii) the costs that are borne by different financing agents within the
public and private sectors, including the individual beneficiary;
and
(b) evaluate recent policies, current methods of financing vocat;ional
training, including cost sharing and cost reconery. The study should
highlight all issues associated with financing of vocational training
and should take into account existing gover,nent policies and plans,
particularly priorities regarding higher efficiency, greater equity
and income redistribution.
(c) address the impact of reduced subsidies I1; in particular whether:
(i) a reduction in subsidies (from current levels) would have a large
negative impact on enrollments or whether the price elasticity of
demand for training would be sufficiently low for that not to be
the case. The study would be expected to establish the critical
minimum level below which subsidies should not be reduced in
light of the possible impact on enrollment;
(ii) a reduction in subsidies could have an adverse effect on tne
distribution of training opportunities and benefit the higher
income groups disproportionately; and
(iii) a reduction in public subsidies to vocational training could
result in a deterioration of the quality of training and reduce
achievement, or if private funds would substitute for public
funds, leave per pupil expenditures on training inputs unchanged;
(d) discuss the structure and administration of fees. In all cases,
aspects of inter- and intra-provincial and sectoral (public and
private) differences should be discussed;
jj A exhaustive treatment of the impact of reduced subsidies will require
that a comparative private and social cost-benefit analysis of vocational
training institutions be carried out.



-64-
ANNEX 8
Page 3
(e) propose and review alternative sources and measures of financing
vocational training, in particular measures that would assure
adequate financing of vocational training in the future. For each of
the suggested measures, examine:
(i) the proposed measure and how it could vork;
(ii) the yield in the form of additional funds;
(iii) the impact on the quality of learning and any other impact it may
have on the users;
(iv) the implications for equity among different groups and/or
provinces;
(v) the organizational implications (e.g. within the Ministry of
Labor and Manpower Development, Provincial Training Boards,
etc.);
(vi) with a view to greater efficiency in organization and management,
suggest improvements in the coordination, planning, monitoring
and evaluation; and financial arrangements, e.g. between Federal
and Provincial governments.
D. Duration of the Study
20 man-months.
E. Form of Final Product
5.      A Technical Report containing all work done (analysis, tables,
annexes, etc.), covering all that is outlined in Section 2 above. The
National Training Bureau would be responsible for managing the Study, through
the selection, hiring and supervision of local and/or foreiga consultants. A
firm of consultants, rather than individuals is preferred.



-65-
AKNE 8
Page 4
STUDY ON FIRANCIAL COMPENSATION AND TRAINING IN PRIVATE ENTERPRISES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Background
1.      The policy of the Government of Pakistan is to foster the training
of skilled manpower by the private sector. Schemes of financial compensation
payments to private sector employees who were undertaking training of appren-
tices in excess of their own requirements have been considered, but have been
administratively difficult to develop and implement.  It is still the Govern-
ment's intention to actively pursue the policy. The purpose of the study
therefore is to obtain more data and develop appropriate mechanisms for
future policy development.
B. Obiectives
2.      The objectives of the study are to:
(a) establish the main factors wnich influence emplcyers'
decisions in firms of different sizes on how vacancies for
skilled workerq should be filled;
(b) consider how tin_.cial or other inputs would affect this
process and what advantages might accrue to goverment and the
enterprise respectively;
(c)  obtain information about training costs and benefits under the
folloving headings:
gi) overall costs of training one apprentice in firms of
different sizes and types, allowing for drop-out rates
over the apprenticeship period;
(ii)  overall costs of producing one TTC graduate kalloving for
drop-out rates;
(iii) cost per trainee of giving basic training in ATCs in Punjab;
(iv)  cost per trainee of giving basic training only off-the-job
at selected private enterprises; and
(v) estimated benefits to the state, employer and trainee of
alternative methods of training;
(d) sample employer attitudes to the idea of financial
compensation for training under the following types of
headings;
(i) subsidies for trainee stipends;
(ii) assistance with the purchase of training equipment;



-66-
ANNEX 8
Page 5
(iii) assistance with the provision or improvement of premises
for basic training;
(iv)  assistance with the operation costs of basic training
(e.g. part-stipends of instructive staff);
(v)  assistance with one part of trainee only e.g. basic
training as opposed to whole -period of apprenticeship.
(vi) administrative issues i.e. what kind of paperwork,
control system would employers tolerate;
(The above list provides examples only; and is not comprehensive).
(e) summarize the data as the basis for government policy on
financial compensation to employers for carrying out training
in excess of direct needs.
C. Plan of Work
3.      It is suggested that the sttsdy be monitored by a steering group
composed of senior staff of the Federal Ministry of Labor and Nanpower and
the National Training Bureau, with one member co-opted from the Ministry of
Finance. It should be carried out by a tean of local consultants but be
timed that the foreign expert on industrial training be available to advise
and assist when necessary.
4.      It will be necessary for the consultants, in association with the NITB
to prepare a relatively large sample of enterprises, structured by Province,
region, size, industry and ownership, to which a well designed questionnaire
on the financing of trainees should be sent and collected by local staff of
Directorates of Manpower and Training.
5.      A smaller but similarl; structured sample of firms should be visited
by the consultants for the purpose of conducting in-depth interviews with
senior management, training managers or training officers. This sample could
be enlarged by sub-contracting some of the work to Provincial Training
Development staff.
6.      The postal questionnaire and visits to employers should be supple-
mented by a limited number of discussion groups at which the consultants
should bring together employer and Government representatives to discuss and
comment on ideas emanating from the interview programme,
7.      This program of questionnaire analysis, interviews and discussion
groups should be supplemented by a parallel program of interviews and discus-
sions with relevant Government depart- mentr and visits to TTCs and ATCs,



-67-
ANNEX 8
Page 6
D. Diration of the Study : 22 months
E. Form of Final Revort
8.      The final report should be in three main parts:
(i) an analysis of the data collected and detailed information to support
the proposals on financial compensation,
(ii) considered proposals on forms of financial compensation to the
private sector which would provide a cost-effective alternative to
institutional training, and vould likely elicit employer cooperation,
(iii) proposals for practical administrative arrangements which could be
used to put the proposals to work in an effective way.



-68-
ANME 8
Page 7
STUDY ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF A RURAL APPRETICESEIP TRAINING PROGRAM
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. BACKGROUND
1.      With the impetus given by the Government of Pakistan to agricultural
mechanization and small industries development, the occupational scene in
the semi-urban and rural areas has been changing rapidly from a predominance
of unskilled farm-related jobs, to a variety of new occupations requiring
industrial skills. Small and medium towns have been experiencing the
development of expanding networks enterprizes for of light engineering serv-
ices and for repair and service of agricultural machinery and implements.
The increased availability of consumer goods is also fostering the growth of
small servicing centers. Public investment in road construction, irrigation,
health and education, clean water and sanitation services, and housing
facilities is also increasing. As a result of these initiatives, the demand
for goods and services in the suburban and rural countryside is rising.
Occupations such as electricians, welders, auto and farm mechanics, radio
and TV mechanics, masons, carpenters and plumbers, etc., are in great demand,
but in short eupply. The lure of the urban areas and foreign employment have
further depleted the supply of traditional workers, such as masons and car-
penters in rural areas. The resulting scarcity of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower in rural areas can only be overcome by the development of
appropriate training programs.
2.      Traditionally, vocational training in Pakistan has been undertaken
in the iaformal sector. Under this system, master craftsmen, either
individually or as a part of a small private enterprise takes a group of
young and barely literate apprentices and trains them through a protracted
work-cum-training cycle (6-8 years). This culminates in the development of
saleable skills among the apprentices. However, the training process is
neither organized according to any recognizable educational sequence nor is
it incremental in a given span of time. Repetitive chores entrusted to the
apprentices carry an element of residual learning, but unrelated to any
understanding of scientific principles. The trial and error approach, par-
ticularly in the diagnostic operations is the most favored pedagogic method.
The apprentice therefore is frequently -  -'.or image of the master
craftsman.  In this informal training sy-.   the trainee pays for his learn-
ing through his work. The system is benef ial for both parties and is thus
self-regulating. Turn-over or drop-out ratLs are minimal. After the appren-
ticeship period is completed, the trainee is normally absorbed in the same
organization where he received his tiaining, in other enterprises, or
self-employment. There is no formal skill certification involved, as the
trainee is in a position to sell his skills in the employment market.
3.      To a lesser extent, the craftsman-apprentice system is also practised
in the construction trades of masonary and carpentry in small rural towns.
This practice is, however, on the decline, as rural craftsmen have been
abandoning local areas in favor of opportunities in the larger towns or as
emigrant workers.



-69-
ANNEX 8
Page 8
4.      In recent years, fully institutional vocational training has had
increased popularity particularly with the establishment of vocational
institutes and technical training centers, both in the public and private
sectors.  This mode of training is, however, highly selective and expensive,
and as such, caters to a relatively small number of mostly urban youth.
There is little likelihood that suburban areas, small towns and villages will
be able to benefit substantially from the very small network of publically
financed vocational training institutions which are located in the bigger
urban centers. The other avenue of privately-run vocational training
facilities has limited potential of success in the rural areas because of the
lack of economies of scale, and the unaffordability factor which effects the
majority of rural youth. As a result, rural youth are likely to continue to
be largely excluded from access to institutional vocational training in the
foreseeable future. Few acceptable options exist. It is essential therefore
to look for more cost-effective methods of providing rural vocational train-
ing opportunities. A rural apprenticeship scheme has been conceived by the
govermment as an alternative, but its viability still needs to be estab-
lished.
5.      A rural apprenticeship training scheme should seek to capitalize on
the unused and underutilized training potential in rural public and private
sectors. The study should examine the feasibility of a pilot scheme in the
first instance, and suggest ways by which this scheme could be launched to
provide vocational training opportunities to the rural population in an
affordable and qualitative manner.
B. OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
6.      The study should address the following objectives:
(a) assess the feasibility of providing job-related and apprenticeship-
type training in selected vocational occupations at the semi-skilled
and skilled worker level for the benefit of rural youth in the
existing public/private sector engineering/industrial enterprises
with a view to minimizing capital/recurrent cost investments in the
training effort;
(b) identify unused/underused potential of apprenticeship-type training
for rural youth in existing public/private sector enterprises;
(c) suggest feasible approaches for harnessing the identified potential
of apprenticeship-type training in rural enterprises;
(d) identify a pilot sample of public sector and private sector
enterprises, which would be responsive to the idea of apprenticeship
type training for rural youth; and
(e) delineate the framework of a pilot-scale rural apprenticeship train-
ing program in selected public/private sector enterprises.



-70-
ANNER 8
Page 9
C. PLAN OF WORK
7.      The study should be undertaken in a number of ways. The following
broad plan of work is indicative only:
(a) conduct a sample survey of the existing informal apprenticeship
training system and identify its weaknesses and strengths (4
Provinces);
(b) prepare a comprehensive list of rural-based (inclusive of district
and sub-district towns) public and private sector enterprises wbere
an unused potential of apprenticeship-type training in vocational
trades might exist. The list should include, among others, the
following major enterprises:
i. agricultural machinery workshops of Agriculture Department
(;5 in Sind, 8 in Baluchistan, 29 in Punjab and 10 in NIGP);
ii. mechanical/electrical maintenance workshops of the Provincial
Departments of Communication and Works, Irrigation, Transport.
Public Health Engineering, Housing, WAPDA, Railways, etc.;
iii. major construction/engineering/industrial development projects
located in rural areas;
iv. private sector light auto/tractor repair workshops located in
rural small towns;
v. private sector manufacturing/fabrication plants located in rural
areas; and
vi. major public-sector/private sector production factories/mills
(cement, sugar, textiles, plastics, heavy engineering) located in
sub-district areas.
(c) carry out a sample survey of listed enterprises according to the
following criteria:
i. ascertain trade-wise unused training potential: (availability
of equipment, tools, trained foremen and supervisors, training
places, etc.;
ii. evaluate past training record of the enterprises;
iii. assess the responsiveness of the enterprises to the
apprenticeship-type training proposal; and
iv. identify other possible constraints in operating a successful
training program.
(d) develop possible approaches and modalities for harnessing the
identified training potential of enterprises, focussing on following
aspects:



-71-
AMNEX 8
Page 10
i. collaborative arrangements needed;
ii. linkages that should to be developed;
iii. new inputs required; and
iv. incentives/regulatory measures that may be necessary.
(e) conduct a survey of the rural and small town employment situation in
the vicinity of identified and sampled enterprises in order to select
trade areas in vhich apprenticeship-type training for rural youth
could lead to gainful employment.
(f) conduct sample opinion surveys of community leaders, school heads and
local parent groups located in the catchbent areas of the sampled
enterprises to assess the possible training clientele, their
educational and social background and their disposition to
participate in the proposed training.
(g) develop a pilot project proposal for Rural Apprenticeship-type
Training in selected public and private sector enterprises. The
proposal should include relevant information on:
i. trade areas;
ii. training group sizes;
iii. pre-requisites of target groups;
iv. structure of training (pattern of training, duration, training
methodologies);
v. staffing and material inputs;
vi. training coordination mechanisms;
vii. training certification mechanisms;
viii. training support uechanisms (residential accommodation,
stipends, incentives for trainers and training organizations,
etc);
ix. province-specific or sector-specific (private vs public sectors)
variations in the training design; and
x. expected unit costs of training.
D. ORGADIZATION AND HANAGENENT
8.      Vocational training in Pakistan is presently fragmented among several
Provincial Departments and Agencies. There is little coordination between
them and the training standards vary. Although each Province has established



-72-
ANNEX 8
Page 11
a Provincial Training Board and most departments/agencies are represented on
this Board, the goal of training coordination is yet to be achieved. Rural
apprenticeship training should make use of existing facilities of several
agencies and departments both in the public and private sectors. The ques-
tion of overall management and coordination is of crucial importance. The
study should indicate where and how the management of the proposed scheme
should be organized that is conducive to a successful training effort.
E. Duration of the Stud : 22 months
F. REPLICABILITY OF THE PILOT PROJECT AND TRAINING POLICY FORMULATION
9.      The success of the pilot project in rural apprenticeship training
will carry implications for replication and eventually for training policy
formulation. The study, therefore, should spell out measurable indicators of
success, both in quantitative and qualitative terms. The quality parameters
of the training to be imparted under the scheme, would be particularly impor-
tant for ensuring the employability of the training output and thereby estab-
lishing the credibility of the program. Evaluative criteria suggested by the
study should include both formative monitoring and siummative judgments. In a
developmental program a premium will have to be placed on mid-course adjust-
ments. The study should therefore anticipate problem areas and suggest
possible ways to resolve the difficulties to be encountered. To facilitate
subsequent training policy formulation, the study should indicate the profile
of a data base including the type of information to be collected during the
pilot project and the type of instruments for collecting the needed informa-
tion.



-73-
ANNEX 8
Page 12
STUDY OF DEMAND FOR ADVANCED (LEmEL 1) VOCATIONAL TRAINING
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Obiective
1.      To determine short, medium and longer term needs of industry for
Level I training, to prepare a program of courses to meet these needs, and
to identify adequately resourced institutions to provide the training.
B. Qualifications of Consultant Firm or Agencv
2.      The agency selected to conduct the study should have had considerable
experience in the preparation, organization and analysis of industrial sar-
veys, including interviewing techniques and questionnaire formulation. The
team selected should include members with considerable experience of voca-
tional skill training and extensive experience in a vocational skill based
industry. Some members of the team should be qualified engineers. An exten-
sive knowledge of the problems facing vocational training in Pakistan is
essential.
C. Terms of Reference
3.      The consultant agency will:
(a) conduct a survey of private and government industrial employees in
all Provinces of Pakistan to determine the training needs for Level I
training in the short, medium and Iong term. The survey should
include small, medium and large employers of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower. The survey should be conducted by means of a suitably
structured questionnaire with follow up interviews to a selected
number of various sized firms;
(b) analyze the data collected from the survey and make recommendations
on the nature of the skill training needs of industry in terms of
Level I short course provision. This should include recommendations
on the content, duration and nature of the courses to be provided and
an estimate of the resources both physical and human required to
implement the proposals;
(c) survey the vocational training institutions to determine the capacity
and capability to meet the identified needs and make recommendations
on any improvements needed to meet the perceived needs; and
(d) undertake any other investigations necessary to prepare a program of
courses at advanced level to meet industrial requirements for voca-
tional skill training.



-74-
ANNEX 8
Page 13
D. Duratin of the Study D16 months
E. Form of Final Report
5.      A detailed report on the proposed program for Level I courses,
including anticipated eurolluents, staffing, firms likely to participate,
location and timing of courses and proposals for evaluation and/or accredita-
tion. Attention should be drawn to any risks or benefits of the proposed
program.



-75-
ANNEX 8
Page 14
STUDY ON OCCUPATIONS AND EMPLOYMENT POSSIBILITIES
IN WOMEN IN NON-TRADITIONAL AREAS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Rationale
1.      The population of Pakistan was estimated at 85 million in 1982, with
females accounting for about 47%.  The total labor force (10 years of age
and above) in that period was estimated at 25.24 million with an annual
increase of 3.2% over the last four years. Of the average labor force par-
ticipation rate of 30%, only 4.3% are women as compared to 52% for men.
2.      In recent years, the country's economic performance has improved,
with expansion and rapid growth rates across all sectors. The gross domestic
product increased by 5.7%, with rates of 9.2 for industry, 4.4% for agricul-
ture and 5% in the service sector. However, social development, specifically
in education and health services, has been slower than all the other sectors.
This economic recovery and exDansion is expected to increase the demand for
educated and trained manpower. It is therefore important to harness the
economic potential of the female population.
B.  Obiect ve of the Study
3.      The study is intended to contribute to the nr-ioual effort of
developing women by generating kno-wledge and first-hand information which
can be used as a basis for action in formulating policies and strategies to
promote and enhance female participation in the country's economic develop-
ment activities.
C. Uses of the Study
4.      The study would be useful in the preparation of action programs aimed
at generating employment opportunities for women. Specifically, the findings
would be used for the formulation of training programs for women that would
lead to wage employment. The findings and information to be generated by the
study would be utilized by policy-makers and planners for development program
formulation and evaluation, and by trainers in the development of training
programs/curricula which are not only responsive to the needs o' the employ-
ment market but also socially and culturally feasible within the Pakistani
wonan's milieu.
D. Scope of the Study
5.      The study should, first provide an acceptable operational definition
of non-traditional occupations in order to establish a theoretical framework
for inquiry/investigation into the following areas:
(a)  status of women vis-a-vis the state-of-the-art of education
and training in the country;
(b) identification of the target group;



ANNEX 8
Page 15
c'   Neat it&cAttoM and a*#eam-ent of demnd of the employment market;
4   baei.-M. of cr*i*Lua uted. of woen to meet the identified
Js _ J *t the p9ov.ent market;
-.   .a^we,at .re. constraints that could potentially hinder
oamea * at " In*o the employment market; and
1    .|*^*r'.c.<o,   .-if *tratltv  and alternatives for overcoming
c~~-       J~- Lit Io :-:A
*e at 'S> .t.: r. '         . 1 e nAO ! oMA   cop .  Rowever, investigation should
s 4rL64J V" *t !?Oe 7r-t :n_;&'w e*& byv conducting interviews and
_-t n,->^-.Si l*t,)etslz,re-  '       ~*e e  pop-uation in the Punjab, Sind,
*4..'a^@*,f  a{  ?Wr_ Aa zi:-rr.ra  *urvey a.ould &Io be conducted in each
go.vs,-ma   n.r          av.,r ^.de  and their attitudes on the employ-
n * . r e



-77-
ANNEX 9
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUMKARY
A. Expert Services (Foreign)
I                                  I                    Staff Months
lComponent/Area of SpecializatioulTotal1FY871FY881FY891FY90IFY91IFY921FY93IFY94IFY951
I      JD                            _  _______  I1|_  1_ 1|  -I -I -  I    I
1      11IUNDP                     I
IVOCATIONL TRA:NING                |     |    I    I    1    1    I    I    I    I
I                              I      I    I    I     I    I    I     I    I    I    I
IChief Technical Advisor           1721  6 1 12 112 112 112   12    61 
ITraining Media Development        11216161              1 6        1    1    I    I    1
IAssessmeut and Testing                91  31  3 1 31    I    I    I    |    |    I
IManpower Planning                 1   613131            I    I    1    1    1    I    1
IMonitoring and Evaluation         1   61    13 131            1    1    I    1
IINSTRUCTOR TRAINING               I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
l~~ ~     ~~             ~~~~ _  _         I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I   
I RefrigerationlAir-Conditioning 1 12 |    I    I    I    | 12 1    1    1    1    1
I Industrial Electronics           I  12 1    1    I    1    1 12 1    I    1
IAPPREUTICESHIP TRAINING           I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I            I
_I                                I     I    I     I    I    I     I    I    I     I    I
I In-Plant Training Development  1 15 1 3 I 12 1    1    1    1
I  VIDA
I                                  IItD '  III{     I    I    I     I    I    I     I    I   
WUOMENOSTRAININ~GI                      I     I    I    I     I    I    I     I    I    I
I~~ I                                 I    I     I    I    I     I    I    I     I    I
Instructional Training             1121    1    16161               1    I    1    1 6
ICurriculunmt Development          1 241  6 1121  61    I                1    I    I
IMonitoring & Evaluation           I  121    I    I    I 3 i 61  3
__  _    __                                       ____ __ ____I I____ _  I_  1    Il _  I  l_  _l_ 
I                                  I 192 1 27 1 51 1 30 1 21 1 42   15 1 6 1    1    1
UIDP - 144
CIDA - 48



-78-
ANNEX 9
Page 2
B. Expert Services (Local)
I  I                 Staff Months
IComponent/Area of SpecializationITotalIFY87IF8IFY89IFY90IFY91IFY92IFY931FY94IFY951
I       UNDP                        I     I     I     I    I    I     I     I    I     I    I
IVOCATIONAL TRAINING
ICurriculum Development             1  241  6 112    61    1    I    I    I    I    I
IAssessment and Testing             I   916131 6    3                 I    I    1           1
I Civil Works Inspection            1  721 12 112 112 112 112 1121                      
IConsultants (Studies)                 80 112 128 1401           1    1    I    I    I    1
I                                   I      I    1     E    I     I    I     I    I    1     I
|INSTRUCTOR TRAINING                I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I    Z    I    I
IDrafting and Design                1  121      I    I    I    1121         1    1    1
IAPPRENTICESHIP TAINING             I     I    I    I    I    1    I    I    I    I    I
IIn-Plant Training                  I  15    31121         1    1    I    I    I    I
CIDA                       1      I     I    I     I    I     I    I     I          f
g                         ~~~~~~~I  I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    1
|WOMEN'S TRAINING                   I     1    I    I    i    I    I    I    I
I                                   I     I     I     I    I    i     I     I    I    I     I
Instructional Training              1121        1    16 161           I    1    I           1
----I    ------      -       -1-- ---- --  --  --             --  ---I-   -I- 
224 139   67   64 1S 124   12
UNDP= 212
CIDA = 12



-79-
ANmI   9
Page 3
C. Fellowships (International and Reftional)
| I                    Staff Months
IComponent/Area of SpecializationlTypelTotallFY87IFY88IFY89IFY9OIFY91I1FY921FY93IFY94PYF951
I VOCATIONAL TRAINING             |    I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
I                       ~  ~~I  I   I     i    I    I    I    I    I    I     I    I
ICurriculum Development           Il|  61    13   31 3
IAssessment and Testing           I II   61    161    1    I    1    I    1
IHedia Pevelopment                |I    121       161       I    I    |33  1 3
|Monitoring and Evaluation        | I1 18i1                         9    9
!INSTRUCTOR TRAINING              I    I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
I                               I.   I     I    I    I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I
| Instructor Trng. Methodology      I I   241    I    1    112 1121    1
|APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING          I    I     I    I    1    1    I    I    I    I    I    f
I                                I_          I    I    I    I    I     1    I    I    I    I
I In-Plant Trng. Organization    | II  101          101    1    I    I    1    1    1
*In-Plant Trcg. Curriculum       I I      61    1 61    I    I    I    1    I    1    I
|Industrial Attachments           I RI  221    I 8 1141    I    I    1    I                1
i                                 i    I     I    I    I    I    I     I    I    I    I    I
|WOMEN'S TRAINING                 I    I     I    I    I    I    I    I    1    I    I
i                                 i    I     I    I    I    I    I     I    I    I    I    I
|Study Tour - Womens Voc.        I    I      I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
T Training Institutions           IRI   15!    I    I    1 12 1 3 1    1    1    1    1
--------------------  ----I----1---- --1----I----1---I -1----
I  TOTAL                         I    11191         39 117   24 124 112| 3             
I : International -  82        R : Regional = 37
UNDP - 104
CIDA - 15



-80-                           ANNEX 9
Page 4
D. Local Fellowships (In-Country Traininif)
Staff Months                     I
IComponent/Area of SpecializationlTotal1FY87 IFY88IFY89IFY90FY91 IFY92IFY93 IFY94IFY951
IVOCATIONAL TRAINING               I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
ITraining Instructors of           I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I             I
i New Centers                      1 29761    1    1    1 9601 4801 8641 6721    |    I
IFSTRluCTOR TRAINING             |      I    1    I    |    I    I    I    I    I
I Training Instructor Trainers   I 8641    I    I    I    I    I    1 2881 2881 2881
IAPPRENTICESMIP TAINING            I     I    1    I    1    |    I
I                                  I     I     i    I    I     I    I     I    I    I     I
I Workshops and Seminars           1   541    1 6 1  241  121  121    1    1    1
IWOMEN'S TRAINING                  I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
I         .                              I     I    I    I     I    I     I    I    I     I
I Training Instructors of WVTC   I 11041    1    I    I    1 8401 2641    1    I    I
I       TOTAL            ____               _ 4     I __                 _ I              I _  I 97211332111281_9601I28__I
I       TOTAL                      | 49981    1 6 1 241 9721l332111281 Y601 2881 2881



-31-
tswlAc issue  ow  AKITAN
Bucos woTahca T3AMIG  OwaJCT
TABLS 1: SUI4X  oF CoSIS  ?IM  Tom
b3. cuts                                               Total
am  _7            mm        RIF".    'urn      *2/2. _2,93    93,94         .      o. . conan gm __03
1111011 TRIIIIII           inw ME r^;   r
a.uau . .5m . _~    r    s  ar
CU1111. TnIPS . IIFsPI   Mg CE lEls HE                    2,944.0  13.43.51  42339.4e 50,363.78 51,629.7 24.562.17 7.444.45 1.195L61 3I.M.6l      201.575.30 122,31.04
COrAT nIlIgII5  *IS .       SSg9   43 (EIVES5113          2,494.14  9.M.73  30.362.54 31,0.7 33.23143 17.137.61 5.41.6 6.46.41 &7.a4              143323.55  u7s.26
11rCT2.T Mm   . Ksi.ms Ki           n NFP                  1,744.41   .3W.N  24.-4.42 31.415613 29.11.14  11.51.34  4.36.42 4.414.72 4.114.72     221.44.29   7.4dI.65
uWATiM    TUiS    .          ElW1 11is  IE   MASLtWTU     [.586.31  6,13.52 17-907.11 38,W6.72 29.31.16 13.68.17  3.53.47  4,124.26 4.124.26      146.554.96  6.61.34
So-ToLal mrtm. TMM   * hLMVE LO I         Gll5              1,661.91 37 .5   15.303.52 144,307.97 144.331.00 63.16.29 20.6.29 241-7.011 24.441.43  513.157.111 3566.29
3. SCOI    13l14I5 * (3II  15EW  EK1S12  'EvVNS
sCIn         TUNIS * EI 2 11511 LCEIN  SFE91I5.           11,92.53  3.43F.2   2.014.97  1.49.91  1.439.91  1.439.91   719.9       -               12.43.40    715.61
OIfTIS.I T _N    . E ll f 136 19111 COEf S 98IE                  - 41125.29 78.713.?! 2294.      2.0113.52  2.03.  2.033.52 2433.55 2,324.06      153.94.02  9.403.97
WWUKL  TUSDII  * E       l111  EaStIIC CEIES SIM                 -  7,011.43  12.-5.46  3.544.22       -         -        -        -        -      23.D-.10  1.443.3
WcanUl t19818   *   395 BITTIIC CBlls CP                         -  2W67.29  4,945.03  1.343.65        -         -        -        -        -      3.9.!7    54.22
nninL TMUm  * EIII; IEIllIS CElllS MJfUlSTIm                     -  3,933.35  7.669.74  2N42       460.43   460.43   460.43   46.43   52S.21       1639.65  [.001.63
SO-lol STUN. T52I5 l * ( IPP91 UflTISGCflfERS                1.935353 53.21.56106.33.46 311.05.53  3.93.90  7933.311 3.213.95  .492.99 2.54.21      215377.1  1315.82
C.   uhITI[P 1IIIII
11413IINP 1WAD     FE                                      391.39  1.565,52        -        -         -         -       -        -        -       1.956.94    119.t4
wPlIIIIOIP T IGM"                                            M3.0M 12.Z2j7    927.45    335.9      8S.94    003.38   80l.3   0.31   103.3s   7,317.59    479.39
UoTinoU     WADNG g3o                                       462.94  1.153.57  1-27.335    93.45    93.45   M9.    9*.9   9."             5J.        3,527.52    520.'2
5F0110311  T3PP; 3.9j1.                                     439.36    23.27    417.60    313.3    303.2    303.5   303.33   343.33  303.5S          2932.41    179.07
jFfIIC        13101 51055760                               439.36   233.27    36S    33.53    303.53    343.53   303.5    U3.5   303.53            20.66    115.97
9*-Total l9DfIIUEII?P T13                                    2.56.13  4.460s33  3,8.0  2.311.45  2.36t.t5  2.-3633  2.36.33 2.33.J3 2*336.33         24,144.12  1.474.90
I. DISTaICII wMNt
*56a3  lIUII  FEES.                                              -    544.90  27.611 35.619.12 23-09.40  2.402a55 2.1=.41 2.651.11 2.713.2!       52.Z3.11  3.210.34
*-TO   1ISIICllit   _1                                             -    544.90  2.7514.6  15610.3F2 23.054.40  2.4402a5  2,822.41 2,631.13 2.713.25  52.353.18  3.2D.34
E. MM wamNs
1W T3 5 FDA                                                      -    719.9   1.50273  1.502.73  1.01994    719.96   359.13        -       -       53.12       359.52
MO ramls pajg                                                       1.04.00  7927.47 17.939.93 11.611,37  2:742.5 3317 3.3212*  3,321.3            51.34.56  3.13,3
5 131 5 2                                                        -  1.402.54  5-.96 1312,02.94  2.71249  13425.29  1.6413 2 I- ..93 164.93         2.317.121  224.14
too3  TUNIS 3.11.?                                               -      3.73  4.072.75  7.348.97  2,644.1  1.021.16  .176.15 1.176.5 1,176.5      19.31.4A  1.19143
no35 T111S111111111  5                                              i.ST5?I.25   1.*45.51  9.524.71  2,733.2 1.01 1,5   2.353.21 1.532M   1.3532   25,3U.3 D  ..S0J2
Sb-ToItat IUNI                                                     -  625.55 zs365.a 4.4.33  20n35   7.042.31 7.637.24 m7 .n  7.0.10                1a5.m?    7,43
r. mIIt  CM111 -
ll4WlT enn11113 Fsl                                              -    351.79    332.79    352.79    351.79    31.7   3n..79   351.79   351.79      2,.4.34    37I.92
fI TNI CIVIL S     SW                                       196.       73.57    144.45    15202    313.50    245.3   104.0    13.0    5343 1SljLJ.20            61.13
985T CIVL 111115 9.F.7.                                     1968       73.57    24.5    155.02    330.50    205.3t   14.05   53.80    53OI3        .111.3U     89.10
[VISIT ClIVL  S  IIIIST                                     19.        71.57    144S    152.2    [Ut.5S    2.3    1044d5    533    53.l             1.u.20       9.10
SOTM  CIVIL mms  mot                                        19.331    73.57   1t4.5    155.2    180.50    20.3   104.4    53.801   53d              1131.20     69.10
S13rTaal _uis1 non. II                                         737.52    66.06    77.9    Mzs  1.073.79  2.175.72   767.99   564.12   564.12          7.39.15    448.3
S. _lIE      o     F is
lusT IK  (iIS RS.                                           39.911   719.96    359.9          - .    401.15    401.95   443.95   40.95   40.W5     3.4443    212.7
lUStS 10 COil  111111                                       223.38        -         -         -    433.2    644.26   530.73   457.19   515.92      2,9.76    172.5u
l_SIS   G lmls 01.11.P.                                     223.3                   -         -    20.45    475.24   377.5    432.tb   464S        2,263.21     33I6
IuII  I(Ills 3SjD4a                                        223J.         -         -    12.2    217.73    20.12   31.    368.79   419.12          1,972p    120D
_T5  01M  mi   aSt                                          22z.3a        -         -              571.52    634.43   312.s3   435.7!   5111.7     2402.56    171.14
SO-oalB ld_   D  43 WEllS                                    1.273.51    719.9    351.91    157.26  1,9.6  2-431.80 2.0.47 2,1.73 2.34.3             1317.11    ns15.9
N. NIn !   -         _A315
luST IS6 IT31  FI .                                         512.33    63.25    921.4    6V.14   5s7.        567.    567.89   567.19   567.3        5511S.63    33.22
_luT  11  TOS1 SlUl5                                        433.26    492.43    31.0    477.41    407.76    409.76   400.76   409.76   409.76      4.2l.93    260.35
luST    S       MOM _3A 5 3.F. P.                           397.13    463L3     737.73    45.13    337.49    337.4   337.4    337.4    37.4        3,63.77    2 3
_wTrnS    S 1S 15131  502SIl                                3644    445.51    716.81   354.16    316.51    316.51   116.51 .   16.51   316.51      3.D5.3    214.73
lu_GhT _3    13115mm                                        369.54   0A.71      0.60    349.n    292.31    222.31   203.31    2      1  2322       3.242.34    190a
SO-Tota Iu        D S T mom  1531                            2.0319  7.463.3   3166.4    2.243.a0  1.9116   1.13.%  1.913.96 1.923. 1               20,240.79  1-236645
2. lusT Em
lu     T Ea80E21 Fil                                      2.80,0  5.940.n  hDtB.4t  e31.15  6.215  3751.                  -        -       -       31.20.7n   1.9,914
SO-Total rA tAE       fl EWT                                 2.16040  5,940.49  647346   6.25.25  6.25   3,751.19           -        -        -      31,215.73  1.99.94
J. snalE
S31011E95                                                   12.4    23.26    413.60           -                                    -                   7.5      51.17
9*Toa  5101S                                                   3344    293.26    43.80          -         -         -       -        -                  8      37.6  5.17
Tow  133 01                                                   19.It54.73 113.124.11 25.5L45 2J0C)6.21 2CS745.21 t0.97n15 42,516.64 430.54.  44.69.51   1.03197.11 05304.21
i*A_Cu  ra,sos                                              14A3.40A IO.93.  253711.74 24,152.75 19.22.12  7,S5.21 2654.66 2.826.M  2-07.76         97490.3  5.93.54
Pric E       _mtaa                                          2.20S.2 26,354.95 3721'.31 106.117915 119,013.76 53.6101 2.379.25 3.*67.n7 341,67.56    47532.73 21.544
Tatwl  F ICU151                                               2347.6 23"1.f 37.4l20.51 3111011.11 333.971.7  150235.17 70,05.54 77,248.3J 12,244.3   1.603.660.21 93,330.3
Tun                                                         2M31.%  2103.44 77.12.17  1.137 60,74144 22.914.71   72.33    4t.44 1,022.30           260.1L7  145.a.1
FWaota E1l_                                                 3746.1  67.40.01 16"4115.U 141-6  137,097.52 MO  231036 6,2417.4 04 S17.r.  5.403*      5"s11.c.  331150.69



-82-
ANNE 10
Page 2
ISLAMIC RunUuLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIORAL TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE 2: SUMNARY OF COSTS BY CATEGORIES OF UEPENDITUE AND TIME
Totalk Includirm Contimnwies                              Totals Includins Continuuims
(Local Currency Million)                                       IUSS Hillion)
WU87 e71S8 98/89 B9/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94M   Total   98/7 87M  S8189 89o/90   9  91/92 92n3 93/94 94/5 Ttal
_  ===  = =                         =  -- = -----== = = =_ = = = = ==
1. INET      CMSTS
A. CIIIL US                  7.41 50.97 109.56 132.49 95.87 15.92    -    -    -  401.21  0.42 2.38 6.13  7.48 4.95 0.90    -    -    - 22.67
B. FUNITINE                     -     -  3.10  9.21  9.25  2.91    -    -    -   24.38        -    - 0.17 0.52  0.52 0.16    -    -    - 1.38
C. PROFESSIIMIL FEES         2.96  5.29  6.80  7.68  5.03  4.16    -    -    -   31.92  0.17 0.30 0.38 0.43 0.29 0.24    -    -    - 1.81
D. FIRE1N EXERITS            2.Y9   6.95  4.99  4.27  9.58  3.61  1.89    -    -   33.29  0.17 0.39 0.28 0.24 0.49 0.20 0.11    -    - 1.38
E. INTEOEATIONML FELLOIPS       -  3.22  1.56  1.60  1.83  1.28 0.27    -    -    Y.75        - 0.13 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.07 0.02    -    - 0.55
F. LOCAL FELOIWIPS              -  0.0z  0.07  2.87  4.20  3.74 3.33  1.04 1.09   16.36       - 0.00 0.00 0.16 0.24 0.21 0.19 0.06 0.06 0.92
6. LOCAL EXPERTS             0.32  1.13  1.18  0.59  0.72  0.56 0.59  0.61 0.64    6.32  0.02 0.06 0.07 0.03 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.36
H. EIlPIEDNT                    - 75.70 232.03 200.22 178.58 68.08    -    -    -  754.60     - 4.28 13.09 11.31 10.10 3.85    -    -    - 42.62
I. VEIUCLES                  4.54  1.29  0.42  1.56  2.4?      -    -    -    -   10.29  0.26 0.07 0.02 0.09 0.14    -    -    -    - 0.59
J. NOOS                         -  0.17  0.19  0.65  1.87  1.33 0.86    -    -    5.07        - 0.01 0.01 0.04 0.11 0.0B 0.05    -    - 0.29
K. MANAEMENT EQUIPENT FEE    2.59  7.64  9.53  5.31  9.93  6.27    -    -    -   45.29  0.15 0.43 0.54 0    0.56 0.35    -    -    - 2.56
Total INESTIWIT COSTS          20.81 152.37 368.40 370.46 308.35 107.77 6.92  1.65 1.73 1.338.47  1.19 8.62 20.79 20.92 17.43 6.09 0.39 0.09 0.10 75.63
11. RECUNT COSTS
A. OPERPATON MD MAINTDIWE    0.69  0.S8  2.14  2.60  4.65  7.08 9.14 10.75 11.73   49.64  0.04 0.05 0.12 0.15 0.26 0.40 0.52 0.61 0.66 2.81
D. 54RIES                   1.89  2.04  5.94  6.29 16.95 27.25 40.40 48.55 51.46  2D0.54  0.11 0.12 0.33 0.35 0.95 1.54 2.28 2.74 2.91 11.34
C. TAUIE STIPBIS               -     -     -      -     -  1.37 3.23  3.76 3.93   12.29      -    -          _    - 0.08 0.19 0.21 0.22 0.69
3. CSNAUE NATERIBAL         0.11  0.12  1.64  1.77  4.13  6.66 10.36 12.54 13.41   50.73  0.01 0.01 0.0Y  0.10 0.23 0.38 0.59 0.71 0.76 2.87
Toal RECIUNT COST               2.69  3.03  9.62 10.64 25.62 42.35 63.13 75.60 90.52  313.19  0.15 0.17 0.54 0.60 1.45 2.39 3.57 4.27 4.55 17.71
Totl PU.EtT COSTS               23.50 155.40 378.02 381.11 333.99 150.12 70.05 77.25 82.24 1'651.66  1.35 9.79 21.33 21.52 18.88 8.49 3.96 4.37 4.65 93.33
Jnuanr 249 1996 13:46



Wet  g6    c. A.e             e.g        W.        :1_1       erg       e I           t-i       .1lI        WIP          gga        cc-i       eel         rie          -         we         cz-e       -                              mzm-
r'  ' .   Igie            -          ga'       art                               st'g s c-    Ile       ri-i         cc-a        Wi-       U-,         111,4       om_       Cli       N-9.0 
Walls         WIWI cc- re-    :.-    g  Are          t        s-         s,          ge          W          i             -         ge*l;cc-               Sri         Wri       are         WIr        W.                        --O LI         aa
rca   5.   a-IL.  el-s    *Zi  di-.  erg    si-I      ce*g~~~~1   iAS         asg        us1sm                     e           e          r                                                                                 %- , e. 
.-"    '-s    Wi.c  s W.       rgre 11 e11us                                         ee.        ge- WS-or.-s                         t-c are                A         A.e                                                        gm ACMusaeiteIgg s.
it's   ri    ege              -          r-         an        g-         rg          e-          i,        e-             eu        e*            I         m          v           -          v alI                               e"  now
we     ri    IE                          ere       e-1        . sr.                rnrn        ti-        a-u  1g                  egg "pe I--IwW M"                            uwe                    -                           mmalon
WI  WK  We   D-0  We  -a     90-1       'Ili        W.                                                         we                    we                      IKVAK"  6- ~~~~~~~~~~~~mea e m  -ft
Wu   *-e    -le    mmI   Ulm            M6.1       am         MNi       55            .e0       Wre        Ir-a          all        wre        e.l         lIe         el-        *.e.       *C          WI                   tm  Ulea" Plea
fe    555   Cc-f  -   -         -  ~     ~      ~ ~-- ----  -----                 ----- -                                                                                       
ASee   ret   r-n                         C.        r-   rre-ses-i                               -           -            -                                  -          -          -          -ein 
.1-       as zei                     ci                                                                 werg g       gm -e rwesU'seC's  ge,-s                        '        IS         -          -              Mg  a          7e-ag
re-c   rat   W-m:                        -                      '-C.-                at-        -                                   -           g-          -          -          -          -                                         N Ma
Ira ig   :r-              -                                         -                                                                                                                                WS  - - --          .4.  e mae
uwe   rig    We-s                                                                                                                   -          -            -          -          -          -          -l
.r'-e   s-se   ac-gare*-t..-M                                                                          - a W S                      -"                      -          -          -                                              aswasi, .e
:V.   1,11I  cv:                                                                                                                                                         vaniso~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  me-.
WI    `l   Z.G.e   gmhaieMd ClW                                    elaeUNW               ili       Mi                                                                                                                                    o i-s U  ie  U  WVae m
e m   mUd  am  mm  esbam  mm  e m    -   e m  e m       m m    rem             e m                   e m         m m    e m~~~~~~~~~~~ass maum  .
7-      7Z           d           --    e m                                       e m  -"                                          ---- w "-.  --           -- _       _    _     _          an       I-s
-- ----       sl ms  mum          --      -    --.-                ---"M - M = m so, aepu -m           sl            n         a    Fs        lo mm SE  e m            -m    u,  e m         mmmI,13
sea                 eecee              ON    ,     m,mm  eem                          aa w        m     - IN I,ms ~                  'm ,,           N,m       ~     .2
cc-c  1-5  .1      we      -      ~~~~~     ~~~a-ri  am.    ean              g.             e-                               ,        eg .          -         e-e       -          eug-I rc                             Mer                                 seal
* U   e:-eg   eu-rn   re-gat   a-s      Wgm      ffe             X.              rr             -l            e e..SrgZ                                =-a        ia-e       WA-S      ft-og          W=-r       a-ag       Ulm                       um   ea  g
a: i          ..-    1.H-    a.-.    In'    gc       c-      .          u-              art-          cc-s           g-c               rr-        a.e         WA-        ic-u        W.-       ti-ce         Om5         a-,"      trn-legkm
A.ccc .c.              ae       ar      cc         m              s:             W:             Ws-           re-I              WIu        a.-         gele        geeIS    ivg         liag          :-sII      a-si        wear                             P-,-
W. -            -      c-                g                       -                -             -              -                II'eW r~  WA  E.,                   W        -          A-.I          Ie-        eLf         Area                MI          om Ei
Is'e I    :        -                              --                             -                                          -           -           -             -                         -                                      mama lmm-
...   ........   .......   .                                                                                                                                          -   -------         e  m  l    e m  .
ce              l     L         .g              le        -              -a              -t            eV             -                 If        ee          r-f           -e                  nar          t-n          .g        r-.li
cc.           r-       -       eI               -          ss           e- . &V   ws                            ;S-                               -           -           -  ,.  K-s-I- u's                                                        ebs      i nieupeini
ge-c    a-:  -   -   -      -              ag                -          -           -           -         cc-e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t s  -S  -geao     mm. 6
d.c  :t c    e--:    ge-I  ga-i  -  -  -           -              -                 -          -           -           -         -          ce-f          5*l        a-c         err~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zt  WC W%  m ~      '
aggeec ama eggs.aegeeal-tiels maema agan.   mogm                   io =me                       UNtegem4mm      are        .   mmW  OAzeg    ineiu    sacn  $MD.   eme mm ime     Elat cm mom F
- ...............-------                       ----          -"-Mam    -                                                                                        - m w    min   .m                  "Nieele    -   -ises   - Samsau  - ms
24.1m -P"             ae"m                                  mmemma                                               01gMa                           imam mesa                       ~               lot
------ ----_-_                            alm   4m  aemarm  - aom     maKma
aeum   einrcma aim~slume Nuni3amieI-e:
Jo             11mlnmiuie 
C .egIltII        3idl                                                                                                        Vu



SICOIS VOCATIONAL T3AIUII4  PUJiCI
immono m.      c PoM o m.             omo
-- -- ----                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Local (1iC1. bAlMs a
loyl    I  0.w.1~~~~  I        VA0      I       ANtU       I    f1         I    btm,.      3    for. ECudi    Tom)I    Ton.
A. UMV*L0 . 11313124 . KVE13.14 WV M33lI
IgA1ImW  11333143. KVEIWUU 3EV 1133393 PlMS                  12.16542 42.67           -      -      201.74    1.12          -     -  &.3.706 23.21 N1.574.44 19."    041.22I    9.53.13  2.?69.31
3101133  13*33131 * 3433*33  134 113  5109                    4,01.4? 22.41   3.001.40  30.75       130.8     1.o           -     -  4.39.44 2273 12.419.19 33.53   4.32700         &.643.2  I.M5.67
31*I134L 1330345K   K 343139  NEW 34 W I' 93                 I .013.6130.20          -      -      103.91    0."3  60.40.2 02.72  2.772.2  26.0  13.01.59  3I.4    3.L33           5,493.4  1.492.36
31*1133. 1131h243I . 1(9E31r6 VEl MWiEDS BALICH1T               953.5   .9.1          -      -       37.90    0.T.'  641.2.5  AS.94   221.23.1 2.2   9M.31.2   30.2    2,7M.43     5.413163  1.21U.13
5.3-ToUl 31*1133. P3231N6 . K11.3914 1(1 (1EN11                17.9413.!  34.95   3.1.46    .M3       539.30    1.05.  12.96.111 25.26 l1.332.  31.19 31.406.5   MO.0   14640.11    P7.344.13  7,9.97w
3. 316T133  1133314 . 3333IP343 11113 Willi
m*nTU        11333140 . 13,211N43 E111133 WNIll  98E33.                -              -      -      01.34  110.00           -               -     -     954  t.07        341.01       154.33        -
3=161333 11A13131 . 1313914 EDIS1143 CIO  I1.J4               3.13.67 44.72           -      -          -        -          -     -4.119.6  35.23  12.644.3  13.54   4402.73         MOM7.!  3.003.3
Y1I33.L 113I31  * 13119914 E1IS1143 Will' 5243                3,332.2  13.0           -      -          -        -                      02.90 22.40  3.95.5   2.05   1.104.0          193.35   032.9
VOIINL 131311  . 13139914 1135114 11E11' di                    493.43 43.00          -      -          -        -          -     -     222.24 32.00    73.0   0.23      M2.M          75.4     222.24
31011w  1131311 .133111143ISTI34  Will'Rs 36.ISTaa              M2.96 41.21           -      .              -                           2 7.90 31.79  1.3409.2  1.40     W2.4"        53.2      364.3
Sub-lotrl 3131133. 113113 * 10011124 E13S11P3 (1O113           13.612.3  42.29           -             9.34    5.64           -           .3.113I 22.37 17443.4  23.90    -042.04      3.140.0  4.843.41
C. N9313lTE3 3It 13114
93141E1331  1132314 rUE13                                          -      -          -      -      139.96   34.0           -     -                     139.90  0.13     113.99        3.17          -
~ W93311331  11331a  MMW                                        209.0  31.11          -              41.5     0.20      21.01  5.34    314.0? 57.3    M7."   0372        3113.2       Sam0       34.39
99311111311  13133143 SIN                                       239.392.44            .       -      4.73    5.2        22.61   1.49    421.39 31.22    732.93  0.79      34.90        23.24    24.70
90131111113  113314 P.3.F.1.                                  713.7 23.54           -      -       1.34    0.53       13.53  4.03      M 1 3.3 7.32    23.0  0.2        37.30       231.39    2.20
A3943111  Talmo14  t10311514                                    33.7 322.5            -              12M      5.02      11.53  4.43     143.30 3B.23    244.31  0.26      22.54       201.3      1.2
5.6,-Tot  34431113339 11313143                                    &045.90 29.72         -             22.93   12.33       34.48  4.14  1.9149313 53.4   2.039.37  2.19      309.3      1.51G.4     311.45
3. 14313110  113134
143F1OC1OR 113114 151E43                                     2.740.0357.38            .      -        .9     31.59       9.111  0.21  .460.92 30.63  4.770.22  3.12    1.031       2.3*5.13    070.2
5.6-total 10513134 1131334                                      2,744.2 57.39                          M ."9   11.59        9.31  0.21  1.440312 3.63   4.77022  3.13    I.7031        2.332      473.3
MD 31131443912064                                                   -      -     494.2  100.00          -        .          .     -         -          494.39  34        4331361       MM           -
NM3 11331"  3O6J3                                             2.92.13 41.93      339."   24.3           -               3.SIM   1.11   1.74041 JI3   4.577.42  4.90   I.4.3        342341    432.4
NM2  11313I43 511                                               953.6  41.4      31.59   27.41          .        .      24.0   1.3      922.44 39.91  2.3.0   2.47       497.22     14.532      212.3
091131314  .93.9j                                              042.0  31.75      =793  19.70            -               24.27  1.54    64203.  39.94  I.M0.6   3.13      430.8      3.13.2      Ism.
up"4 1311143 00FL1DSTm                                         942.66 44.0       324.03  135.34         -        .      20.27  1.23    NO0.1  39.30  2.234.    2.2         7.33     1- 2.  M.  M9.&I
1A.OLdo 33631T1al1o                                             4.512.49 B.94   2.412J3   23.4             -              1233.0    1.14  4.2nM31.7.   n1.274M5  12.03   2.34O22      7.46.2   1.63.0
F. WAD?K  CIU V=L
9313r!N CIMI NM  FE3MX                                              .                               201.14  43.00          -     .                    243.14  L.20           -       26.14 
UA001T CIVI OM 13                                              31.67 32.0           .      .          .        .       5.70  0.31      3.41,00.90     93.3   L.it       32.73        71.3      5.0
IWA3Tf CIVIL 1       310  .3.F.9.                                31.67 ISM.43                  -                         5 .70  0.3      30.44  0.9     93.39  f.13       12.73r       77.37     5.3
4331! a    NMVIL  34111331                                    31.67 13.03          .      .           .       .       S. 7   &.111    35.40, 00.90    93.3   0.13      32.73        77.37      5.v
9617IFou CI IRS PLUM                                          31.47 23.43          -       .          .       -       5.70  4.01      31.400,9        6.09 " .10,   i   32.73        77.T      La3
110-TotlN 3631301 CIVIL                                           22n0.69 3343           .      -     203.14   3.AO        23.C5  3s    53.0R 37.31    42.73  0.01           50.00       =313      23.5
RaNIT  433 Will' 0134                                           72.15 24.6            -      -      34.99   Ism0           .     .    122.344.15    209.90  0.22        00.3        17.90       Le3
iAUiOiT 431 1331t3 U1N                                          T1IM  U.72                           7.114  2149.        9.15  3.43      2M 33444.1    204.6   0.2        13.4        134.0      9.33
YinOIEF IN3 WIls 3.4.F.P.                                       47.43 313AS           .      .       14.4    0.0         9.15  4.3      2.99 5.2      21.4   0.2         X31.5       122.60     3.3
3U3Ta la1 go.13  IM.113310                                       5.42 31.13                          122.     7.03       9.15  4.99    1133.3 50.3     13.   3.23         29.29       1M.S       3l,
rA3IE39 439  Pil' flE                                           70.3? 20.70           .      -      50.47   21.4         9.15  3.0      127.3 41029    203.6  0.3         72.93       13397       .
S.6-Total  TOERf 47 Will'                                         53.23  27.3B           .            24.60   23.12        36.1  2.99    004.2 49.31  1.220.30  2.3       237.04        NO3."     3.69
113132T43I 1E90                                       167.59  22.30      29.22   0.10                  -       9.15  1.93    24LC3.475.2      474.4   0.51      3F.3         312.9    21.3
3AAuTf          1132414 Mll                                     204.5  20.3       47."3  33.1           -        .       9.15  2.5      230.2243    343.0   0.2          '3.3        272.4      Va.2
rA 30     ND  1132314 3.3.F.P.                                37.70 23.02      47.43  25.2                -           9.15  2.92    1632 53.74    313.2   0.24         V7."        2ZL67     21.13
MM=    P93  1132121 13ISTO                                      *.10  27.5       47.93  1.212           -       .       9.15  3.0      23.6 35.2       29.92  L3.2       05.29       211.2?    21.4
imo      mom 3231313 93.14                               74.10 20.33       47431  17.30              -           9.is  3.31      M111 I.M05     in0."   0.33      11.53         MS.9     22.5
W.jjj rA      30ET        11311T2430                              5.13  3.03       21.13  12.032                          45.77  2.05    9L4 3.6 -41I.721.46  3.03         533.5?     1.213.3   209.
z. MminoW GmIsT
r343113  23114331 0E5(t1                                      2.56.3  20.0                                       -          .     -                   2.5610.31  2.74   2.23.77       341.031 
WAlTal .inIE E0029113                                           2v54332000               -      --                                   _         _        2.WM.3   2.74   b.9.77          341.6
J. Simms3
140-140.SIIII                                                                                          VAT-594    24300              -                     59.43  OA&                      9.
otal l1,mooft                                                    41.27?.   43.5   0.54.29   4.93  2b.91.0        3.09  13.312.92 14.20 3. 43.622.02 MBI 92 M0M004     22.6l.49    44.13.0014.31.1U



-  -- -- --  --------
------------~~~----------------------------------------------------------------
tlg  E  ----------------------_                           r    _                          _                                 _    _ S           ____    i                          El-n
000~                      ------- u--                                   -----------------------  ---                                       -"------                     -------    -4!
:.        ---------------------------   ----------------------1----------------                                                                                            -----+  
E--------------------- -  -----------------r-------------                                                                                                               ----r 
i          -----------------s-----I---  - ------------------ f--------t----- -------- --                                                                                  -----r                        -
fiXj E            7   1 }                          ~~---------- -----f---i---------- ---i----------  -- ----------a- - TZ
sB,  |    _     _7__   l_    _    _                       _----------------|---- ------------- ------------------ --------
S ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ------                                        -----   ----------_    }                _------------------- -------------l  
E! lilt'   __ ___- ---------- II----i'-' 
I E   _      - _I_?    I                                                                               I_   _  __I-------------  _                     ---- -
--i                      ___   _                   _                    _   _   __ __-                          -------                                                                 ___--- --- --
E-----  ----------------------------    --------------------- -------- -------------- z$---
--~~- __    _1 _                                               _                                                                                          - 
---               -- --         -----It---- -------:--
---     ---------- ---------------------------------------------7--------  11l
--          --------------------------------------------------------  -
-- -    -                                                                -          -          --                       -          ----
---- --- --- ---- --- --------- --- --- ---.----- - -- - -- ------ --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ----!! .---
|                                                                           _U_ _                                                                                                        Si*,   ,0
--------------------------------- -----------------------------------------                                                                                  i..H!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a!I
-- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -                                                         --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --   - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -   -   - -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -    - -   -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  F
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     F :
--       -   -    -   -   - -   -    -   -   -    -   - -   -   -    -   -   - -   -    -   -   -    -   - -   -   -    -   -   - -    -   -   -   -    -1-                                 -1- -  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-  -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -
-   -    -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -    - -   -   -    -   - -   -   -    -   - -   -    -   -   - -   -    -   -   - -    -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -    -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - -   - -  -           j -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
3~-- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -                                                              --- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- -
- -             -   -    -   - ---             - -         -  -   -   - -    -   -   -    - -   -   -   -    - -   -   -    -   -   - -    -   -   -;--           - -    -
U, 
-- - - -- - - - -- - - --I                                       - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - -a
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --   -   --    --     --    --     --    --    --     --    --     - -   - -   --     -- 



:1 1'1I
t | a l  -----------------------------------------                                                           ----| |  ----------
2'    : i- ------------------- --------------_----_-_ _                                                              ----       _____________-
--          -  -  -   --  -   -  -  --    -  -  -   --   -  -  -   --   -  --   --   -  -------               ---         --   --   --   --
iZ 2 1~~-   --------------- --------- -------------------------..                                                  .............- ---  -------
R;  i--                -   -  --   -  -   -  --   -  -   --   -  -  -   -  --0          - - -----            ---  ---          -  --    -
-                --                                            -------------------                 .9-
t-  _-- 23-   ----------------------------------------------------------                                   3
7 -   It                --   -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -   --   -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -   -  - -                    ------- ---:-i
e!   !-'S----- ----------------------------------------------------                                           ---        --------
_.     -1s                                                                                                                                                -   
C        0                                                             -H -----  --                                               -
II  -                                     I-- - - - - - -
t  _~~~~                ~      ~~~~~ ~ ~               _                                                                       3 . .     i
_Th. t                                                                        _ 7_ 
' I I %  _            -   -  |   ~~~~~~~~I 
$ ~g~I                                                                                                               I l    
1  1 7-s---------------  ------       -  |-;-----  --    --  ---                                        -----
-1'-'  - -------------,---  -  --------------------!----- ---   --     -----                                      ..-   - -----          :1 
e  l          --   ---   ---    ---    ---   ---    ---    ---    ---------------  --                 --  --      ---       ---    ---   --
--1^5  ---     - ---------------------:               -    --------------                  --     ----     ---    ------
c   7 1 -   ------------- --------|-------------    ---                                 ----                    
I                                   -----------~~~~~~~~~                                                        E
V       -      --        -                                        I --- - -----      ------- -------                                               
Ei,I -'-ii,,}l------ -  -----------------  ---    __ ________________ -!
, ~      ~ - ,-----..---                                           -----'- ------------- -----------1- 1--- -- - -                                         1
*dZ!!'.a           1'                                                                                                                           3           1.. ' Il:' !
I-A                                                       -    --           --     ----           ---- ---- g. -------
I  V13  ~      ~          ~1------                                 ---------                      ------
P T '            --   -   -  -  --   -   -  -  --   -   -  - --1-            -   --   -  -  -   --   -  -   -  --   -  -   -
-; -I   -----------------------Ii-------------------
----- - - - --- ------ -- --- --- -- ------     -----      -- ---    -- ----    -----     -----
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- - - - - -
-   ------   -- ------- ---- ----------- -----------     ------- ----        -----------         ----- ------
------------------------------------------------------------------
- - - - - - - - -   - -  -  - -  - --   -  -  - -  -   - -  -  - -          7 -  - -  -  -  - - -   - - -  - - -   - -  -  - -  -   -



- - - - - - -   - - ---- -
1----  i-..SI:~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------
--    - - -     --- --  - --   -  --  --   -  --  -  - - - -  -  --  -  --  --   -  --  -
- ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~ ~~ -----------------------------
--    - - -  - - -  --   --  -  --   - - -  - - -  - -  -  - - - -  - - -  -  --  -
----1                                   --        ---------------------    I--------   --
I---
- - - - -   - -  - - - - -   - -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
h                                                                                       I !--- - - - - - -  *-- - - - - - -  
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------     ---------
gI                                                                                                    hi~~~~- -   - - -   - -   - - - - -- -     - -   *
I   ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    -         -- - -  --   -  --  -  -  --  -   - - -  -     
- ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~~            -   - -  -        -    - - --I-              - - -  - - -  -                 -     -- -
I                                       -~~~~~~~~~~I
I  I  - - - - MI-                      - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - - -  -  - - - -  -  - - - - -  - -  -I--- -                -
I  ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     - -  -  -  -  -  -  --       - - -  -  --   -  -  -  -  -  -    ----
ii  ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~~---------   ---------   --------------
S I                    'I~~~-   -  -  -  - --   -  -  --    -  --  -  -      - -  --  -  -  -                             -



-88-
ISLAKIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
ADDITIONAL STAFF AND SCHEDULE OF APPOINTMENT
Number to be Ayqointed                         Schedule of A,xpointuent
Grade                               ham1-  I              I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
Component/Type of Staff  (BPS) FederallPunjabl Sind I MMIF  Ichistani TOTAL  FY87IFY88IFY89IFY90IFY911FT92IFY93IFY94IFY95
NEW CENTERS
Principal                  18      -1121    8            61       SI    31              I     1 10 1 519 17 1           I
Chief Instructor           17      -1121    8            61         I    31        I1 10 1 51  -)I  J,I    I
Senior Instructor          16      -  124  I16  112  I10  I62                      I    I    1 20 1101II 181141
Instructor                 14      -    60I40    30I    251155                     I    I      50125 145 1351 
Adminiatrative Staff    12-1        -       6        3        7        145  j  813  1    1    1265 1151A~200 1203 1 
-  II370  Ii304  1 228..  190  1 1092   .                 351190 12L AL~1381 1266 1    1.
EXSTING CENT*ns                         I      I       I      I       I             I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
Senior Instructor          16      -    131    -i         -      6   I   19        I    119 1    1    I    I    1    I
lImstructor                14      -1261          -1        16       1 32          I    132I       I    I    I    I    I 
Workshop Attendant         11       -  I 13  1  -       -I       6   L.1. 19  ...L...1.ILL....I.....I .....I......I...I.....I.
- I    52       I         1 8   1   701            17   I    I     I    I    1    I
(NTDI)I                                       I       I      III                        I    I          I    I    I     I
Senior Staff Trainer       is      71      -      -I        I    - I    7                     I    I    1 7 1      I    I
Staff Trainer              17     271         I     I     -              27        I    I    I     1    1 27 1     1
Non-teaching Staff       16-1     33  1-                     I-          33             Ii       i      1 i33    i....
67  1 -I-1.....I - J67                           1J      . .i 1 67..
APPRUIMCESIIP TR.AINING                 I      I       I      I                          I     I    I    I    I     ! 
Deputy Director            1s      -  1  61    21            1    1      10      5 15 1       I    I    I    I    I    I
kasistant Director         17       -I  -1101    21    2   I 14                  7 17 1       I    I    I    I    I    I
Administrative Staff    12-1       -  I 17   IS 18       6  1  6   1  47    25 1 22 I    l1  1..1 .......
-  I 23  1 30  1.L9 .....9   I   71    37 1 34 1    IL.I.    I..1......
VONENSTRAINING (UTTCS)                  I      I       I      I        I            I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
Principal                  18      - 121  1  11  11    I    5                      I    1    1 1 141         I    I
Chief Instructor           17      -I    41    31   2 1   2   1   11               1    1     1 31 81        I    I    I
Senior Instructor          16      -1101    51    4              4   1 23          I    1     1 51 181       I    I    I
Instructors                14      -1201131    61    6   145                            1    1 13 132 1    I    I    I
Vocational Couuseller      14      -1    21    II    1           1   I    S        I    I    1 1 141         I    I    I
Administrative Staff    12-1        -     60.    24      20I   20   1  124          I..  1   24  1       i1.0I I    I
98I.  1  47  1 34I   34   1  213            1  1   A471166             iJI.1....
MANJAGEOE1EANDI                                I              I       II                 I     I    I    I    I     I    1
INPLMOETATION(VTI/PVTTJ                                                                                              
A. NEW CENTERSI                                I       I      I                     I    I     I    I    I    I     I
Joint Director           19      - Il          -     -                                             -  I  I
Deputy Director          18      - I-  IlI1  I   I   I   11 33 1                                           I    I    I
Aast. Director           17      4       1      2  1L2         1    10                            11I     I     
4      2.....   3  1L.3      2   1   14                          14...iIi.i.iI...    .
B.WOIMMS UNITS(PWTE)                    I      I       I      I       II II          I                   I    I    I    I
Director                 19       lI      I        I  -I    -   I    1         I1I         I     I                
Deputy Director          18      I1    Ii         i    I       1   I 5         2131                               
Aast. Director           17      3       1      31    21    2   I 11           7141                               
Admin. Officer           16       lI-          -I- -                  I    I  lI -I        I    I    I    I    I    I
Admin. Staff           12-1     12  1  4        9 ..18 1   8   1  41   25Id1I 17 1                ..A..I.....L.....
18  f16   i 13  1 11  f 11   1   59    35124!1             1    1           
C. MDNITORING AND                       1      1       I                                                             
EVALUATION (PPNEU)I                         I      I       I       I             I    I    1     I    I    I    I     I
Programer                17       IlIllIlIl                             5'   151                              
ResearcbhEconomist       17      111   -I  -I           -      - I      1        I I     I  II                 I     I
Statistician             17      -       I1I  1  I...    1I             4           4 
2.. 2 i...2 .1 2 ..          2   1   10        I 0 
D. CIVILWVORKSINPLEN.       M8      -     1111  1         1  11    I   4         4 1- I       I     I    I    I     I    I
TOTALS                          91  I 554  1 400  '288  1 267   1 1600    76168ig1 701402 1370 134831 2661    I



-89-
ANNEX 14
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
FORECAST OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Expenditures                Disbursement
ID& Fiscal Year             Semester    Cumulative        Semester    Cumulative
1987
1st (Jul 86-Dec 86)             0.67        0.67             0.27         0.27
2nd (Jan 87-Jun 87)             0.67        1.34             0.27         0.54
1988
1st (Jul 87-Dec 87)            4.39         5.73             2.49         3.03
2nd (Jan 88-Jun 88)            4.39        10.12             2.49         5.52
1989
1st (Jul 88-Dec 88)           10.67        20.79             5.63        11.15
2nd (Jan 89-Jun 89)            10.67       31.46             5.63        16.78
1990
1st (Jul 89-Dec 89)           10.76        42.22             4.50        21.28
2nd (Jan 90-Jun 90)            10.76       52.98             4.50        25.78
1991
1st (Jul 90-Dec 90)            9.44        62.42             3.43        29.21
2nd (Jan 91-Jun 91)            9.44        71.86             3.43        32.64
1992
1st (Jul 91-Dec 91)            4.24        76.10             1.57        34.21
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)            4.24        80.34             1.57        35.78
1993
lot (Jul 92-Dec 92)            1.98        82.32             0.65        36.43
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)             1.98       84.30             0.65        37.08
1994
lt (Jul 93-Dec 93)            2.18        86.48             0.75        37.83
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)            2.18        88.66             0.75        38.58
1995
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94)            2.32        90.98             0.81        39.39
2nd (Jan 95-Jun 95)            2.32        93.33             0.81        40.20
Closing Date : June 30, 1995



I!~~~~I ~I.                I    ~I                                 -0                               -  -    -  *-
I                                           0
|-                                         - 3-            - - - -
RS    "^"@^N-ZZ:;    68  21                     1    8    S  :  i  o  W    i  |    _   |R    i
tX ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~                                ~~~~~~~ -1  - -1  - - -_______________________-_-  --
a                                        S .S |  CE #,,,$  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aH   
I                4el 4  0  il  ___ _____ a L
| i l| f ffffffft! $t @1 "'^ u R n " X X ^ ^ > " |S .. 4
M1  * Q  Qx a af |_ IX %b |g  i_  _____ _ ______ ___._.   - 
| 5,at3X03gj"g a!,1Y WSx~~



-91-
ANEK 15
Page 2
TABLE 3  VHt3S VOCA1IOULL TRAINIIGC CETWES (5)
Procr-se                    Puaiab               Sind                 P             Saluchitan       Pakitan - Total
Capacity  Output  Capacity  Outwut  Capacity  Output  Capacity  Output  Capacity  Outu
Nechanical Draftin                64 lb     29       32 lb     14                                             96 b       43
Architectural Drafting            64 lb    29        32 /b    14        32 tb    14        32 Lb    14       160 lb      71
Computer 'Iput Operstor           24        22       12 -      11                                             36         33
StenolSecretary                  64        60       32        30       32         30       32       30       160        150
Telepbane/eeptionist             64 La    60        32 l-    30        32 Li     30       32 /a     30      160 La    150
Typi.stlk  Puebh Operator         64 lc    60        32 la    30        32 L      30       32 L      30      160 Is    150
Graphic Arta                     64 lb      29      32 lb      14                                             96 lb     43
Dresauaking/Tailoring            128 lb     57       64 lb    29        64 lb     29       64 lb     29      320 Lb    144
Dmeatic Appliance Repair         112 /a   106        56 /a    53        56 1-    53        56 in     53      280 La    265
liectro-Nechanical
Eq'ipMeCt Maintenance           64 lb    29        32 lk     14       _         _                 -         96 Lb     43
Total                    712       481      356       239      248       186      248       186    1,564      1,092
fa Siz month couraes.
Lb  Include1  first and second year enrollments.
TABLE 4  APPRENTICESEIIP TRAIING
.  l        1985           1            1995
Province       I Under Training I Output  I Under Training | Output
Punjab         I    1.873       1   500   1    4,800        1 1,280
Sind           f    1,862       I   500   1    4.050          I ,080
NWFP                   361      I   100   I        510      I   170
Baluchistan    I       -        I   -      I       500      1   165
i TOTL         I    4,096          1.100   1    9.860       1 2,695



-92-
ANN  15
Page 3
TABLE 5: ESTIMATED ANNUAL AND CUMULATIVE OUTPUT FROM PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
INumber        Annual          Number Cummulative 1987-95
of                           of
Centers Enrollment I Output  Years Enrollment I Output
_                            ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I __I
EXISTING CENTERS        11      1,504  1   1,233       8    12,032  1  9,866
(New Trades)
1                          -1
NE CENTERS                              I                            I
PUNJAB       -        4        640  I     545      5      32200  1  2,725
2        320  1     262      4      1,280  I  1,048
3       480  1    394        3      1,440  1  1,182
3       480  1    394        2        960  1    788
SUBTOTAL            12       1.920  I   1.595             6.880  I  5.743
SID                  3         480  I    394       5      2,400  I  1,970
1        160  I    131       4        640  I    524
2        320  I    262       3        960  I    786
2        320  I     262      2        640  I    524
SUBTOTAL -           8       1.280  1  1.049              4.640  1  3.804
UWF                   2        320  I     262      5      1,600  1  1,310
1        160  1     131      4        640  1    524
2       320  1    262        3        920  1    786
1        160  I     131      2        320  1    262
SUBTOTAL             6        960  1    786               3.520  1  2.882
BALUCHISTANl-         1        160  1     131      5        800  1    656
1        160  1    131       4        640  1    524
2        320  1     262      3        960  1    786
SUBTOTAL             1         160        131      3        480  1    393
5        800  I    655              2,880  1  2,358
______ _____ ______   ___ _ -   -I     _          -_ _    --
TOTAL NEW CENTERS      31      4,960  1  4,085              17,92U  1 14,787
____________________    -        _ _l         _                  -1X
WOMENS CENTERS                         I                            I
PUNJAB       -        1        356  I    239       4      1,424  I    956
1        356  j    239       3      1.068  J    717
SUBTOTAL      -      2                    _
SIND                 1        356  J      239      4      1.424  1    956
NWFP           -      1        248  J    186       4        992  J    744
BALUCHISTAN -1                 248  !     186      4        992  I    744
__________ __ _   -_    _I-- .      _I  __   _        _          _
TOTAL WOMENS CENTERS     5       1,564  I   1,089             5,900  I  4,117
___ __ ___ __ __ _     -    -   _  l   -    .    - - _ - _    _ l_
TOTAL ALL PROJECT              8,028  1  6,407             35,852  I 28,770
INSTITUTIONS                =       I -                  = = .



-93-
ADNEX 15
Page 4
TABLE 6 : ANNUAL AND CUMNULATIVE OUTPUT 1995
I                                 I    Annual 1995      1 Cummulative 1987-95 1
I                                 I                    l_              -   
|                                 lEnrollmentI Output  [Enrollmentl Output  I
E ExISTING VOCATIONAL TRAINING    I          I          I          I
ICENTERS (37)                     I          I         I           I          I
I a) 37 assisted under Cr.1109-PAKI  12,580  1 10,315  1 100,640  I 82,525  I
I b) Introduction of New Trade    1  1,504  1  1,233  1 12,032  1  9,866  1
I NEW VOChTIINAL TRAINING         I          I         I
I CENTERS (31)                    1  4,960  1  4,067  1 17.920Lal 14,787  1
I                        I ~       ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ I  I  I  I
I WOENS TRAINING CENTERS          I  1,564  1  1,092  1  3,496/al   2,440  1
i APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING         i  9,860  1  2.695  1 17,500  1  4,780  1
-                                 -          !         I           !          I
'TOTAL                      I 30,468  I 19,402  1 151,588  I 114,398
la Based on phased construction and varying years in start of training
programs.
A. OUTPUT 1995
i) NVTS (1-4)                              =  19,400
ii) Project Institutions/Programs (1(b)-4)   =  9,080
B.  CUM1UTATIVE OUTPUT 1987-1995
i) NVTS (1-4)                              - 114,400
ii) Project Institutions/Programs (1(b)-4)   = 28,770



-94-
ANNEX 16
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONA TRAINING PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AID DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. General Reports. Studies and Data Collections
A-i. National Training Ordinance 1980, Ministry of Law and Parliamentary
Affairs, Gazette of Pakistan, March 20, 1980.
A-2. Women in Development, Reconnaissance Mission to Pakistan: Background
Documentation, CIDA, May 1984.
A-3. Sixth Five Year Manpower Plan 1983-88, Govermuent of Pakistan, Ministry
of Labor Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis, Islamabad, 1983.
A-4. Impact of Return Migration on Domestic Employment in Pakistan-A
Preliminary Analysis, ILO/ARTEP Report, Islamabad, April 1984.
A-5. Pakistan Economic Survey, 1983-84, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad,
June 12, 1984.
A-6. Pakistan Basic Facts, Government of Pakistan, Fimance Division, 1983-84,
22nd Ed., Islamabad, December 1984.
A-7. Labor Force Survey 1982-83, GoverLnent of Pakistan, Federal Bureau of
Statistics, Karachi, May 1984.
A-8. Statistical Profile of the School System in Pakistan, Academy of
Educational Planning and Management, Islamabad, Islamabad, 1984.
A-9. Development of Human Resources, Population, Manpower and Employment
Policies in Pakistan (Authored by Dr. A. Ghafoor), Academy of
Educational Planning, Management, June 1984.
A-10. Pakistan Hanpower Review (Journal Publication), 5 volumes (Vol.vii 19813
Vol.viii 1982, Vol.ix No.1 1983, Vol.ix No.2 1983, and Vol.x No.1, 1984),
Government of Pakistan, Manpover and Overseas Pakistanis Division.
General/Federal
A-11. 'Industrial apprenticeship: Wby and how?" The National Directorate
Apprenticeship Training, 1961.
A-12. Federal Apprentice Ordinance 1962 and Apprenticeship Rules, Islamabad, 1966.



-95-
ANNEX 16
Page 2
A-13. Report on detailed Evaluation of MTS course No. 1 carried out for
Pakistan International Airlines Corporation (April 17 - July 16, 1983).
National Training Bureau, Islamabad, 1984.
A-14. Pakistani Women: A Socioeconomic and Demographic Profile. Edited by
Nasru Wi. Shah April, 1982. East-West Population Institute.
A-15. Women in Development: Reconnaisance Mission to Pakistan (February 7th,
1984 - March 3, 1984) Conclusions and Strategy Canadian International
Development Agency. May, 1984.
A-16. Women in Development: Recounaisance Mission to Pakistan (February 7.
1984 to March 3, 1984) Background Documentation Nay, 1984 Canadian
International Development Agency.
A-17. Study on Training of Women for Non-Traditional Occupations in Pakistan,
S.F. Lavador, International Labor Organization. November 1983.
A-18. An Assessment of Programs and Needs in the Field of Women in Development,
especially in Regard to Education and Training. Prepared for the USAID
Mission in Islamabad. Barbara D. Metcalf, U. of California, Berkeley,
February, 1983
A-19. Training-Cum-Production Workshops for Women in Pakistan.  Report
(Including Proposals for Project Guidelines) for Establishment,
Evy Messell. Associate Expert on Women's Training Asian and Pacific
Skill Development Programme. November 1983.
A-20. Work and Treining Opportunities for Women in Asia and the Pacific,
Monograph 4, APSDEPIILO Islamabad, 1984.
A-21. Quarterly Employment Market Iaformation Reviev for the Quarter Ending
30109184. Goverment of the Punjab, Directorate of Manpower and Training,
Lahore, December 1984.
A-22. Report on Professional Technical and Vocational Training Facilities in
the Province of the Punjab for the Academic Year 1981-82, Gover uent of
the Punjab, Directorate of Manpower and Training, Lahore, May 1984.
A-23. Punjab Small Industries Corporation: A brochure: "What does it stand for".
A-24. Agency for Barani Area Development (Punjab): Technical Training Program
A Write-up 1985.
A-25. Agency for Barani Area Development (Punjab): Machinery, equipment and
tools - A list for Techni-al Training Program.
A-26. Community development through training and education: The Society for
Community Development (Punjab - An NGO).
A-27. Building Trade Center: A Write-up, The Society for Community Development
(Punjab - An NGO).



-96-
ANNEX 16
Page 3
A-28. Feasibility Report on Technical Training Center, Miranshah (NIFP tribal
areas). Government of Pakistan Planning and Development Division.
A-29. 30th Round of Annual Establishment Enquiry and 24th Round of Survey of
Professional, Technical and Vocational Training Institutions in Sind.
July 1982-June 1983, Government of Sind, Directorate of Manpower and
Training, Karachi, 1984.
A-30. Revised Pilot Project for Village Workshop Schools. Government of Sind.
A-31. Review of Activities 1983-84. Sind Small Industries Corporation.
A-32. Report of Survey of Needs Assessment of skilled manpower for industries
in Hyderabad and Sukkur Divisions. Sind Board of Technical Education.
A-33. PC-I for Tractor Operator Training School at divisional level.
Government of Sind Agriculture Dept.
A-34. Provincial Training Board, NWFP, Manpower and TraininR And Assessment.
NWFP, Peshawar, June 1983.
A-35. PTB, NWFP Survey Report of Industrial Establishments, Peshawar, 1982.
A-36. PC-I for establishing Tractor Operator Training Institute for Afghan
Refugees in Baluchistan.
B. Reports and Studies Relevant to the Proiect
B-1. Employment Level of Women in the Establishments Employing 20 and above
Workers by Occupation as Covered under Establishments Enquiry Survey,
1982-83. Punjab - Labor and Manpower Department.
B-2. Rationalization of Employment Opportunities for Women - Punjab Labor and
Hlanpower Department, 1984.
B-3. Technical Cooperation between Pakistan End FRG for Promotion of
Vocational Training for Women in Punjab, Nestvogel, R., and Klein,
H. GTZ (Eschaborn).
B-4. Report on Professional, Technical and Vocational Training Facilities
in the Province of the Punjab for the Academic Year 1981-82, Lahore,
Government of the Punjab, Directorate of Manpower and Training
(Labor Dept). May 1984.
B-5. Report on Annual Establishment Enquiry for the Year 1981-82, Government
of the Punjab, Directorate of Manpower and Training (Labor Dept),
Lahore. January 1984.
B-6. Report on Rural Manpower and Employment for the Year 1982, Government of
the Punjab, Directorate of Manpower and Training, Lahore, December 1983.
B-7. Training Programme 1978-80 to 1983-84, Punjab Small Industries
Corporation, Lahore, March 1985.



-97-
ANNEX 16
Page 4
B-8. Detailed organizational chart of the Directorate of Manpower and
Training, Punjab.
B-9. Statement of achievements in Apprenticeship Training in the Punjab -
as of 31st January 1985. Lahore - Directorate of Manpower and Training.
B-10. Analysis of registered apprentices 1984 by Industry, Region and Sector
(public and private). Lahore - Directorate of Manpower and Training.
B-li. Proposal for Setting up a Technical Training Centre for Women at Lahore.
Labor Department, Government of the Punjab, 1983.
B-12. Directory of Professional, Technical and Vocational Training Institutions
and Apprenticeship Training Facilities in the Province of Sind; July 1982-
June 1983, Govern ent of Sind, Directorate of Manpower and Training,
Karachi, 1984.
B-13. Directory of Training Institutions and Apprenticeship Training Facilities
in the Province of Sind. Karachi - Directorate of Labor and Manpower.
B-14. Analysis of registered apprenticer 1984 by Industry, Region and Sector
(public or private). Karachi - Directorate of Labor and Manpower.
3-15. Vocational Training Perspectives in the Northwest Frontier Province.
Ali, -S.K., - Secretary, Provincial Training Board, NWFP.
B-16. Vocational and Technical Institutions NWFP. 1982, Provincial Training
Board.
B-17. Manpower and Training: An Assessment NWFP, Provincial Training Board,
June 1983.
3-18. Administration Report, 1981-82. Provincial Training Board, Peshawar, 1982.
B-19. Survey Report of Industrial Establishments, 1982. Provincial Training
Board. NWFP, Peshawar.
B-20. Functional set-up of Provincial Training Board NWFP. Provincial Training
Board, 1983.
B-21. Brief Report on the Activities of National Vocational Training Project,
Government of Baluchistan, Labor and Manpower Dept., Quetta, March 1985.
B-22. PC-I for Rural Skill Centers. Government of Baluchistan.
B-23. PC-Is for Technical Training Centers. Government of Baluchistan.
B-24. PC-I for the Establishment of Technical Training Centre for Women at
Quetta. Dept. of Labor, Baluchistan.
B-25. PC-I for the Establishment of Commercial Training Centres for Women at
Quetta. Directorate of Social Welfare Baluchistan.



-98-                      ANNEX 16
Page 5
B-26. Establishment of a Training Institute for Women, Lahore. Dr. Renate
Nesrvogel, Hamburg, Dr. Han-Guther Klein, Koln A commission undertaken
for the Deutsche Gesellchaft fur Technische Zusammenarbert (GTZ),
Eschborn.
B-27. Detailed Equipment Lists by Trade and Center, ILO/GOP, Geneva,
April 1985.
C. Workint PaDers. Tables. Dravings
C-1. Set of Working Papers, January 1986.



-99-
ISIAXC REPUBLrC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TAINIIC MOI
FUCIOItL          srLmIT S or THE NATIONAL TAINING  _IRA TCEIr Byslaf
I*(NM . tlm,                      P     n NIDI)
FZDEUL                                             -IIOAL
RESPONSIBILITIES                 ~~~TRAINING   _ _ _
(N)    IIfSRz
NIB SCRErARIAT                            AoU T        C
DE CoeT   INTI
Overseeing Coordinating
and Funding Project                      - Job Aalysis
- Cwrticlum DeveOPent
opleuentation and Training                    - Skill-standard setting
Activities including:                     - Trai    Nteria1
- Design and Production
- Legislation                               - Carriculum for Staff
1   Policie               -                 - T-aiing
- Plans                                     - Staff Training
- Budget                                    - Research
- Standarda                                 - rintructor Training
- Evaluation
- Superv;iaou 
- Reporting              ITz=NCAL
Liaiaon with IDr        I                    |   xr=J
NATIONAL TRAINN  BUREA
I
MINISTR OF LABOR
P?UA                        SIND                       IN"                        L sTA
EcRETARIAT |              Sl!C3.EEAR!TAL     |       SR          |               Sl!CL tARI
LJCE DZPA   | LABOR DEPARTT  LA    DPAR                  O  DPA      T
1!15TER                    E  OTUERS                  mKLEs    zInor                           .
In-Plat Trg.               In-Plant Trg.             tI-Plant Trg.                nu-Plant Trg.
Dewelooment                Developepe:                                            Detelot
Service                    Service                    Serie                       Service
- PTB SECRETARIAT RESPONSIBILITIES:
-  xecution of Training
Plans and Budget Control
- Trade Test ing
-Registratin of Training
Schemes
- Aase:ment of Training Needs
- Annul Provincial Training Plans
- Evaluation
- luplementa tion
- Snpervision of Civil Works



PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1 .....  ' .
O  92 Al4ONAK T1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   N           DG  I   ANEClITN   lTR   6/#II                  
WOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IF fi1AN DO  CFIS    / XAI ,
~~~~~~~~5C C.41
3~~~~ "VSpU -e                                g^D   >  
AFGHANISTAN  Cv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA
O,TCO~ARS __grs  /                       ;t$,,E 
r      -                          .                                ;-r    II.NIUA I ...........DI     ),
.Nh                    ,.)             Ia /.1nn     ..  ', ,V rJPxI- \A /   C'ECC
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
'ICC"~~~~~~~~~~NI
Stl r  V    N<   z    z ^"^~,uR I    'ClKue 36K  UX
/  / >   /    [aKA  v |~~~~~~~~ /                            *CUC4YA. IIMST34  i
tf   |  ('/  S  ,5J8^^n * a E RM_JAMAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~     PR 
<  l/t -  'i \ S (4\;\< / t -   D ~~~~~~~~~~~')       r     irCNr   O    I
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOC 4X CCCC
lsfiEv6t,.>,'. *i'4. !f.;s,52   X  i S  I     -              [t      8   \    1~~~~~~~~~~II C~W2CA
;  . i^jS 1    e t  *', '<,\> (f  -. , ,                     .p j  ISAN 
l    L  r    ts    ,    iliA'\2- . > - \4i-, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . gr z 4 C1 CM






