Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
C  G?. .co  a 9- /
Rept No. P-4235-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 36.6 MILLION (US$40.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
February 19, 1986
Thi docmen ha a *Micted dtbuo ad may be ued by recipiets only in the perfomnce of
1.tr oica duts.. Its coten  wmay not othrwise be dicled wit-  Wrlwd Dalk sudmIwhon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$ 1.00 = Rs 16.4
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.06
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
March - February
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARTEP    -  Asia Region Training and Employment Program (ILO)
CIDA     -  Canadian Agency for International Development
ECNEC    -  Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EEC      -  European Economic Community
EQUIPRO  -  Equipment Procurement Branch (ILO)
CVI      -  Government Vocational Institute
ILO      -  International Labor Organization
ITDS     -  In-Plant Training Development Service
NTB      -  National Training Board
NVTP     -  Vocational Training Plan
NVTS     -  National Vocational Training System
NTDI     -  National Training Development Institute
NWFP     -  Northwest Frontier Province
PC-I     -  Planning Commission Form I
PTB      -  Provincial Training Board
SAL      -  Structural Adjustment Loan
TTC      -  Technical Training Center
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Government of Pakistan
Amount:          SDR 36.6 million (US$40.2 million equivalent)
Term:            Standard
Project
Description:    The main objectives of the project are to improve the quality
and expand the capacity of the vocational training system
to meet the requirements for skilled and semi-skilled
manpower in the industrial and rural sectors. The system
would be expanded by (a) re-equipping existing vocational
training centers and introducing additional programs; (b)
developing new vocational training centers in rural areas;
and (c) strengthening the existing provincial appren-
ticeship system to expand in-plant training programs. The
quality would be improved by (a) expanding the National
Training Development Institute to provide instructor
training; and (b) further strengthening the management and
project implementation capacity of the National and
Provincial Training Boards. The project would also estab-
lish a pilot and experimental program of Women's Technical
Training Centers.
Risks:          The major risk pertains to the women's training component.
Despite strong support at the Federal and Provincial
levels, resistance stemming from sociocultural traditions
is likely at the local level. Implementation of a pilot
scheme in the major cities and towns may diminish this
potential opposition. Further, the surveys conducted to
determine trades for women's training indicate areas where
acceptance of female employment would be greatest.
Another risk to the project is that the expanded system of
new vocational training centers in rural areas, together
with the instructor, women's, and apprenticeship training
programs might place undue strain on the management
capacity of the National and Provincial Training Boards.
Measures have been taken to minimize this risk; for
example, the management of the NTB and PTBs will be
strengthened through the provision of additional staff and
training and the phased introduction of new programs over
the project period.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ther official duties. Its contents may not othen be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Estimated Cost: /a                                 Local    Foreign   Total
---US$ million  --
Vocational Training (Existing Centers)    5.95        7.21    13.16
Vocational Training (New Centers)         24.66      11.00    35.66
Apprenticeship Training                     1.18      0.29      1.47
Instructor Training                        2.07       1.14     3.21
Women's Training                           5.99       1.91      7.90
Management and Implementation              2.28       2.13      4.41
Studies                                    0.05        -       0.05
Total Base Costs                      42.18      23.68    65.86
Contingencies
Physical                               3.76       2.01     5.97
Price                                 13.55       7.95    21.50
Total Project Costs                   59.48      33.85    93.33
/a Includes taxes and duties of US$14.70 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:                                   Local    Foreign   Total
--- -US$ million--
IDA                                      19.51      20.69    40.20
UNDP                                      1.29       1.60     2.89
CIDA                                      1.15       5.37     6.51
EEC                                       7.11       6.20    13.31
Government                               30.42        -      30.42
Total                                59.48      33.85    93.33
Estimated
Disbursement: IDA FY      FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Annual     0.54  4.98  11.26  9.00  6.86  3.14  1.30  1.50  1.62
Cumulative 0.54  5.52  16.78 25.78 32.64 35.78 37.08 38.58 40.20
Economic
Rate of Return: Not applicable.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A SECOND VOCATIONAL Tk41NING PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of SDR 36.6 million (US$40.2 million equivalent) to the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second
Vocational Training Project. The project would be cofinanced by the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the Canadian Agency for
International Development (CIDA), and the European Economic Community
(EEC).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments and Structural Adjustment" (No. 5347-PAK, dated March 20,
1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 4, 1985.
3.      The steadily improving performance of recent years was interrupted
in FY84 owing to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remit-
tances and to the carryover of inflationary pressures from FY83. GDP
growth slowed to 3.5% as a result of a 5.6.22 fall in agriculture value
added caused by adverse weather and pest attacks. Manufacturing grew by
8.3% and services by 6.2%. Fixed investment rose by 6.5Z, while private
investment increased by 11.5%. National savings fell to 12.1% of GNP as a
result of a drop in private savings. At the same time, public savings
remained low because of reduced federal and provincial budget surpluses.
Excess liquidity from FY83 (generated largely by foreign exchange
inflows), increases in world prices, and reduced agricultural output
contributed to inflation, which reached upwards of 91, as against 5.2% in
FY83. Budgetary policies continued to be prudent. Current revenues
increased by 20Z, largely through improved tax administration, but current
expenditures also increased because of higher allocations for economic and
social services. Considering the economic importance of agriculture, the
creditable growth achieved in FY84 suggests that Pakistan's underlying
economic structure is quite resilient, partly as a result of recent
Government efforts to begin removing structural imbalances in the economy.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY84 relative to the
marked improvement in FY83. The current account deficit stood at US$1
billion, which was almost double that in FY83. Stagnant exports and lower
remittances were the main contributing factors. With cotton and yarn
exports greatly reduced owing to the poor cotton crop, exports rose by
only 1.6%, while imports increased by 6.9%. Furthermore, remittances
declined for the first time in FY84, falling by 5.1%. According to recent



-2-
projections, net migration is expected to decline and thus remittances
will be lower over the medium term. As a result of the higher current
deficit and low net capital flows, the reserve drawdown reached US$113
million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were US$2.4
billion at the end of FY84, which was equivalent to 3.8 months of imports
of goods and services.
5.      Since 1980, the Government has moved gradually to eliminate inter-
est rates from the economy and has announced that the process will be
completed by July 1985. All transactions will be based on new financing
modes consistent with Islamic principles. Existing interest-based commit-
ments will be honored and transactions with foreign governments and finan-
cial institutions will not be affected. At this stage, it is difficult to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Islamization.
Undoubtedly, there will be some costs in converting the system, but
whether long-run efficiency will be affected will depend on how the system
is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously and,
although fully committed to the elimination of interest rates, it has
stressed that new financing modes will be applied flexibly and develop-
ments monitored closely.
6.      The slowdown in economic growth in FY84 marked a departure from
the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83).
Growth in national output (6.5%), agriculture (4.2Z), manufacturing
(10.4%), exports (liZ), and private investment (6.7%), though below Plan
targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY70-78 and very
respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing countries.
Growth during this period-coupled with increased remittances--benefited
large segments of the population. Performance improved despite a number
of adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the exter-
nal terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis with its
attendant expenditures for increased defense and refugee assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved sig-
nificantly during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and
Government bank borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP
respectively, fell to 6.4% and 1.7% by FY83. As the levels of Government
borrowing from banks dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained,
the growth of the money supply slowed down and inflationary pressures
lessened; inflation dropped from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period.
The improved fiscal performance was largely the result of expenditure
restraint rather than better revenue performance. Real expansion in
current expenditures on economic and social services barely kept pace with
population growth, and development expenditures declined relative to GDP.
Government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP, and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP,
dropped to 1.6Z by FY83. Assisted by remittances, but also strong export
growth, the current account deficit fell from 5% of GNP to 2% by the end



-3-
of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of
imports of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agricultire, all major crops reached
record output Levels, with wheat and sugar actieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufac-
turing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private
sector were widened, most agricultural processing units were
denationalized, and sanctioning limits increased. A flexible exchange
rate policy adopted in 1982 was instrumental in stimulating manufactured
exports, while import liberalization increased the availability of raw
materials and capital goods. In energy, measures were taken to accelerate
the development of domestic resources, rationalize prices, and improve
policy formulation and energy planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent wel-
come steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural
and long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must
be introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on two such issues: (a) the need to increase the level
and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to encourage export
expansion and efficient import substitution. If Pakistan is to sustain
high economic growth, it must make major infrastructure investments,
upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen its neglected social base.
The last has fared badly as a result of resource constraints, as is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators, which lag seriously behind
those of other developing countries at comparable levels of development.
It will not be possible to increase public investment and recurrent
allocations without a major domestic resource mobilization effort.
Although Pakistan should give priority to reforming indirect taxation
through a broad-based sales tax, it should also rely more on user charges,
should curtail subsidies, and increase self-financing by public
enterprises. Given the more constrained outlook for official assistance
and the likelihood of lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in
both export expansion and efficient import substitut5on will be necessary
to support high growth with sustainable external capital requirements.  If
trade performance is to be improved, structural adjustment must be con-
tinued and strengthened in the key sectors of agriculture, industry, and
energy.  Both agriculture and industry have considerable potential for
increased exports and some degree of efficient import substitution. In
energy, the accelerated development of Pakistan's under-exploited resour-
ces can contribute considerably to the reduction of energy imports.



-4-
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of
increased acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by
those of progressive farmers within Pakistan. Before agricultural produc-
tivity and diversification can be increased, institutional support must be
strengthened, appropriate pricing policies must be put in place, and the
core investment program identified and implemented. More effective
institutional support should be sought through improvements in the quality
and quantity of services to farmers. In particular, strengthening the
seed program requires more efficient seed multiplication and
dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector plants, and a greater
role for the private sector. The delivery of agricultural credit also
needs to be improved to ensure that it actually reaches small farmers and
tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Furthermore, marketing costs
need to be reduced and research and extension services strengthened.
Agricultural pricing policies should create appropriate incentives to
farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multicrop approaches to pricing
should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production approach currently
used. Finally, a core investment program in agriculture and water is
needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment priorities.
Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized along with
critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity. Greater
emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially between
agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to programs
that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the
supply of physical infrastructure.
11.     If Pakistan is to increase and diversify its manufactured export
base and encourage efficient import substitution, industrial incentives
must be rationalized to reduce both the level and dispersion of effective
protection rates. The objective here is to increase the efficiency of the
industrial sector by exposing protected producers to greater foreign
competition and to reduce the anti-export bias inherent in the present
incentives. In addition, the Government should reform the regulations
affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus pricing. It should limit
sanctioning to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving most invest-
ment decisions to the private sector, which is better able to assess
investment opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements, which provide
insufficient incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiency,
should be replaced by market-oriented approaches, which better reflect
supply/demand conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment
and operational efficiency.
12.     Issues that need to be addressed in the energy sector pertain to
three broad areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; (c)
institutional strengthening. To date, the Government's power generation
program, as well as other investments in the sector, have not been based
on a long-term least-cost development plan. Given the likelihood of
domestic resource constraints and persistent power shortages, the
Government should ensure that future investments conform to such a plan



-5-
and that a core investment program is insulated from uncertainties
inherent in the budgeting process. The present gas producer pricing
formula for new discoveries should be adjusted to provide adequate incen-
tives to attract private sector exploration. Because consumer gas prices
were kept artificially low to encourage the substitution of gas for
imported oil, relative prices have become distorted and the use of gas
uneconomic. The Government's policy is to increase gas prices until they
reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by FY88; thus since 1982, price
increases have averaged 15% per annum in dollar terms. The Government
needs to meet its FY88 objective and move to full parity as soon there-
after as possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currently below the
long-run marginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only
to ensure the efficient use of electricity and encourage energy
conserva i±n, but also to mobilize the substantial additional funds
requirei by the power investment program.  Finally, the Government should
consider increasing the autonomy of public enterprises in the energy
sector to improve their efficiency and should continue to strengthen
energy planning and policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic
strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an
expanded role for the private sector, increased public development
expenditures, and increased allocations for energy, agriculture,
irrigation, and the social sectors. Although the size and composition of
the Plan are appropriate, development expenditures during the first two
years of the Plan have been 9% lower than the amounts projected because of
insufficient domestic resources. Although this would not appear overly
large, the way in which sectoral shortfalls have been distributed con-
tradicts Plan priorities. Education, energy, health, and agriculture have
received considerably lower allocations than called for in the Plan.
Furthermore, without a predefined core investment program, there is a
tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly over a large number of projects
within a sector; thus too many projects have been initiated, and projects
that should receive priority are underfunded. To address this issue, the
Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority Investment Program
(FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adoption of a rolling
medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and priorities are
being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable. The program
will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be given
priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.
14.     Despite a temporary setback in FY84, the improved performance and
policy framework of the Fifth Plan, which the Government intends to con-
tinue during the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for
a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commercial borrowing. At the end of
1983, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the undisbursed pipeline)
stood at US$9.8 billion, of which US$4.7 billion was owed to bilateral



-6-
members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC, US$2 billion
to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other bilateral and private
lenders. At the same time, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's external
public indebtedness was 15.3%, and in external debt service it was 7.0%.
According to Bank projections, if recent policy improvements are sustained
and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service will remain below
15% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher levels of
commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.     As of September 30, 1985, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that
were disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately
US$3.7 billion, and IFC's investments totalled $193.5 million. (Annex II
contains a summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 20-year period, in a major program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. ApproximateLy 30% of
total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and
irrigation; 28% for inciustry, including import program credits; 18% for
transport, telecommunications, and public utility services; 14% for
energy, including power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5% for social
programs in education, population, and urban development; and 5% for
structural adjustment lending and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms
in three sectors--energy, industry, a.ad agriculture--which shape the
structural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from
adjustment are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the
strategy also incLudes investments in physical infrastructure and the
social sectors (education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in
Pakistan's development efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full
range of traditional instruments of Bank support must be flexibly
deployed--from sector work and active policy dialogue, to policy- and
project-based lending, technical assistance and aid coordination. The
Bank Group's lending program comprises two components, the larger of which
supports specific high-priority investments in productive sectors and
physical and social infrastructure. The smaller but nonetheless strategic
component focuses on policy reforms in the key sectors of agriculture,
industry, and energy and relies heavily on high-quality economic and
sector work. The program includes a series of technical assistance
credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for policy
reform. The experience with the first of these has been extremely
positive. In addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum,



the Bank Group tries to foster greater understanding on the part of
Consortium members of the Government's structural adjustment program and
aid requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the policy relevance and effectiveness of other official aid and
help attract additional resources to Pakistan from nonconcessional
sources.
18.     listorica'ly, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lend-
ing for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The
Bank and the Government have agreed that the main objective of the
agricultural strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be
to increase agricultural productivity through improvements in the
efficiency of the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services.
Among the issues being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation
projects and projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input
and output prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance,
cost recovery, and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the
sector have ranged from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs,
research, and extension and have included institution-building components.
Overall, progress in agriculture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects: to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industriaL reform program has
been designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to
promoting export expansion and import substitution. Issues being
addressed include trade and industrial incentives, deregulation,
efficiency of public enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in
the credit delivery system. Lines of credit extended to development
finance inscitutions and other financial intermediaries have been mainly
for the private sector. Direct lending for industry has also included
assistance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering
loan. IFC's investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises were by way of loans
(US$182 million) and equity participation (US$11.3 million); these are
shown in Annex II. Although individual operations have generally achieved
their objectives, the agenda for overall industrial reform remains
formidab?e.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981/82 and the Energy Sector Loan in 1985, our lending program
in energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective here is to expand
the domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously increase
the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation,
and other methods of managing demand. No less central have been the
efforts to strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank
has helped both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation and the Water and
Power Development Authority to finance their power generation and trans-
mission programs. The construction of the Mangla and Tarbela dams under



-8-
the Indus Basin Development Program, in which the Bank played a leadership
role, has also assisted in achieving the objectives of the sector
strategy. In oil and gas, the Bank has financed a sound exploration and
development program and has assisted in developing the extensive gas
transmission system. Smaller efforts, involving mainly engineering
studies and technical assistance, have been undertaken to support coal
exploration, energy audits, and oil refining. Despite much progress,
however, the Bank will need to continue participating in institution
building and help the Government mobilize adequate funds for energy
investments through tariffs, co-financing, and greater private sector
participation.
21.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused
both on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of exist-
ing assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions
responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and
provincial highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure
is now considered to be critical constraint to overall growth, in large
measure because infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance
between new investments and the efficient operation and maintenance of
existing investments needs greater attention.
22.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24%, a population growth
rate of about 3.1%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally
formidable development agenda in the social sectors. The Bank has sup-
ported the Government's programs in education through five credits
designed to upgrade primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and
agricultural education as well as middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. The focus has been and will
continue to be on the lower end of the education spectrum (primary,
technical, and nonformal education). A first population project designed
to expand the demand for population control services was approved in FY83.
Furthermore, the Bank has financed four projects in the urban and water
supply sector. Besides providing urban services, these operations are
designed to improve local resource mobilization and cost recovery; plan-
ning and efficiency of resource utilization; and urban management, espe-
cially at the provincial and municipal levels.
23.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan mentioned in para. 20. The SAL program
introduced a number of significant reforms in government development
planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and
industrial sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of
FY83, significant progress had been achieved in the above areas. The ESL
supports the Government reform program for the energy sector and assists
in the implementation of a core investment program for the sector.
Continuing support for the structural adjustment process is envisioned
under other sector loans in the next few years.



-9-
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects
have experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures
for project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and
technical staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to
budgetary constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and
conservation; oil and gas exploration and development; coal development;
lines of credit for industrial financing for the private sector, and for
industrial subsector restructuring, balancing, and modernization;
irrigation/drainage, and agricultural inputs and services; highway con-
struction and maintenance; primary and informal education; urban develop-
ment and water supply. Sector loans that would support further structural
adjustment in industry and agriculture are being discussed with the
Government. Where successful, such loans would provide a policy umbrella
for projects in those sectors. To help the Government finance agricul-
tural and other high-priority projects having low foreign exchange
component, the Bank Group is financing some local expenditures on a case-
by-case basis.
26.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on develop-
ment strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and
the coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
The work program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment
in the three key sectors, and the development of the physical and social
infrastructure.
PART III - MANPOWER NEEDS AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN PAKISTAN
27.      Pakistan remains an economy characterized by severe underemploy-
ment of its unskilled labor, and shortages of skilled and semiskilled
workers in such fields as manufacturing and construction. Manpower
shortages are the result of relatively high domestic industrial growth and
large outflows of skilled and semiskilled workers to the Middle East.
Developments in the industrial sector have been dynamic (particularly
among the more labor-intensive small enterprises) with industrial output
averaging 10% a year between FY78 and FY85. At the same time, an
estimated 2.5 million Pakistani migrants took up jobs in other countries,
primarily in the Middle East. Thus far, however, the Covernment has not
attempted to limit worker migration as remittances from Pakistanis abroad
have in recent years constituted the largest source of Pakistan's foreign
exchange earnings and have alleviated its trade deficit. Now that
economic growth in the Middle East is declining, the annual growth in
demand for Pakistani workers is expected to slow down. A recent ILO/ARTEP



-10-
study 11 projects a decrease in net migration but continued high levels of
out-migration and return migration. The survey also notes that most
skilled workers do not return to their original occupations, but engage
primarily in business and trading activities, usually in more urban or
semi-urban areas. Return migration will therefore not significantly
improve Pakistan's supply of skilled manpower.
28.      Manpower shortages will be further aggravated by the high growth
strategy of the Sixth Plan in the industrial and agricultural sectors,
which Eaphasizes productivity improvements and increased labor absorption.
This strategy is appropriate in view of the very young age structure of
Pakistan's rapidly growing population, about 53% of which is economically
active. The age group (14 to 19 years old) seeking entry in the job
market is expected to grow at a rate of 3.5% annually. Unemployment and
underemployment levels will rise in Pakistan unless about 4 million jobs
are created during the period of the Seventh Plan (FY89 to FY93).
Employment opportunities will have to be provided primarily in the
industrial sector since the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector
is gradually being exhausted.
Vocational Training: System and Plan
29.      The industrial growth strategy outlined above can only be imple-
mented and sustained by an expanded and quality-oriented vocational train-
ing system. The pillars of a vocational training system are already in
place in the form of public and private training institutions.
Furthermore, the number of private training facilities has increased
significantly in urban and semi-urban areas catering to the needs of the
rapidly growing domestic industrial sectors and the recruitment agencies
in the Middle East. About 10% of skilled manpower is now trained in
private vocational training institutions, but the quality of training is
uneven and generally below the standards of public centers. In addition,
private enterprises provide on-the-job training for new recruits, some-
times complemented by irregular training sessions, while major private
companies and large public enterprises (such as the Steel Mill, National
Refinery, and Engineering Complexes) have established formalized long-term
programs of theoretical and practical training. The output of the exist-
ing vocational training institutions, both private and public, meets about
50% of the demand for skilled and semiskilled workers. As the pace of
industrial activity quickens, however, the gap between demand and supply
will widen unless the output of the system is increased. The proposed
project would help reduce the deficit substantially so that by 1995 the
annual supply would meet about 60% of the demand.  Although the project is
largely limited to the public sector, its demonstration and spillover
1/ ILOIARTEP, "Impact of Return Migration on Domestic Employment in
Pakistan:  A preliminary Analysis". 1934.



-ll-
effects on the private sector are expected to spearhead improvements on
the overall vocational training system and thus should help to increase
output.
30.      Pakistan's national vocational training system is still young; it
operates within the framework of the National Training Ordinance 1980,
the objective of which is to improve and increase the supply of skilled
manpower through a nationwide quality oriented training system. The
Ordinance calls for the establishment of vocational training programs
based on strong linkages between the public and private sectors, and a
strengthened In-Plant Training Service as part of the Apprenticeship
Program. Quality training is to be provided through improved standardized
and relevant curricula and equipment, trained instructors, and a system of
institutional supervision that emphasizes trainee evaluation. At the same
time, the Government has reduced training costs by introducing of double
shifts and by shortening training sessions according to standards accept-
able to employers. The program is implemented through the National and
Provincial Training Boards and the National Training Development Institute
(NTDI), which were also established under the Ordinance; the National
Trainii&g Board establishes policies and finances appropriate programs and
the Provincial Training Boards (through the Provincial Labor Departments)
and the NTDI are the implementing agencies.
31.     IDA Credit 1109-PAK provided assistance to establish the system.
Good progress has been made in upgrading training facilities, capacity
utilization has improved, and there is strong demand for entry to the
vocational training institutions in the NationaL Vocations Training System
(NVTS). The quality of training in these institutions is markedly higher
than in institutions outside the system, as is evident from employer
demand for graduates from these institutions. Linkages with the private
sector and the In-Plant Training Advisory Service within the
Apprenticeship Programs have been less successful. Only about 4,000
trainees are enrolled in the Apprenticeship Program for example, whereas
it capable of handling about 10,000. Progress here has been disappointing
because government officials continue to distrust private employers and
use the Apprenticeship Ordinance to police rather than to advise and guide
private enterprises in the establishment of training programs. The
proposed project would improve this collaboration, would build upon the
progress made in establishing a national system, and give special emphasis
to institution building, the introduction of more cost reduction
mechanisms, and increased participation of the private sector in the NVTS.
Issues in Vocational Training
32.     The issues in vocational training revolve around the rural-urban
imbalance in the provision of facilities; the role of private sector
training institutions; the financing of public vocational training; and
the development of in-plant programs in industry.



-12-
33.     Rural-Urban Imbalances.  Vocational training has been an urban
phenomenon. Both public and private institutions are located primarily in
urban areas and contribute to rural-urban migration. However, since the
Government is pursuing a policy of increased industrial location outside
urban areas and of strengthening the small scale industry sub-sector in
non-urban areas, the training of skilled/semiskilled workers in these
areas has become urgent. Because of the limited supply of skilled man-
power in rural areas, the returns to vocational training would also be
high.
34.     Role of Private Vocational Training Institutions.  Although both
federal and provincial Governments have been trying to expand vocational
training in Pakistan for some time, even a major effort would fail to give
publicly financed training facilities the capacity to produce enough
trained manpower to meet the demand. The public system, however, is
complemented by private institutions that have developed in a largely
unsystematic manner, essentially by responding to the needs of recruitment
agencies for Middle East employment. Although a larger private role is a
welcome development, there is a danger that programs of differing quality
and certification based on varying curricula can create to confusion in
the market.
35.     Quality and Relevance of Training.  In the absence of systematic
monitoring and evaluation of factors such as employability of trainees,
demand for output, and wages, which can be used in the design of courses,
vocational training programs will be irrelevant. Although the demand for
general admission to training facilities is high, the demand for different
courses varies widely. It is imperative to introduce more systematic
assessment of local manpower needs (including the absorption rate of
trained workers). A beginning has been made with the monitoring and
evaluation components under Credit 1109-PAK and the socioeconomic assess-
ments carried out for each prospective center in the preparation for the
proposed project.
36.     Cost Recovery.  Vocational training in public institutions is
provided at little cost to trainees. Students make nominal contributions
to cover admission, examination, and hostel fees and equipment. In some
cases, stipends are given to selected students, mostly the children of
ex-servicemen, and to all trainees in Baluchistan. This policy may have
been appropriate when government sponsored vocational training was intro-
duced in Pakistan, particularly to demonstrate the benefits of vocational
training in an education system dominated by academic programs. However,
in view of the high economic returns to vocational training and the grow-
ing recurrent budget pressures, fees should now be introduced. Although,
fees will have to be introduced gradually over a reasonable period, they
should ultimately cover the full recurrent costs of operating these
courses. Such measures would also be consistent with the Government's
general education policy, whereby modest charges have been introduced in
the past several years.



-13-
37.     In-Plant Training.  Institutional vocational training should be
complemented by enterprise-specific training programs. The need for this
type of training and for linkages with institutional training has not yet
been recognized by the smaller and medium-sized private firms. These
employers need to be guided further in this direction. The Government can
help firms design programs to meet their needs and can train instructors.
The proposed project intends to develop such linkages between public and
private training programs.
External Financing of Vocational Training
38.     Since 1967, the Government has received technical and financial
assistance from multilateral and bilateral sources for vocational
training. The Swedish Government helped develop the Swedish-Pakistan
Institute of Technology and the Netherlands Government provided support
for the Pak-Netherlands Training Center, both in Multan; but the most
extensive assistance has come from the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG),
which has spearheaded the move toward a quality-oriented approach to
vocational training in Pakistan and toward linkages to private industry.
a a result, vocational training has become a respectable option within
Pakistan's educational system. FRG has financed equipment for the
Technical Training Centers (TTCs) at Ghulberg and Moghulpura, has helped
establish an Apprenticeship Training Wing and a Staff Training Wing in the
Labor Department in the Punjab, and has provided technical assistance.
This on-going program will provide support for the establishment of a
Technical Training Center for Women in Lahore as well as technical and
other support to the Punjab Labor Department. UNDP/ILO has assisted in
the preparation of the National Vocational Training Plan (NVTP) and has
financed experts, equipment, and fellowships under the Federal Program for
Skill Development.  The support of these donors, although tangible, has
been small and fragmented relative to the overall size of the problem.
The Bank Group's Role in the Vocational Trainin_Sector
39.     The Bank has financed only one project for vocational training
(Credit 1109-PAK) in Pakistan. This ongoing project supports the objec-
tives of creating a NVTS as outlined in the National Training Ordinance of
March, 1980. Its goal is to improve the Government's capability to plan,
manage and evaluate skill training; improve the quality and increase the
output of vocational training institutes; and improve the productivity of
employed workers. Despite a slow start, performance to date has been
encouraging. Delays in implementation because of the poor performance of
two civil works contractors, and the slow progress in establishing the
In-Plant Training Advisory Services in the Provinces have now been largely
overcome and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily; in addition, the
assessment of the employability of graduates from the NVTS institutions
has begun after much delay. This project has helped to recruit and retain
in service qualified instructors, has assisted with the development and



-14-
functioning of the National and Provincial Training Boards and the NTDI,
has made the private sector increasingly aware of the importance and value
of vocational training, and has promoted the development of nationally
recognized trades standards curricula and tests. All the implementation
experience gained under this first project has been incorporated in the
design of the proposed project (see also para. 31).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.     The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Labor,
Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis with ILO assistance, financed under
Credit 1109-PAK. The project was appraised in March/April 1985 and a
post-appraisal mission was undertaken in October 1985. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C., from January 13 to January 22, 1986. The
Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. S.M.A. KCazmi, Secretary, Ministry of
Labour, Manpower and Overseas Pakistanis. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Pakistan: Second Vocational Training Project" (Report No.
5728-PAK) dated February 7, 1986 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as
Annex III. Approval by the Executive Committee of the Pakistan National
Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-i document for the project 1/ and the
signing of technical assistance agreements between GOP and UND7P, CIDA, and
EEC and a service contract between GOP and ILO/EQUIPRO for the
procurement, installation and commissioning of the equipment for the
project and the provision of related training would be conditions of
credit effectiveness.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
41.     IDA, under Credit 1109-PAK, has played a catalytic role in the
development of the NVTS. The proposed second project, moving in the same
direction as the first project, would consolidate gains made under that
project and expand IDA support for the NVTS. It would also provide a
framework within which to coordinate the hitherto small and fragmented
donor assistance to the vocational training sector according to the
priorities outlined under the National Training Plan.
Project Objectives
42.     The proposed project would build upon the momentum developed under
the FI.rst Vocational Training Project (Credit 1109-PAK). It supports the
Government's objective of alleviating shortages of skilled and semiskilled
manpower in the industrial and agricultural sectors in all four provinces
1/ A PC-i (Planning Commission Pro Forma #1) is an internal Government
project appraisal document necessary for the Government of Pakistan
approval procedures.



-15-
by further expanding the availability of training opportunities through
increasing the capacity of existing vocational training institutes, estab-
lishing new ones, ana expanding apprenticeship/in-plant training programs,
and by improving the quality of training through strengthening instructor
training programs and the management and project implementation
capabilities of the National and Provincial Training Boards. It includes
an experimental pilot women's training program aimed at preparing women
for entry into the skilled labor market in nontraditional sectors, and
will also assist the Government in strengthening the national vocational
training system, which emphasizes institutional training but interacts
closely with in-plant training programs of both public and private
enterprises. Under the project, about 19,000 skilled and semiskilled
workers would be trained in 22 different occupations in construction,
electrical, and mechanical fields by the time all the facilities are fully
operational in 1995.
Project Description
43.     The project would provide for:  (i) constructing and equipping 36
new vocational training centers including five exclusively for women; (ii)
additional equipment to upgrade 20 existing vocational training
institutions; (iii) strengthening the Provincial Apprenticeship Services;
(iv) expanding the capacity of the National Training Development Institute
to provide instructor training; (v) policy studies for vocational training
development; and (vi) strengthening the management and project implementa-
tion capability of the National and Provincial Training Boards.
Project Components
44.     New Vocational Training Centers.  Thirty-one new training centers
for men 1/ would be established in rural areas where there is an inade-
quate supply of skilled and semiskilled labor owing to the lack of private
or public vocational training facilities. Each center would have the
capacity to train up to 160 trainees per year in double shift operations
and would offer courses in 5 trades. The trades for each center reflect
local skill requirements and were selected on the basis of detailed
socioeconomic :urveys conducted in each location. The curriculum would be
in line with nationally approved skill standards and trainees would be
recruited from local areas. However, hostel facilities would be provided
for about 35% of the trainees in areas where many would come from remote
villages.
45.     Each center would have an Advisory Body with representation from
among local business, public sector organizations, and civic leaders. It
would liaise between the center and local industry where some of the
1/ Twelve in Punjab, 8 in Sind, 6 in NWFP and 5 in Baluchistan.



-16-
trainees are expected to gain employment. Assurances have been obtained
from the Government that an Advisory Body would be established for each
center as soon as possible but not later than three months of its opening.
Assurances have also been obtained that all new instructors would be
recruited according to a schedule acceptable to IDA, and that they would
be enrolled in training within one year of the end of their probation.
46.     Existing Training Centers:  This component would expand the train-
ing capacity of 20 existing centers 1/ and improve the quality of the
training provided. It would create about 750 new training places and
improve the quality of instruction for over 5,000 trainees annually.
Expansion would be achieved through double shifts in all centers and
through new courses in eleven centers from among refrigeration and air
conditioning, radio and television, draftmanship, electric installation,
auto mechanics, plumbing, tractor operator mechanics, welding, carpentry,
and auto electronics. Instruction would follow the National Skills
Standard curricula, and high standards of teaching would be achieved
through the recruitment of qualified instructors supplemented by addi-
tional training for all instructors. The project would finance equipment
and consumable training materials as well as salaries of additional
instructors for new courses during implementation of the project.
47.     Women's Training.  Because of the socioreligious structure of
Pakistani society, women have little access to employment in the modern
wage-earning sectors. Although vocational training opportunities for
women in traditional (income-saving) activities proliferate, similar
opportunities in nontraditional fields are minimal. This component would
therefore provide for the establishment of five women's training centers2/
that would form a pilot and experimental program to assess the possibility
for a more extensive women's training program in nontraditional skills and
to gradually introduce such training. The centers which would provide
hostel facilities for about 45Z of enrollment, would be located in the
provincial capitals or major cities of each Province and offer skill
courses from among the following: office/secretarial practice, repair and
service of household appliances, technical/architectural drafting, com-
puter input operation, telephone/telex operation, and
photography/commercial illustration.
48.     The specific skills to be imparted at each center were selected on
the basis of socioeconomic surveys conducted in each location, which inter
alia identified the trades in which employment of women appears
acceptable. Each center would train a total of 110 to 200 women annually,
depending on its size and would have a studert counseling and placement
1/ Fifteen in the Punjab, three in Sind, and one each in NWFP and Baluchistan.
21 Two in the Punjab and one in each of Sind, NWFP, and Baluchistan.



-17-
office. The project would finance the construction and equipping of the
centers, salaries of instructors, and training materials during project
implementation. Assurances have been obtained from the Government that an
Advisory Body with representatives from local business and civic organiza-
tions would be established for each center as soon as possible but not
later than three months of its opening.
49.     instructor Training.  Facilities for training vocational instruc-
tors are at present limited, and systematic training is only being carried
out in the Punjab. This component would expand the institutional capacity
for instructor training, and, as a consequence, would improve the quality
of vocational training, expand the output of qualified instructors, and
upgrade the skills of existing instructors. The capacity of the existing
National Training Development Institute (NTDI) in Islamabad would be
expanded to provide 150 places annually for instructor training. Priority
would be given to training an estimated 155 unqualified instructors now
teaching at existing NVTS centers. The main course would last 48 weeks
and lead to a qualified Instructor Certificate. A small program for
master trainers would also be offered. In addition, the NTDI would help
to initiate instructor-upgrading courses in the Provinces. Trades in
which training would be offered would be determined yearly, depending on
the requirements of the Provinces and instructor recruitment patterns.
The project would finance the construction and equipment, hostel
facilities, and salaries of training staff. Three man-years of expert
services in new trade areas would also be provided.
50.     Apprenticeship Training.  Although institutional training is the
central feature of the Government's Vocational Training Plan, training
within public and private enterprises is an integral part of the voca-
tional training strategy. This approach was emphasized in the first
project, but its implementation was slow. By strengthening the
Apprenticeship Services of the Provincial Labor Departments to include
In-Plant Training Development Services (ITDS), this component would con-
tinue the work of promoting and expanding apprenticeship and in-plant
training in both public and private enterprises.
51.     The ITDS would be designed to help industrial units upgrade inter-
nal training programs, develop unit-specific training policies and plans,
and operate training programs for supervisors. To facilitate the transi-
tion of the Provincial Apprenticeship Services to In-Plant Training
Development Services, the project would (i) broaden the mandate of the
service to include advisory functions on methods of establishing in-plant
training programs; (ii) increase the number of apprenticeship/training
development officers; (iii) improve the conditions of service, including
salaries for apprenticeship/training development officers, to attract and
retain qualified candidates; (iv) train and upgrade new and existing
apprenticeship/training development officers; (v) and provide transport.



-18-
52.     Studies.  This component would finance studies focusing on
selected policy issues in vocational training. The studies are expected
to lead to new policies in vocational training or to changes in existing
policies. The studies would cover: (i) cost recovery and financing of
vocational training; (ii) women's training and employment opportunities in
nontraditional areas; (iii) financial compensation schemes and training in
private enterprises; (iv) rural apprenticeship programs; and (v) surveys
of the need and demand for advanced vocational training in the industrial
sector. The Association and the Government have already agreed on the
terms of reference for these studies. Assurances have been obtained that
the results of all the studies would be jointly reviewed by Government and
IDA by December 31, 1988. Assurances have also been obtained that based
upon the findings of the studies and the outcome of the review a system of
cost recovery in the National Vocational Training System would be intro-
duced by March 1, 1989; a pilot rural apprenticeship program by March 1,
1990; and advanced vocational training courses (Level I) in selected
vocational training centers by March 1, 1991.
Technical Assistance and Training
53.     The project would provide 10 staff-years of internationally
recruited experts, 17 staff-years of local experts, 10 staff-years of
international and regional fellowships, and 417 staff-years for local
training.
Project Implementation and Management
54.     The National Training Board (NTB) would be responsible for the
implementation of the project at the federal level and the Provincial
Training Boards (PTB) at the provincial level.  To assist the NTB, the
National Training Bureau 1/ would be strengthened to cover vocational
training activities in suburban and rural areas, women's training, and the
implementation of the civil works program. The present contract with
ILO/EQUIPRO for the procurement of equipment would be renewed and expanded
to include the installation and commissioning of the equipment, the train-
ing of the staff of the National Training Bureau and provincial staff in
procurement, and the establishment of a computerized system for equipment
maintenance and inventory control. The signing of a service contract
between GOP and ILO/EQUIPRO for the procurement, installation and commis-
sioning of the equipment and the provision of related training would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
55.     The Bureau would retain a civil works adviser (local consultant)
to coordinate the overall construction program and to maintain contact
1/ The National Training Bureau acts as the secretariat of the National
Training Board.



-19-
with the Provincial civil works officers designated to work with him. The
PTBs would appoint additional staff to assist in developing the new
centerst women's training, and monitoring and evaluation activities.
Assurances have been obtained that all additional staff would be appointed
in accordance with a schedule acceptable to IDA.
56.     The monitoring and evaluation capability of the Bureau developed
under Credit 1109-PAK would be streAgthened to maintain liaison with
similar units to be established in the PTBs. The Bureau would coordinate
the provision of technical assistance in the Provinces and would have a
Women's Training and Employment Unit that would oversee instructor train-
ing for the Women's TTCs, employment, training material development,
regional coordination, and research.
Project Costs
57.     Total project costs are estimated at Rs. 1,652 million (US$93.3
million equivalent), including a foreign exchange component of US$33.8
million or about 36% of total project costs. Present estimates are based
on January 1986 prices and include US$14.7 million in taxes and duties.
Total project costs include physical contingencies (about US$6.0 million)
estimated at 10% of the base costs of all physical components and 5% for
salaries and technical assistance and price contingencies (US$21.5
million) calculated at the following rates: on foreign costs, 6.2% in FY
86, 7.0% in FY 87, 7.3% in FY88, 7.6% in FYs 89-90, 6.0% in FY91, and 4.5%
in FYs 92-95; and on local costs, 6.52 in FY 86, 8.5Z in FY87, 7.5% in FYs
88-90, 6.0% in FY91, 6% in FYs 88-91, and 4.5% in FYs 92-95.
Project Financing
58.     The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 36.6 (US$40.2) million would
finance 51Z of the total project cost net of taxes and duties, including
US$20.7 million of foreign exchange costs and US$19.5 million of local
costs. The credit would cover (a) 49% of expenditures for all civil
works, (b) 77% for furniture costs and professional fees; (c) 100% of
foreign expenditures for imported and of ex-factory cost for locally
produced equipment and books; (d) 100% of the cost of equipment procure-
ment and management fees; (e) 80% of total expenditure for locally
procured goods; and (f) 37% of total expenditures for salaries of addi-
tional staff, consumable materials, and operation and maintenance.
59.     Agreement in principle has been obtained from UNDP, CIDA, and EEC
to provide cofinancing for the project and the signing of technical assis-
tance agreement between them and GOP would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.  UNDP would provide US$2.9  million equivalent for techni-
cal assistance (experts and fellowships); CIDA would provide US$6.5 mil-
lion equivalent for equipmont, expert services and fellowships for women's
training, and equipment for new centers in NWFP; and EEC would provide
US$13.3 million equivalent for civil works and equipment for new centers
in NWFP and Baluchistan, and all project vehicles. Total external financ-



-20-
ing would cover about 80% of total project costs net of taxes and duties.
The Government of Pakistan would finance the remaining net costs of
US$15.7 million (24Z of total net costs) and all taxes and duties ($14.7).
Recurrent Expenditure
60.     The annual recurrent expenditures generated by the project will be
about Rs. 81 million (US$4.6 million) in 1995. When combined with the
incremental annual recurrent expenditures generated by Credit 1109-PAK, it
will represent less than one percent of projected (1995) total recurrent
expenditures on education and training in all the provinces and about 14%
of projected recurrent expenditures on vocational and technical training.
This level of recurrent expenditures is not unduly burdensome and is
within acceptable limits. In NWFP and Baluchistan, where the recurrent
expenditures on the project would average about 34% and 38Z of total
vocational/technical training expenditures, respectively, IDA-assisted
projects represent the major public investments in vocational training
unlike Sind and Punjab, where there is a much larger base of other
publicly financed vocational training programs; as a consequence,
IDA-assisted projects preempt a major portion of public recurrent expendi-
tures in this area. The growth of recurrent revenues in the Provinces
would be expected to meet the recurrent expenditure needs of vocational
education in the short and medium term; in the long term, however, this
problem should be substantially alleviated since fees covering recurrent
costs of training on an increasing scale will be levied after 1989.



-21-
Procurement
61.    Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Procurement Method
($US millions)
Total   |
_____________|  |ICB   | LCB    lOther  | NA   |  Costs1/ |
| Civil Works         I       T 22.67  |         I       1   22.67    1
I                     I       I  (11.13)   I     l       l            l
I   _________ ________ ________   I  [___ _   I 7.14]  1   l  l   _
F Professional Fees    I      1            1.81  I       1    1.81    l
I   _________ ________ ________   I  _________   1 _ _   l  (1 .37)  I  l I
| Furniture                       1 1   1.38  |  1       1    1.38    1
I __     I _              l (1.09)  
T Equipment           | 33.51 1--F 9.11  I               |  42.62    l
1(23.14 1       I (5.85] I       l            l
Equipment Management |      |         | 2.56  |        |   2.56    l
|Fees                 l       l I         (2.56)  _       I           l
Vehicles             l      l         T 0.59  F        1   0.59
______________ _______________  l  _  ______  I  ( [0.33 ]  1   _    l
B Hooks                                 1 0.29  |        1   0.29    V
i  ____________________________   I  ____   I  ___   I  (0.29)  1  1  1
Technical Assistance 1      1         | 3.71  T        |   3.71    l
I __ __ __ __ _ __ __   I_   I    [3.71]  I  l  l
Consumable Materials 1      |         | 2.87  |        1   2.87    |
I   _____________ ____________   I   ________   I  ____( 1 . 0 6 )  1   _  l
I Incremental Expenses 1      1      _           1 14.83 1  14.83    l
_                     1   __    _________ I ________ I  (5.25)1      1
1 TOTAL              1T 33.51 I24.05  120.94  114.83 193.33           1
T IDA                 | 17.45 1 12.22  1 5.28  1 5.25  1  40.20    l
I OTHER DONORS           5.69 I  7.14  I 9.89  I         I  22.71    I
I GOP                 I 10.37 I  4.69  I 5.77  1 9.58  !  30.42
1/ Include taxes and duties (US$14.70 million equivalent) and
contingencies (US$27.3 million equivalent).
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Figures in brackets are the amounts financed by other donors.
62.    The NTB would procure equipment and vehicles (US$43.2 million)
utilizing the services of ILO/EQUIPRO for this purpose, as under Credit
1109-PAK, at a cost of US$2.6 million. The portion financed by IDA would
be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with IDA guidelines, and the portion financed by CIDA and EEC would be in
accordance with their guidelines. Local manufacturers participating in
international bidding woul' be accorded a 152 preference. Books (US$0.3



-22-
million) would be purchased directly from publishers, distributors or book
jobbers on the basis of three competitive price quotations wherever
feasible. Construction contracts (US$22.7 million) would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Consumable
training materials (US$2.9 million) would be procured through normal
commercial channels. Fellowships and technical assistance financed by
UNDP and CIDA would be procured in accordance with their guidelines. The
award of individual contracts for civil works and furniture, estimated to
cost over US$300,000 and US$100,000, respectively, would require prior
review by IDA; these contracts would cover about 90% of the value of all
works. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
Disbursement
63.     The credit would be disbursed over a nine-year period in accord-
ance with the country disbursement profile for IDA-assisted projects.
Disbursements against contracts and expenditures of US$50,000 or less for
IDA-financed items would be made against statements of expenditure cer-
tified by the Project Director. Supporting documents would be retained by
the NTB for review by IDA. Expenditures on other items would be reim-
bursed by the appropriate cofinancier in accordance with its guidelines.
Special Account
64.     To facilitate disbursements, the Government would establish a
Special Account in U.S. dollars in the National Bank of Pakistan with an
initial deposit of US$2.0 million, which represents the estimated average
four-month expenditure on IDA-financed items. The Special Account would
be opened and operated in accordance with procedures, terms, and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA.
Accounting and Auditing
65.     The NTB would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices; the PTBs would also prepare separate
project accounts. Project accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Audited accounts would be submitted to the Association not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year and would include a statement
verifying that IDA credit funds had been used for the purpose of the
project.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.     Benefits.  The project would continue IDA's support for expanded
vocational training and, in particular, would increase available skilled
and semiskilled workers in 22 different occupations in the construction,
electrical, and mechanical fields. At full development in 1995, project
institutions would meet about 15% of the total domestic skilled and semi-



-23-
skilled manpower requirements. In addition, the project would improve
the quality of graduates from the private and public training programs.
It would also develop training programs for women in nontraditional areas
to facilitate their entrance into wage employment.
67.     The project would lead to significant institutional improvements.
Specialized units in the NTB and PTBs to oversee women's training and
employment, rural-based vocational training, and monitoring and evaluation
would help to ensure that all programs are suitably designed, implemented,
and evaluated. These units would also improve Pakistan's planning
capability, help standardize qualifications throughout the system, and
promote the evaluation of both institutional and in-plant programs. In
short, the project would strengthen the vocational training system and the
links between employers and training institutions.
68.     Risks.  Problems may emerge in the implementation of the women's
training component. Despite strong support at the federal and provincial
levels, resistance stemming from sociocultural and religious traditions is
likely to arise in villages and small towns. Implementation of a pilot
scheme focussed on major urban areas can reduce the opposition and the
potential risk. In addition, surveys have been conducted to determine
likely areas for women's training, and work situations in which the
employment of women would be most acceptable.
69.     Another risk is the strain that the expanded system may place on
the management capacity of the National and Provincial Training Boards and
the National Training Bureau. To reduce this element of risk, the project
would support the training and hiring of additional staff, greater
utilization of management review systems, and close supervision.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
69.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 19, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
Annex 1
,s.LLLL.A                                        Page 1 of 6
FICtlTS  ~         QMA -  NL ffia nUS $
MAIUT                   (No T   TCcum SST>Axn) .1
oLk  19701k UCENT  ,Olt INCM                MIDDLE NCOM
19*iLb     1970l NIUTTIL            LA U   PACIIC         A8LA * PACIFIC
ADJUSTD   ROIJEn RATLIO
PRIMARYm   TOTAL                  30.0       40.0        44.0              92.6                    100.7
PALS                  4U.0         37.0       57.0              103.5                    104.4
rTMuA                  13.0        22.0       31.0              79.3                      97.2
SEcONDART TOTAL                   11.0       13.0        14.0              31-3                     47.8
MALC                    8.0.                  20.0              40.8                      50.6
3.0         3.0         8.0              21.9                     44.8
VOCAnouNAL tS OF sEcONDART)          1.0        1.4         1.7               3.2                     18.4
PUPJIL-TAER  AIO
PFINAAT39.0                                  41.0        36.0              38.0                     30.4
SECONDNAr                         24.0       20.0        18.0              17.4                     22.2
PASSENCG  CARS/THOUSAND POP          1.5        2.6         3.4               0 0.9                    10.1
RADIO RZCEIVERS/TUOUSAND POP         6.0       17.1        74.6             129.8                     172.9
TV RZC&IVES/TUOU3AND POP             ..         1.6        11.5              19.6                     58.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GNRL
INTEREST") ClNCUIATION
PER TROoSAm POPULATION             13.2        ..         19.4              25.7                     65.3
CINIDI ANNUUAL ATTNDANCE/CAPITA      1.7        3.0 /I      2.2 /c            6.0                      3.4
LAMOt FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE CTlOUS)        14448.0    17364.0    25325.0
FEMALE CPERCENT)                   8.6        9-3        10.6              33.2                     33.6
ARcUCLTMRE (PERCENT)              61.0       59.0        57.0              69.6                     52.2
I4wShRT (PERCENT)                 18.0       19.0        20.0              15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCZNT)
TOTAL                             31.5       28.7        2S.2              41.9                     38.9
MALE                              55.2       50.4        48.3              53.6                     50.8
PEtALZ                             5.7        5.5         6.3              29.1                     26.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCT LATIO            1.5         1.7        1.7               1.0                       1.1
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RIGMET SZ OF HOUSEHOLDS           20.3 /k    17.8
-IGlEST 202 OF HOrUSZOLDS         45.3 Tk    41.8         ..                ..                       8.O
1Ac9ST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           6.4 72     8.0         ..                ..                       6.4
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS          17.5 WE    20.2         ..                ..                       15.5
P   TAERGT CRGOONE
ESTDMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LVL (US5 PEt CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..        68.0 /1   176.0 /c           133.9
RURAL                              ..    . ....... 47.0 71    122.0o T    111.6                    151.9
ESTIMATED RELATrVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..        34.0 1:    88.0 Ic             ..                     177.9
RMRAL                              ..        22.0o 7     58.07 7           61.7                    164.7
ESTDIATED POP. BELOr ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL CI)
URBAN                              ..        42.0 /1    32.0 /c            43.6                     23.5
RURAL                              ..    . ......          *43.0 TI    29.0o  51.7                  37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 3 T I s
l-  Tha group averages for each indicator are population-vlghteod artiehtic eeca.. Coverage of countriee
smang the indicators depends on avallability of data ad la not uniform.
fb  Unleam otbarvise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year beto-n 1959 and 1961; "Dta for 1970" betvecn
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Racent Zstiute" between 1981 end 1983.
Ic  1979; /d 1968; /I 1977; /f If regiatered, not all practising tn the country;  I 1980; lh 1973;
/1 A J972; .LJ 1864.
JEll. 1985



- 25 -                                                  Annex 1
T A I L. 3a                                              Page  2 of 6
PAAISTAN              - ROtiaS  IUNICATOS DATA _IrT
PAlISTAN                            MkECZ CGAUPS (NEIGNTO AVERAGj) la
mOm!                    (NT St=ll ClMATL) lb
z,eoL.  197i.Jb   ___.        LOW' IROS            i1ID(LE TN-COKE
a         197ub CSTI lb            ASIA & FACIAC ASIa 6 rACIF(l
AR ClIOUSAUD SQ. C)
TOrAL                             6U3.9      3*3.9       503.9
ACRICULTUML                       227.5      243.3      253.0
CIRR CAPITA (MU)                       ..         ..       39.0              276.3                   MuIA.I
bE10SOT  IfwTION  R CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS Of OIL £OUIVAILN3)      96.0      139.0      179.0             285.7                    504.6
PopuLAIr AsD vAL HYATs rics
POPULATION.MIIn-YEaR (TNCUSANPS)  458 5l.0    60449.0    89729.0
URBSA POPULATION C.' u TOTALI      22.1       24.9       29.1              22.3                     35.9
POPULATION PJECTIOZS
POPULATION IN  R  2000 ,rtILL)                         133.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                           330.0
POPULATION MOMENTUMI                                    1.
POPULATION DmS ITY
PER Sq. 09.                      57.0       75.2       111.6             173.8                   386.Y
PER SO. KM. a0R1. LAND          202.5      241.4       346.4            353.3                   1591.2
POPULATION AGE SrRUCrURE (I)
0-14 YIS                        43.6       46.2        *3.7              36.3                    £s.2
15-6 YRS                         51.6      5.5        53.2              59.4                     57.7
65 AND ABOVE                      4.3        3.1        2.9               *.3                      3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                             2.3        2.$        3.0               2.u                      1.3
URBAN                             4.6        4.0        4.4               6.1                      4.1
CUDE urr  RATE (PER THOUS)        46.6        46.6       42.0              27.5                     3U.I
CRiUD  DaTH RATE (PER TRoUS)       23.5       19.4       14.9              10.2                      L.
GROSS REPRODVCTON RATE              3.4        3.4        2.8               1.7                      1.9
FAMILY PLAWINIC
ACCPTORS, NNUAL (THOUS)           ..       1906.1     12".0 le
USERS (I OF MARRIED  OEN)         ..         6.0 Id    16.3              49.4                     5b.5
wO so swumnON
INOEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      89.0      102;0      101.0             136.6                    124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIdENENTS)     77.0       95.0       1u4.O            106.3                    115.7
PROTEINS (CRAMS PM DAY)          53.0       56.0       61.0              60.1                     60.3
OF HICN ANIMAL AND PULSE        23.0       22.0       20.0 /a            14.6                    14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DECTH RATE        24.9       21.1       16.0               7.3                      7.2
Lma
LIFE CIPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      13.1       46.0       50.2              60.5                     eu.e
INFANT NORT. RATE (PER ThOUS)     161.5      143.0      119.0              69.2                    64.9
ACCESS T0 MAFE IATER (2PoP)
TrOAL                                       21.0       34.b              44.2                     46.u
URN                               ..        77.0       72.D              77.2                     57.b
RURAL                                        -..       20.0              34.6                     37.1
ACCESS TO ExCRErA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULTION)
TOTAL                                        3.0        13.1              7.8                     50.1
URBN                              ..        12.0       *2.0              28.8                     52.9
RURAL                             ..         ..         2.0               5.5                     44.7
POPULATIlN PER PHYSICIN          5400.0     4300.0 if  3480.0 I          3318.0                   7751.7
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON         38110.0    10580.0 7i  5820.0 7          4690.7                   24e4.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1790.0     1860.0      1560.0 /c        1039.2                   1112.1
URBN                            510.0      650.0      710.0 7o          299.1                    631.4
RURAL                         22850.0    12480.0    118bJ.0 7-         6028.2                   2590.9
AD!tISSIO1S PER HOSPrTAL BE9        ..         ..         ..               52.3                     41.1
11SIC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.4        5.3        Si.1 /c
URBAN                             5.6        5.5        6.4 7ec
RURAL                             5.4        5.2        6.0 77.
AVERAE NO. OF PERSONS/IROK
TOTAL                             3.1        2.8 In
URaN                              3.1        2.77        ..7
RURAL                             3.1        2.d th     .
PiERCEAGE Of OwELU.ICS UwI  ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..        17.9 .b
URBAN                             ..        54.4 7i      ..
RURAL                             ..         4.9 7



-26-                                               ANNEX I
page 3 of 6
DWIITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
No  Altought hdaa edrawn from     s m lyjd then asitauiw and rinable, it ould ao be noted th tky my  not be in tonly
ra_parabeX beus of  lec " otandarvdid ddinhios nd conet usd by diffrent countrin in colbeing th data. he data   nonehlo, useul to
describe ad  ofasatudr, Indika tend, and chaactere ata  major dlfl'era betwen countre
11 ren  soups -n (1) the sam country goup of Xt subje country and (2) a country group with sonewhat higSr avems income thn the country
grop ortte ubjec nODtry (sept for"High Inn Oil yponers" grup where Middle Income Nortb Afric amd Middle Eak" is cha  becaus ofsner
so_i.ciura atkins). in dib Is group data the uabage are populadon weighted arithmec rman for eacb indicator and shown anly when majority
ftbecountne in agroi has data fai ths indiator. Since tk covemafrcountis smong the indiuto depend on th availabity data and n not uniform.
caution must be eercied in Ma*t  averge of one indicar to anothe. Thesc avere  re only usucil in comparng the value do ne indicator at a dme among
the otry and rea    groupt
AREA (thousnd sq.kn.)                                         Crude Brh Rare (per srhmsdj-Number of live births in the year
Tat-Total surface area comprising land area and inland water.    per thousand of mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Cude Deth Rate (pfr thosred.I-Number of deaths in the year
E It- timte of agricultural area used temnporarily or          per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pmaetly for crops, pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reproduciee Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
le fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estinates at current       in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prics  calcuated by saie converon method as World       Fatily PF Aeele-Acceprors. Amed (thusaedsd-Annual num-
Baik Atlas (1981-83 basis) 19183 data.                        ber of accptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPrION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  ramnly planning program.
consumption of commercial pnrmary energy (coal and lgnite.     F-U   Plaa g-rUsm (,perent ef ne ed uome)-The pace-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage Or married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contracepion. Women
1982 daxa.                                                    of child-bearing age are generally wsmen aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULAIlON AND VITAL STATISTICS                               groups.
Tad 1P3pdata.i, R Yes (thesadrj-As ofJuly 1; 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Inrdex of Fetid PI'odar  Per Cpita (1I969-TI - 100)-Index Of per
UCreb  Pepuatis. (pecet of rotda-Ratio of urban to total      capita annual production of all food commoditi Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comnpar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    endude animal conundities   ag.csure Food   of ts
include primary commnodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
-          Rwjiem                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livesock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortalitt rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
interational migration in the base year 1980. tbese parxmeters  on national average producer price weights 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           Per Capita Supply ofCalories (percet ofreqeiresesii)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies avRilable in country
ality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simnultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- I). In such a population. tbe birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture quantities used in
constant and equal to the death mte, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacemeut level.                                    waste at household leveL 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Aoulation Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita Supply of Protein (grs per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse proten, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertiuty remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year : onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Af    i  Dent                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 bec-  Supply; 1961 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              Per Capita Ptei Surpply Freo  Aaiautand PNs-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricultua land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970, and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Afpatioe Age Secibae (percert)-Children (0- 14 years). work-  CHU (ages 1-4) Deth Rate (per rhtesand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the sme age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Poplakdtn Crowtd Rate (percesfl-t4ora-Annual growth rates of  from life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
total nid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
hpuhu Grvt  are (percrt)-wrs-Annual growth rates              Life Expecresy at brth (yearsu-N umber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANEX I
-27-                                                -
page 4 of 6
at the time or of its birth were to sty de same throughout it. Iife  Pff-teacher Ratio - primary, and sewondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in prmry and secondary levels divided by numben of
Iho   Mf  aty Aenr (pr thneowd)--Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960, 1970 and 1983 dta                                 CONSUMPTION
Acm  to SO W  hter (pwt of                     ar-t.i  , a_d  Pasexe Cars (per thoamdd opuisdonJ-Paenger cars com-
el-.Number of people (totaL urba, and rural) with reaonable   prise motor can seating less than eight peons: excludes ambul-
amm to safe wter supply (includes trated surface waters or    ances. hearses and military vehicls.
untreated but unntaminated wzer such t that from protected    Radio Recedrs (per thonsaadpopulAelau-All types of receivers
borebols springs and sanitary wells) as percentage of thar respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population,
ive populations In an urban aea a pubic fountain or stuadpost  exdudes un-licensed receiven in countries and in years when
located not more than 2DO mete  rom a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reaonable   ss of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
aonable access would mply that the houswife or mem bers of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Renders lper thpouand populaionV receivers uor brondcast
in fetching the family's water needs                          to general public per thousand popuiyrw on exg udto unlicensed TV
Acce  to Ee ta Disd (peret of popsiu         4r-toal,    n    rcn m count,es and in yeas when rcgistm tion of TV se was
and rurul-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  n e
exceta disposal as percentages of their respective populations  NewsPqPer Ci,cN1.rion (per thosand populaulouJ-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collecton and disposal, with or  age circulaton of "daily generl interest newspaper." defined as a
without tretmeunt, of human exreta and waste-water by water-  peiodical publication devoted primarily to recording geral news.
bome systems or the use or pit privies and similar installations.  It is considemrd to be daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
PoputIon per Phjskidn-Pbpulation divided by number of prac-    CGmnA Ar  Atteidawu  per C&it" per Yer-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medicl school at university leve.  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Ptp.ksk.a per Nwswg Peron-sPopulation divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses assistant nurses
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
hjruliie per Hopta Bod-tosal, ara. ad dral-Po pulation        Total Labor Fome (stli*sndu)-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, genera and    a  students. etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabiuitation anters. Hospitals are emiskments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pm,anenldy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments pr-  Femk  (percemJ-Fenale labor rorce as percentage of total labor
iding principaRy custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however, indude health and medical centers not pemanently staffed  Agrikwe (percent0 -Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor foroe: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medial facilities.                                         Industry (percentJ-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adsiss   per Hespt Bed-Total numbcr of admissions to or       facturing and ectricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force. 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Participa  Rate (pecent J-totat, m*k, andfen.le-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor for e
Aveae Size of Hoehol (pess pe hou-teld)-torel. him,           as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
a-drvrl-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on lLO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reRecting age-sex structureofthe population, and
may not be included in the household ror statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sourcs.
Ay-We Nauer of Person per Reoom-tot, ar,and rival-            Economic Dependency Raid-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    6S and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DLSTRIBUTION
Percentage of DUe s with Ekcrricrp-- oral. mrban, and rural-  Percentage of Total Disosabl Incns (bot in cash and  id)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adsed Eei_went Raios                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prbnarv school - total. mal and female-Gross total, male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ags at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated Absoblte Poverry Inenw Levl (USSper cap ireap-rban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rral-Absolute poverty income level is that incom  level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
diffences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estuated Reive Poverry Inenw Leel (USS per capira)-arban
education. gross enroUment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rival-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-sbool  average per capita personal incomne of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secoufary school - tosal. mak and fenale-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated opfatn  elow Absolute Poverty Income Level (per-
mary instruction: provides general. vocational, or teacher training  centJ-unrban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
insructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
ence coures are generaly excluded.
Vocationad Enroiment (percent of secondayc-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial or other prgrams which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indeedy or as departments of secondary institutions.                                  June 1985



- 28 -
aNJX I
Pag. S of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DAM
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1982: UB$380 /A
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 19831/4 Lk                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%  constant prices)
UBS Billion        21                1969/70-1974/75. 1975176-1980/81  1981182  1982/183  1983/U4
GNP at market prices               33.68          100.0                    3.5                7.1            4.3       7.4       4.2
Gross dometic investment            5.23           15.5                   -5.5                4.1           10.5       9.6       3.4
Cross national saving               4.20           12.5                   -2.1                6.7            6.9      24.9      -6.5
Current account balance            -1.00           -3.0
Exports of goods. NiB               3.44           10.2                   -3.5                7.3           -5.6      27.5      -3.2
Imports of goods, NFS               7.06           21.0                   -7.1                5.5            0.7       121      22.0
OUTPUT. LABOR FRCE AND
PRtODUCTIVITY IN 1983/84
Value Added                   Labor Force Ic                  V. A. Per Worker
9 Million   _1_                million    %                       il        L
Agriculture                        6.652      24                14.1       51                      472      47
Industry Li                        8.096      29                 5.2       19                    1.557    155
Services                          12 L 931    _7                8.LI 3    _                      I . 55
Total/Average                   27,679    100                 27.6      100                    1.003    100
GOVERUHENT FINANCE
Central Government le                               Federml Government
(Rbillion)              %2 of GDP                 (Rs  billion)          2 of GDP
198331o4 /f    1953184  1978179-1983184          1983/84 If  1983184  1978/79-1983/F4
Current receipts                         73.2           17.4          16.6                58.2          13.9          12.4
Corrent expenditures                     80I 3ILI 1                      56                            1LI           iL03
Current surplus                          -7.2          -1.7           -6.3                -4.6         -1.1           -0.4
Capital expenditures LL                  34.2            8.1           9.4                34.2           7.0           8.0
External assistance (net)                 6.0            1.4           2.1                 6.0           1.4           2.1
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1974175   1975/76   19s76 /77   1977178   1978/79   1979180   1980181   1981 /82  1982/83  1983/84 t
(Res billion)
Money and  ucsi money Li                     33.1       41.6      51.7       63.7       76.5       90.7      103.5      113.6    146.0    162.5
Bank credi. to public sector                 21.2       28.1      36.6       43.5       54.9       61.8       70.9       79.7      95.5    105.6
Bank credit to private sector                16.0       17.8      23.0       26.5       30.9       36.9       41.9       51.3      62.8      77.8
(percentages or index numbers)
Money mad quasi money a*  2 of GDp           29.5       31.5      34.6       36.7       39.0       38.3       37.0       35.1       40.1       38.7
Consumer price index (1969170-100)          211.3     229.4      256.7      277.0      295.6      331.9      375.4      403.9      418.1      462.0
Annual percentage cbsnges in:
Consumer price index                         23.6        8.6      11.9        7.9        6.7       12.3       13.1        7.6        3.5       10.5
Bank credit to public sector                            32.5      30.2       18.8       26.2       12.6       14.7       12.4       19.8       10.6
lank credit to private sector                           11.2      29.2       15.2       16.6       19.4       13.5       22.4       22.4       23.9
l/  Based on World Bank Atlas methodology and calculated at an average of 1960-82 price.  nd exchange rates.  All other
conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
li  Provisional.
IL  Projection for 1983/84. Does not include unemployed labor force.
Ld  Includes manufacturing, mining, construction and electricity and gas.
le  Consolidated revenues  nd expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial Government
tranefers).
I. Revised budget deta.
Is  Excluding principal repayments of foreign loans.  Capital expenditures as defined in government budget include
certain current expenditures also.
lk  Provisional.
IL   Monetary statistics of Pakistan have been fully adjusted for demon tized  notes. develuation and revaluation of the
rupee, etc. as from June 30, 1975. Data for 1974/75 from State Bank sources are not strictly comparable vith IIW
estimates for earlier yeare.
Not applicable.
Not available.
March 1985



- 29 -
pag. 6 ot s
BALANCE OP PAYMENTl MEICIANDIUEIPORTS  &AVERAE 197gi80-199318U)
197910IOSl  1s811 2  19R218             938                                       Usf uiilign 
(US$ million)
1xporte of goods, NIS               2,955    3,461    3,052    3,416       3,439           Raw cotton                     315.3         11.9
Imports of goods. NFS             5J709  63466    6I67!    65188   7.035                   Cotton yarn                    214.7          9.1
Remource gap (deficit - -)         -2,754  -3,005   -3,627   -3,172    -3,619              Cotton cloth                   281.1         10.6
RNie                           417.9         13.8
Interest psysents                    -285      -357     -453      -421      -477           All other coamoditiem       14.2.d         JLA
Workhra  remittances                1,748    2,097    2,224    2.887        2,737            Total                      2,o31I4        100.0
Other factor payments (net)           ISI       274      321       193        359
Net tranfer                          .,s ___*
Balance on current account         -1,140      -991   -1,533      -511    -1,000                    EXTERNAL DEBT. JUNK 1984
Direct foreign investment              .         ..
Net NLT borrowing                                                                                                                 1tmillio
Diebursements                     1,134       916    1,102    1,301       1,248
Amortization                       -310      -516 3    492   _.J8        _=6             Public debt, including guaranteed         9,890.4
Bub-total                           824      440       610       915       679           Non-guaranteed private debt LI
Traneactione with IMK  LI              78       315      358       413         -1            Total outstanding and disbureed         9,890.4
Other items n.e.i. Lk                 600       546      318       285        142
Increase in recerves (-1             -362      -310      249   -1,102         190            DMIB  SERVICE RAtIO FOR 1933/)4 LL
Croae reservea (end year) Lf          748    1,058       809    1,911       1,731
Petroleum importe Li                1,079    1,535    1,710    1,610        1.423          Public debt, including guaranteed            15.6
Petroleum export. Li                  178       126      194        77         40          Non-guaranteed private debt
Tot.-1                                   15.6
RATE OF EXCHI=CZ                                                                              18R/IDA LDNXC (December 198) (USS millio)
Throubh Mav 11. 1972                 From May 12. 1972-Web. 15. 1973                                                            IRk         lab
1SSI - Re 4.7619                             UsSI - Rs 11.00                            Outstanding and diebursed             350.7   1,144.7
es I - USS0.21                               Rs I - US30.09                             Undisbursed                           JIVAJ    .17.2jj,
Outstanding including undiebursed   547.7   1,761.9
From Feb. 16 L 73-Jan. 7. 1982    From July 1981-June 1982 L            From July 1982-June 1983 LL         From July 1983-June 1984 IL
s$ I - Re 9.90                         USSI - Rs 10.55                  US581- Rs 12.75                     US$1 - Re 13.50
Rs  I - USS.10 IR  I - USSO.095                                        RE I - USSW.078                     Re I - U550.074
La  Including Trust Fund.
Lk  Including net chort-term borroving and errore and onimctons.
f£  Excluding gold reserves of about 1.8 million troy ounces.
Ld  Crude and derivatives.
Le  Non-guaranteed private debt service is negligible.
1f  Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods, factor and non-factor services; debt service include. IMF charges.
IR  Effective January 8, 1982, the rupee is to be managed with reference to a weighted backet of currencies.  The average
exchange rate chown ia vis-a-vis US$ for the period chown
Not available.
arch 1985



- 30 -
ANNP 11
BsTAse OF HANK GROUP OPU7AflOP2 IN PAYS8SAN
A.  ITATUNEIFI  OP RANK LOANS AND IDA  REXDIE (as of Sentambar 30. 19155) 1
(UUW$ illion)
Loan/                                                      (Amount not of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                     Undia-
Habor    4maz    tac                                       Ink -l          lI        burstd
NinLty-eight boasn  and credits fully disbursed Lk    781.4  32.0  1.001.6L
645        1976   Irrigation A Drainage (Khairpur)         --              14.0       2.7
136ST      1977   Punjab Livestock Developuont             --    10.0      -          2.6
754        1975   Salinity Control & Reelamation           --              70.0      66.6
513        1975   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --              12.5       3.7
877        1979   Salinity Control & Real. (Hatrdan)    --                 60.0      49.4
B92        1979   Primary Education                        --              10.0       3.5
922        1979   Bind Agricultural Extension              --               9.0       4.2
968        1950   Third WAPDA Powr                         --              45.0       3.5
974        1960   Third Highway                            --              50.0      11.9
1019       1960   PICIC Industrial Developm.nt             --              40.0       3.3
1109       1961   Vocational Training                      --              25.0       7.8
111314    1961   Smll Industrie                            --              30.0       0.3
117jg    1951   Grain Storage                             --              32.0      15.8
115I    1961   Agricultural Reearch                       --               24.0      15.0
1163Ls    1961   On-Farn Water Managemnt                                   41.0      12.2
116614    1962   Industrial Development (ID? II)           --              30.0       3.0
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                 40.0            -         11.9
2172       1982   Fsrtilisar  Industry Rshabilitation   38.5               -         20.3
2247       1983   Reservoir Maintenancs Facilities         10.2            -         10.0
2305       1953   Agricultural Dew. (ADS? V)               10.0            -          5.4
2324       1983   Fifth lui Nortbhrn Gas Pipelines        4?.0             -         39.9
123914    1962   Irrigation Systmem  Rshabilitation    --                  40.0      23.7
124341     1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. A Agr.          -               14.0      10.9
1256L4     1962   Technical Assistance                     --               7.0       2.9
12761      1962   Eleventh R4ilway Project                 -               50.0      36.0
1348L4     1983   Labors Urban Developmsnt                 --              16.0      14.9
13501±    1983   Population                                -               18.0      14.3
1355L&    1983   Coal Engineering                          --               7.0       6.2
137414    19B3   Karachi Water Supply                      -               25.0      20.4
1375 1     1963   Fourtb Drainage t                                        65.0      62.0
13SSOj    1953   Agricultural Development (ADSP V)    -                    47.8      14.2
2218       3983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0            -          858
2351       1984   Petroleum Exploration                    51.5            -         41.4
2374       1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development  30.0                -         22.8
2380       1984   Industrial Investment Credit             50.0            -         44.7
1439/e    1934   Industrial Investment Credit              --              50.0      44.5
1461/e    1954   Integrated Hill Farming Development  -                    21.0      21.3
14801±    1984   Second Technical Assistance               -                7.0       6.5
1487       1984   Coemand Mater  anagement                 -               46.5      46 .0
1499       1954   Second Small Industries                  --              50.0      41.1
1532       19S5   Left lank Outfall Drain - Stage 1    --                 150.0    156.4
1533       1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   --                   8.3       8.7
2499       1985   Fourth WAPHA Power                      100.0            -        100.0
1602L4    1985   Second Primry Zducation                   -               52.5      52.5
1603/c    1985   Second On-Far  Water Kanagaent            -               34.5      34.5
2552       1985   Ensrgy Sector Loan                      178.0            -        178.0
2553       1985   Petroleum Resources Joint Venture    55.0                -         55.0
25561±    1985   Fifth 1APDA Power                        100.0   _        -        1000
Total                                                 1499.6  42.0  2.202.9  1461.2
of whicb has been repaid                               501.1   4.6       44.3
Total now outstanding                                     998.5  37.4  2.158.6
Amount sold                   29.9
of wbicb has been repaid                               29      _ _-
Total  ow held by lank and IDAId                          998n 5  3l  A   2L15J6
Total undisbursed                                         638f 2   2.7    820.3  161 L 12
La The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all lank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
11 Exeludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former hast Pakistan wbicb have nov been taken over by langladesh.
Ic Not yet effective.
Li  Prior to excbange adjustnt.
LI IDA Credits under the 6th Replenisbment denominated in SDRe  The principal
is sbown in USS equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed mnounts are
computed at the exchange rate applicable on the transaction dates. Undisbursed
mmounts are valued at the exchange rate applicable on the date of this
statement.
ft  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAM (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and S77.5, respectively.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1985)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor               TYpe of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63     --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75     --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing              --      0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.       Fertilizers            1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36       2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Found.tion      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     --        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70     -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16       3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals      100.89    1.56    102.45
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capit .l Market.      4.13    0.37       4.50
Total Gross Commitments                   182.17   11.32    193.49
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              133.05    0.38    133.43
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          49.12   10.94      60.06
Undisbursed (including participants)       38.28    0.51      38.79



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Borrower to prepare project:
24 months.
Cb) Agency which prepared the project:
National Training Bureau with assistance from the ILO
CGeneva)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of first
mission to consider the project:
November 1982 and June 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
March 5, 1985.
(e) Date of completion cf negotiations:
January 22, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
July 31, 1986
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Studies to be completed, reviewed and discussed with IDA
by December 31, 1988, to assist in the formulation of new
policies or the reform of existing policies in vocational
training especially in the following areas: (i) payment
of fees (to be introduced by March 1, 1989); (ii) finan-
cial compensation and training schemes for private



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
enterprises; (iii) rural apprenticeship programs (to be
introduced by March 1, 1990); and (iv) advanced vocational
training in the industrial sector (with the introduction
of courses by March 1, 1991) (para. 52).
(b) An Advisory Body for each new vocartional training center
with representation from the local private and public
sectors and civic organizations to be established as soon
as possible but not later than three months of its opening
(paras. 45 amd 48).
(c) All new vocational training instructors to be recruited
according to a schedule acceptable to IDA and to be
enrolled in training within one year of the end of their
probation (para. 45).
(d) All staff to be appointed and project institutions main-
tained according to a staffing plan and schedule accept-
able to IDA (para. 55).
The completion of the following actions would be additional conditions of
effectiveness:
ii)  approval by ECNEC of the PC-I document for the project (para.
40);
(ii)  signing of technical assistance agreements with the cofinanciers
(para. 59); and
(iii) signing of a service contract with ILO/EQUIPRO (para. 54).



PAKISTAN                       I          ,
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT              , 4     /
n no sse ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  ^.w,5. ....   ) 4 '.i. 
~~~~   )~~~ 
r  N ~ ~     ~    ~ ~  
u               rwh  AN llsy9                            
Y IcE nEv yw^Rvem , < Mb£s / 2  ..  .
D   .'
_FGHANITNAl N   A DORA,E              \  /I
/,_./'v£S\,~~~~~~~~/'i~            cnR            \'
_  ~~~~,a                              i--                      .-H   a  r8CCuSJ ;_ .
I       OC    n ao  1 ^w s 4r-
JX / 9 __ J i 1 w S-t~~~~~~~~
// / f L^AtAN^> ( *41 /' bwtoe w°zws~~~~~~~
}/       {a        /                                    S *r 
tAsi  ,  MS WV    /    /                          A>u        sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\, O^£Wt pU&tElDFEEDEE ) ' , = 
t  5 .10,_0g  ' "r r 
N )N W) aMofi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cluen'  u..
LJ.l   S I--  TSX  =                              '.1-./C- y8'a\gg,,4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
'   <   // _7 t00ANgtIa*MASM  \I AW11NOCCt,
of~~~~~~~(                                           ty   \n~>_iF  



