'CREDIT NUMBER 1670 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Vocational Training Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            /d               , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1670 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             ,   /           , 1986, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN throug  its President (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Parts A, B, D and E (relevant portions) of the Project
will be carried out in the Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and North
West   Frontier  Provinces   of  the   Borrower  (Punjab,   Sind,
Baluchistan and NWFP, respectively, and the Provinces collec-
tively) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Provinces a
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain funds (the Other
Funding) from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
the Canadian International Development Authority (CIDA), and the
European Economic Community (EEC) in the following aggregate
principal amounts in the following currencies or currency equiva-
lents to assist in financing the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in agreements (the Other Funding Agreements) to
be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP, CIDA and EEC,
respectively:
Equivalent            Equivalent in
in Dollars        Special Drawing Rights
UNDP         2,890,000             2,630,000
CIDA         6,510,000             5,930,000
EEC         13,310,000            12,120,000; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Provinces;


﻿NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Provinces of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Special Account" means the special account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "ILO/EQUIPRO" means the Technical Cooperation Equipment
and Subcontracting Branch of the International Labor Organization
(ILO); and
(d) "FY" means the Borrower's financial year covering the
period July 1 to June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-six million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 36,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended


﻿-3-
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the National
Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Clcsing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-


﻿-4-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1996, and ending Janu-
ary 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i) shall carry out the Project (to the extent of its
responsibility) with due diligence and efficiency and
in   conformity   with    appropriate   administrative,
financial, engineering, educatio,al    and   vocational
training practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project; and
(ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other   obligations   under  the   Development   Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Provinces to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations of the Provinces therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would pre-
vent or interfere with such performance.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out and shall cause the
Provinces to carry out the Project in acordance with the Imple-
mentation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower (acting in consultation with the Provinces)
and the Association.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit available to the Provinces under procedures, and terms
and conditions, mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Parts of the Prcject to be located in the
Provinces or for which the Provinces are otherwise responsible
shall be carried out by the Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained  records   and  accounts  adequate   to  reflect,   in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-6-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until    at   least  one  year  after   the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all  records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in raspect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Any of the Provinces shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that


﻿-7-
any of the Provinces will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan (including the Other Funding)
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the   Association   that:  (A)   such   suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the   following  additional  events  are   specified,
namely, that:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c)(i) B of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (c)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿-8-
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council shall have approved the PC-1 document with respect to the
Project;
(b) an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, shall
have been entered into between the Borrower and ILO setting forth
the arrangements for procurement, through ILO/EQUIPRO, of the
equipment, vehicles, books and training materials required for
the Project; and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Other Funding Agreements (other than, if applicable, the
effectiveness of this Agreement) shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Provinces, and is
legally binding upon the Provinces in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary General or the Secretary (if
any), or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy
Secretary or Section Officer, Economic Affairs Division of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditigns:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary General to the
Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan


﻿-9-
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                             ECD IV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Develcpment Association
1818 H Street, N.-,.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works              9,360,000         49%
(2) Furniture and            2,070,000         77%
professional fees
(3) Equipment               14,800,000         100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4) Equipment                2,240,000         100%
management
fee
(5) Books                      250,000         100%
(6) Consumable train-        5,490,000         37%
ing materials,
operation and
maintenance, and
salaries of addi-
tional staff
(7) Unallocated              2,390,000
TOTAL              36,600,000


﻿-9-
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                             ECD IV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works              9,360,000         49%
(2) Furniture and            2,070,000         77%
professional fees
(3) Equipment               14,800,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4) Equipment                2,240,000          100%
management
fee
(5) Books                      250,000          100%
(6) Consumable train-        5,490,000          37%
ing materials,
operation and
maintenance, and
salaries of addi-
tional staff
(7) Unallocated              2,390,000
TOTAL              36,600,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and.
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 abo'e, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
strategy for improving the quality and extending the coverage of
the National Vocational Training    System  (NVTS) to meet the
skilled and semi-skilled manpower requirements of the industrial
and agricultural/rural sectors, and, to this end, to facilitate:
(a)  an   increase  in  the   capacity  of   existing,  and   the
establishment of new, Vocational Training Centers (VTCs); (b) the
establishment, on a pilot basis, of Women's Technical Training
Centers (WTTCs); (c) the expansion of the apprenticeship/in-plant
training programs; (d) the strengthening of instructor training
programs; and (e) the further strengthening of the management and
project implementation capacity of the National Training Board
(NTB) and the Provincial Training Boards (PTBs).
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve said objectives:
Part A: Vocational Training
1.   Upgrading  and expansion of    existing Technical Training
Centers (TTCs) and Apprenticeship Training Centers (ATCs) at
locations specified in the Annex to this Schedule through the
introduction of National Skill Standards curricula, new courses
and double shifts.
2.   Establishment  and  construction  of  new  VTCs   (including
limited hostel facilities) at locations specified in the Annex to
this Schedule to impart training in selected trades through the
introduction of National Skill Standards curricula and double
shifts.
3.   Provision of equipment, consumable training materials and
additional staff as necessary.
Part B: Apprenticeship/In-Plant Training
Upgrading of the Provincial Apprenticeship Services to
become In-plant Training Development Services in each Province
through the provision of: (i) a broadened mandate; (ii) addi-
tional   apprenticeship/training  development   officers;   (iii)


﻿- 13 -
training and upgrading of all such additional and existing
apprenticeship/training development officers; and (iv) vehicles.
Part C: Instructor Training
1.   Upgrading and expansion of the National Training Development
Institute   (NTDI)'s    facilities   at   Islamabad   to    train
instructors/senior   instructors    from   vocational    training
institutions.
2.   Provision  of  equipment, consumable   training  materials,
expert services and additional staff as necessary.
Part D: Women's Training
1.   Establishment and construction of Women's Technical Training
Centers (WTTCs) (including limited hostel facilities and a prin-
cipal's house at each center) at locations specified in the Annex
to this Schedule to impart training, on an experimental and pilot
basis, in selected non-traditional fields.
2.   Provision of equipment, consumable training materials and
additional staff as necessary.
Part E: Project Management and Implementation
1.   Strengthening of the National Training Bureau through the
expansion  of   its  Vocational  Training   and  Monitoring  and
Evaluation Units and the establishment therein of a Women's
Training and Employment Unit.
2.   Strengthening of each PTB through the expansion of its
Vocational Training Unit and the establishment therein of Women's
Training and Employment and Monitoring and Evaluation Units.
3.   Appointment of a Civil Works Adviser (local consultant) to
NTB    and     designation    of     an    officer    with     an
architectural/engineering background in each PTB to assist NTB.
4.   Provision  of office equipment, vehicles and      additional
staff, as necessary.
Part F: Studies
Carrying out of studies focussing on: (i) cost recovery and
financing of vocational training; (ii) women's training and


﻿- 14 -
employment opportunities in non-traditional areas; (iii) finan-
cial compensation schemes and training in private enterprises;
(iv) rural apprenticeship programs; and (v) survey of industrial
sector needs and demand for advanced vocational training.
Part G: Technical Assistance and Training
Provision of: (i) expatriate and local consultant services;
and (ii) international and regional training fellowships and
local training.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1994.


﻿- 15 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Existing Technical Training Centers (TTCs)
to be Expanded/Upgraded
PUNJAB
1.   T.T.C. Gulberg, Lahore
2.   T.T.C. Mughalpura, Lahore
3.   T.T.C. Multan
4.   T.T.C. Rahim-Yar Khan
5.   T.T.C. Gujar Khan
6.   T.T.C. Sargodha
7.   T.T.C. Mianwali
8.   T.T.C. Kasur
9.   T.T.C. Bahawalnagar
10. T.T.C. Depalpur
11. T.T.C. Pindighep
12. T.T.C. Sahiwal
13. A.T.C. Faisalabad
14. A.T.C. Gujranwala
15. A.T.C. Ferozewala
SIND
16. T.T.C. Sukkur
17. T.T.C. Karachi
18. T.T.C. Kotri


﻿- 16 -
NWFP
19. T.T.C. Peshawar
BALUCHISTAN
20. T.T.C. Quetta
New Vocational Training Centers (VTCs)
to be Established
PUNJAB
1.   V.T.C. Vehari
2.   V.T.C. Chakwal
3.   V.T.C. Muzaffargarh
4.   V.T.C. Bhakkar
5.   V.T.C. Leiah
6.   V.T.C. Rajanpur
7.   V.T.C. Attock
8.   V.T.C. Toba Tek Singh
9.   V.T.C. Okara
10. V.T.C. Mian Channu
11. V.T.C. Murree
12. V.T.C. Jaranwala
SIND
13. V.T.C. Sanghar
14. V.T.C. Tando Adam
15. V.T.C. Mirpur Mathelo


﻿긔


﻿- 18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof , goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines f or Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank dated May 1985.
Part B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs I through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C. Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works and furniture may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Books may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least  three   suppliers  eligible  under   the  Guidelines,   in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Consumable training materials may be procured through normal
commercial channels.
Part D. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, each contract for
furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
and each contract for equipment, the procedures set forth in


﻿- 19 -
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the studies
under Part F of this Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions   of   employment  shall   be   satisfactory   to   the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   Project Agencies
(a) At the federal level, the National Training Board (NTB)
shall be responsible for Project implementation. As such, NTB
shall be specifically responsible for: (i) upgrading and expand-
ing NTDI's facilities under Part C of the Prcject; (ii) trans-
ferring funds to the Provincial Training Boards (PTBs); (iii)
procurement of civil works, furniture, equipment, books and
vehicles; (iv) employment of experts; (v) preparation of curri-
cula; (vi) provision through PTBs of equipment, expert services
and curricula and other software support to the Project institu-
tions; (vii) submission of withdrawal applications; (viii) main-
tenance of project accounts and submission of audit reports; and
(ix) monitoring and evaluation of overall project implementation
and progress.
(b) To assist NTB in carrying out its functions effectively
under the Pcoject, the National Training Bureau (the Bureau) of
the Borrower's Ministry of Labour, Manpower and Overseas
Pakistanis shall be strengthened in the following manner:
(i) the Vocational Training Unit (VTU) of the Bureau
shall be expanded under Part E.1 of the Project,
to provide through PTBs equipment, expert ser-
vices, and curricula to the Project VTCs, and for
this  purpose   to  liaise  with  the   Vocational
Training Units of PTBs;
(ii) a Women's Training and Employment Unit (WTEU)
shall be established within the Bureau under Part
E.1 of the Project, to be responsible for coordin-
ation of instructor training for the Pr3ject
WTTCs, employment matters, materials development
and research;
(iii) a Civil Works Adviser (CWA) to the Bureau shall be
appointed under Part E.3 of the Project, to
coordinate the civil works to be carried out under
the Project and, for this purpose, to liaise with
PTBs as necessary; and


﻿- 19 -
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the studies
under  Part  F   of  this  Project, the   Borrower   shall  employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions   of   employment  shall   be   satisfactory   to   the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   Project Agencies
(a) At the federal level, the National Training Board (NTB)
shall be responsible for Project implementation. As such, NTB
shall be specifically responsible for: (i) upgrading and expand-
ing NTDI's facilities under Part C of the Project; (ii) trans-
ferring funds to the Provincial Training Boards (PTBs); (iii)
procurement of civil works, furniture, equipment, books and
vehicles; (iv) employment of experts; (v) preparation of curri-
cula; (vi) provision through PTBs of equipment, expert services
and curricula and other software support to the Project institu-
tions; (vii) submission of withdrawal applications; (viii) main-
tenance of project accounts and submission of audit reports; and
(ix) monitoring and evaluation of overall project implementation
and progress.,
(b) To assist NTB in carrying out its functions effectively
under the Project, the National Training Bureau (the Bureau) of
the  Borrower's  Ministry   of  Labour, Manpower   and   Overseas
Pakistanis shall be strengthened in the following manner:
(i) the Vocational Training Unit (VTU) of the Bureau
shall be expanded under Part E.1 of the Project,
to provide through PTBs equipment, expert ser-
vices, and curricula to the Project VTCs, and for
this  purpose   to  liaise  with  the   Vocational
Training Units of PTBs;
(ii) a Women's Training and Employment Unit (WTEU)
shall be established within the Bureau under Part
E.1 of the Project, to be responsible for coordin-
ation of instructor training for the Project
WTTCs, employment matters, materials development
and research;
(iii) a Civil Works Adviser (CWA) to the Bureau shall be
appointed under Part E.3 of the Project, to
coordinate the civil works to be carried out under
the Project and, for this purpose, to liaise with
PTBs as necessary; and


﻿- 21 -
(iv) the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) of the
Bureau shall be strengthened under Part E.1 of the
Project, to monitor and evaluate the Project.
(c) At the provincial level, the Provincial Training Board
(PTB) of the concerned Province shall be responsible for Project
implementation. As such, each PTB shall assist NTB as necessary
in the carrying out of the civil works and shall be specifically
responsible for: (i) monitoring the provision of equipment, fur-
niture, books and vehicles; (ii) maintenance of project accounts
and submission of audit reports; (iii) management and supervision
of the Project institutions and programs; and (iv) development of
provincial training plans and assessment of annual skilled
manpower requirements.
(d) To enable PTBs to carry out their functions effectively
under the Project, they shall be strengthened in the following
manner:
(i) the Provincial Vocational Training Unit (PVTU) in
each PTB shall be expanded under Part E.2 of the
Project, to monitor the activities of the Project
VTCs, provide equipment, expert services and
curricula received from NTB to the Project VTCs,
and liaise, as necessary, with the Vocational
Training Unit of NTB;
(ii) a Provincial Women's Training and Employment Unit
(PWTEU) shall be established within each PTB under
Part E.2 of the Project, to be responsible for
instructor   training  for   the  Project   WTTCs,
reorienting policies and programs, employment
matters, regional coordination and research;
(iii) an officer with an architectural/engineering back-
ground shall be designated within each PTB under
Part E.3   of  the  Project, to    assist NTB   as
necessary in the carrying out of the civil works
under the Project; and
(iv) a   Provincial  Monitoring   and  Evaluation  Unit
(PMEU) shall be established within each PTB under
Part E.2 of the Project, to monitor and evaluate
the Project institutions and pro,rams within its
area of responsibility.


﻿- 22 -
(e) The Vocational Training, Monitoring and Evaluation and
Women's Training and Employment Units referred to in Part E.1 of
the Project, and the Provincial Vocational- Training, Women's
Training and Employment and Monitoring and Evaluation Units
referred to in Part E.2 of the Project shall be established or
strengthened, and staffed, equipped and maintained, and the Civil
Works Adviser and officers referred to in Part E.3 of the Project
shall be recruited/designated and retained, all in accordance
with a time-table satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Employment of Other Consultants
The Consultants to be employed to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the Project and whose services are to be financed
out   of  the   proceeds  of   the  Other   Funding  shall  have
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association.
3.   Procurement of Other Goods
The goods required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Other Funding shall conform to specifications
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Training Fellowships
The training fellowships to be provided to instructors and
other staff under the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Other Funding shall be awarded to candidates, and
in fields and institutions, satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Additional Staff Requirements
The additional staff required for the Project shall be
appointed s,bstantially in accordance with the schedule set forth
in Annex A to this Schedule.
6.   Land Acquisition
The sites required for the Project shall be acquired in
accordance with the schedule set forth in Annex B to this
Schedule.
7.   Advisory Bodies
An Advisory Body, including respresentation from local busi-
ness, public and civic organizations, shall be established for


﻿- 23 -
each new Project VTC and each Project WTTC as soon as possible,
but in any case not later than three months after the opening of
such VTC or WTTC, with a view to promoting liaison between each
such VTC or WTTC and such organizations.
8.   Training of Instructor Recruits
All new instructor recruits at the new Project VTCs shall be
enrolled for suitable training courses within one year after
successful completion of their probation.
9.   Policy Studies
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1988,
complete and review with the Association the results of the
studies to be carried out under Part F of the Project. Such
studies shall specifically provide for the introduction:
(a) by March 1, 1989, of a system under which an increasing
proportion   of   training  costs   would   be   recovered   from
beneficiaries;
(b) by March 1, 1990, of a pilot program in rural
apprenticeship training; and
(c) by March 1, 1991, of Level I (advanced vocational
training) courses in selected institutions.


﻿늬


﻿25
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 4
SCHEDULE OF LAND ACQUISITION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I       TYPE OF INSTITUTION  -   I       LATEST DATE OF
PHASE     I    VTC   I    WTC       NTDI   I      SITE ACQUISITION
-------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------------------------
PHASE I
--------------
Punjab            2
Sind              3
NWFP              3
Baluchistan       I
-------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------------------------
F              AUGUST 31, 1986
-------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------------------------
PHASE II
--------------
Punjab            3          1
Sind
NWFP
Baluchibtan
Federal
--------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------------------------
AUGUST 31, 1987
-------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------------------------
PHASE III
--------------
Punjab            3          1
Sind              2
NWFP              2
Baluchistan       2
-------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------------------------
MARCH 31, 1988
-------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------------------------
PHASE IV
--------------
Punjab            3
Sind              2
NWFP              1
Baluchistan       I                                                       I
-------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------------------------
AUGUST 31, 1989
-------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------------------------


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories (1) to (6)
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to SDR 1,900,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 27 -
expenditures. Each such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories (1) to (6), and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing   that  such  payment was    made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories (1) to (6) for
the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories (1) to (6) for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.   Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 28 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the i  St      day of
198   S
FOR SECRETARY
I


