Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19399
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(Credit No. 2538-MAG)
June 10, 1999
Energy Team
Infrastructure Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
Year                         US$1.00 = FMG
1989                              1603
1990                              1494
1991                              1835
1992                              1864
1993                              1914
1994                              3067
1995                              4266
1996                              4061
1997                              5091
1998                              5273
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                  Agence Francaise de Developpement
ESMAP               Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
LGP                 Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MEM                  Ministry of Energy and Mines
OMH                  Office Malgache des Hydrocarbures
SOLIMA               Solitany Malagasy
Vice President                     Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director                  Mr. Michael Sarris
Sector Manager                    Mr. Mark Tomlinson
Team Leader                       Mr. Angel Baide



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(Credit No. 2538-MAG)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ................                                                           - iv
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.     Project Background ...............................                        1
II.    Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ...............................4
III.    Achievement of Objectives ...............................4
IV.    Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............................8
V.    Project Sustainability ...............................9
VI.    Bank Performance ....9..........................9
VII.   Borrower Performance .............................. 10
VIII.  Assessment of Outcome .............................. 10
IX.    Future Operation ..............................                          10
X.    Key Lessons Learned .............................. 10
Part II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1        Summary of Assessments .............................. I I
Table 2       Related Bank Credits ..............................                      13
Table 3        Project Timetable ..............................                        14
Table 4        Credit Disbursements ..............................                     14
Table 5       Key Indicators for Project Implementation .............................. 15
Table 6        Studies Included in Project .............................. 16
Table 7A  Project Costs .17
Table 7B  Project Financing .17
Table 8    Status of Legal Covenants .18
Table 9    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .21
Table 10   Bank Resources: Missions .22
Part im: APPENDICES
A. Aide-Memoire of ICR mission ....................... 23
B. Borrower's Contribution  ....................... 26
Map: IBRD No. 30305
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thie
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authiorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(Credit No. 2538-MAG)
Preface
1.          This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Madagascar's
Petroleum Sector Reform Project, for which Credit 2538-MAG in the amount of
SDR 36.7 million was approved on July 29, 1993. An amendment to the Credit and
Project Agreements was approved on October 18, 1996, and became effective on October
7, 1997. The amendment cancelled SDR 9.4 million, which had been destined to finance
a rehabilitation of the Borrower's refinery at Toamasina.
2.          The credit closed on December 31, 1998, the original closing date. It
disbursed only SDR 3.3 million or 9 percent of the original credit amount and the last
disbursement took place on May 21, 1999. No co-financing was involved.
3.          This ICR was prepared by Angel Baide (AFTG 1), and reviewed by
Michael N. Sarris (AFC08), Patricio Millan (LCC5F), Thuvara S. Nayar (EMTOG), and
Noureddine Bouzaher (AFTG1). The Borrower reviewed the draft ICR and, during the
ICR mission in April 1999, provided oral comments which were taken into account in
preparing the final version. The report was processed by Lily Wong, Team Assistant
(AFTG1).
4.          The ICR is based on materials in the project files, as well as on the ICR
mission's findings. The Borrower contributed its own evaluation of the project's design
and execution, which is included as Appendix B to the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(Credit No. 2538-MAG)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.          The concept of the Petroleum Sector Reform Project evolved from the findings
of an ESMAP energy sector assessment published in 1987, and a World Bank study of the
petroleum sector completed in 1989. These studies identified the following petroleum sector
problems: (a) deteriorated state of installations and equipment; (b) inefficient import and
refining operations; (c) inefficient pricing and taxation of petroleum products; and (d) non
transparent and inefficient procurement of crude oil and refined products. Solitany Malagasy
(SOLIMA), the national petroleum company, was in charge of all petroleum operations and
installations in the country. The government had created SOLIMA to take over the operations
of foreign oil companies when it nationalized the sector in 1976.
2.          At the time the project was identified, the government was particularly
interested in rehabilitating the country's refinery at Toamasina. In 1982, SOLIMA had
completed, at a cost of about $20 million, a major reconfiguration of the refinery -- built in
1966 as a simple hydro-skimming facility -- by adding a visbreaker, a desulfurization unit, and
a bitumen unit. But the new section had been disabled by an explosion shortly after
commissioning. Moreover, while this extension was being built, the rest of the refinery had
deteriorated rapidly, because the heavy investment program had used up all of SOLIMA's
foreign exchange, leaving little for maintenance needs. As a result, the refinery suffered
frequent accidents, including fires, which forced it to shut down for months at a time.
3.          Although the Bank studies expressed doubts about the feasibility of refinery
rehabilitation, mainly because its justification depended on the price differential between crude
and refined products, which was determined by external factors, consultants financed by a
project preparation facility (PPF) showed the rehabilitation to have a very high rate of return.
The same consultants also pointed to the serious environmental and safety risks posed by
inadequate existing loading-unloading facilities at Toamasina, and by the old, leaky pipelines
connecting those facilities to the refinery, and recommended building a new maritime
petroleum terminal and replacing the pipelines. The Bank accepted to finance a first stage
rehabilitation of the refinery, as well as construction of a new petroleum terminal and pipelines
at Toamasina, as part of a project that would liberalize downstream petroleum sector
operations, and prepare the way for a possible private participation in the refinery. Following
a recommendation by the Bank, the project also would rehabilitate storage and transport
infrastructure around the country.



- ii-
4.          Within the framework of the dialogue leading to project approval, the
government adopted a series of measures to improve petroleum-product pricing and taxation,
as well as the procurement of crude oil and refined products. In 1991, the government
introduced pricing based on the concept of import-parity, reflecting actual costs, with monthly
adjustments by SOLIMA. In 1992, SOLIMA adopted international competitive bidding (ICB)
as the method to procure crude oil and refined products. In 1993, shortly before credit
negotiations, the government issued Decree 93-002, declaring that the purchase, transportation,
storage, transformation, and distribution of all petroleum products were liberalized.
5.          The project called for market liberalization and the introduction of competition
in the petroleum sector. For this purpose it advocated separation of the refinery from the rest
of SOLIMA. After rehabilitation, the refinery would have to compete with imports of refined
products. Essential infrastructures would be managed by a joint-venture of SOLIMA and
private operators under an "open-access" logistic system. SOLIMA would no longer enjoy the
monopoly of distribution either, it would have to compete with new private entrants. In
retrospect, this scenario was unrealistic. It was, for example, unlikely that the government,
after investing in refinery rehabilitation, would allow the refinery to close in case it could not
compete against imports. Most probably the government would have offered protection to the
refiner. This strong possibility, and the presence of state-owned SOLIMA in logistics and
distribution, discouraged private oil companies from entering the sector even after legal
liberalization of petroleum activities was completed in 1995.
6.          A number of disbursement conditions, making rehabilitation works dependent
on progress in the reform component, became a source of delays, especially when, during
project implementation, the Bank changed its position on reform, and began pressing for
outright privatization of SOLIMA. Agreement on privatization took a very long time to
materialize. In the meantime, disbursement conditions were not being complied with, and
execution of infrastructure components was therefore blocked. To complicate things further,
the project implementation period was a time of great institutional uncertainty as evidenced by
the many government changes the country went through. Between project identification in
1989 and credit closing at the end of 1998, there were eight Ministers of Energy and Mines,
and SOLIMA's top management team changed twice.
Project Objectives
7.          The objectives of the project were: (a) to open up the petroleum sector to
private participation and create the framework for a competitive environment; (b) to support
basic infrastructure investments so as to increase operational efficiency and attract private
operators and investors; and (c) to develop institutional capacity for the efficient regulation of
the petroleum sector. To achieve these objectives, the project included the following
components: (A) SOLIMA's restructuring and corporatization, including creation of a refining
subsidiary; establishment of an open-access system for the use of essential infrastructures; and



- iii -
capacity building for regulation. (B) Rehabilitation of the refinery and technical assistance for
its management. (C) Rehabilitation and expansion of storage and transport infrastructure.
Replacement of pipelines. (D) Construction of a new maritime petroleum terminal at
Toamasina. And (E) An LPG promotion program.
Implementation Experience and Results
8.          The project achieved partially its reform objectives. Reform, in the end, was
deeper than originally proposed, with the full privatization of SOLIMA. The project prepared
a draft new legal framework, and also a strategy to privatize SOLIMA. The proposed
petroleum law was adopted by the National Assembly in March 1999, after credit closing. The
regulatory agency is being set up. The privatization of SOLIMA is being implemented,
basically following the strategy developed by the project. The project had initially helped
prepare a legal framework for liberalization, based on Decree 93-002, followed in 1995 by
Decree 565-95, which introduced modem principles of sector operations. In 1996, the
government issued an international invitation to private oil companies to enter Madagascar's
liberalized petroleum sector, but with no results. The international oil companies expressed
concerns about the dominant position SOLIMA would enjoy as a state-owned operator.
9.          The project did not achieve its original objectives concerning infrastructure.
Refinery rehabilitation was dropped after the government, with some encouragement from the
Bank, requested an amendment to the Credit and Project Agreements canceling the component.
One reason for abandoning refinery rehabilitation was that the facilities had continued to
deteriorate, making economic viability increasingly doubtful. Other rehabilitation works could
not be executed due to the disbursement conditions linking them to the institutional
component, which was progressing very slowly. Also, once the government agreed to
privatize SOLIMA, the idea of public investment to rehabilitate infrastructure lost its
justification. With the decision to privatize, modernization of installations was left to be
implemented by the new private owners.
10.         The project could not complete even the engineering design for the new
petroleum terminal at Toamasina. During project preparation, an engineering firm had
identified a new site within the harbor, and completed a feasibility study, including an
environmental analysis. But an environmental expert later hired to verify the conclusions of
the feasibility study rejected the site due to safety and environmental concerns. A second
engineering consultant tentatively selected a new site located directly in front of the refinery.
This minimized the length of pipelines, but the site was on open seas. A bathymetric survey,
and wind, current and wave measurements were carried out. A simulation study based on
these measurements showed the new site was also inadequate, because of the rough sea
conditions. Concerning LPG promotion, the project financed procurement of 47,000 LPG
bottles, but did not execute any of the envisaged investments in expansion and rehabilitation of
storage and transport facilities, because of disbursement conditions and the decision to
privatize.



- iv -
11.         During the period of project execution, the Bank kept pushing for liberalization
and for privatization, not only within the framework of the project itself, but also as part of the
dialogue for two Structural Adjustment operations and also a private sector development study
that was followed by a private sector development project. When the government finally
agreed to put SOLIMA on the list of public enterprises slated for privatization, the consultants
hired by the project to study SOLIMA's restructuring were asked to prepare a privatization
strategy for the company. The financial advisor and other assistance required for the
privatization is being financed by the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building
Project (Cr. 2956-MAG). SOLIMA was split into several companies which were awarded to
private bidders in April 1999. The privatization is expected to be completed by end of July
1999.
Summary of findings, future TA and training, and key lessons learned
12.         The project was one of the vehicles the Bank used to press a reluctant
government to open the sector to private participation and to divest from SOLIMA's
installations and operations. This process involved a difficult struggle, particularly since the
Bank de facto changed the scope of reform. The reform program as defined in the Credit
Agreement did not include the privatization of SOLIMA. Political instability in the country
made things more difficult. Progress was very slow, because the government was not
interested in privatization. Cancellation of refinery rehabilitation reduced the interest of the
project for SOLIMA and the government. The infrastructure components were blocked by
disbursement conditions.
13.         The lesson that can be drawn from this experience is that the Bank should have
either stuck to the original project objectives, showing more patience, or, once it decided to go
for privatization, should have drawn the full consequences and proposed a radical restructuring
of the project. Following the decision to privatize, most of the investment components should
have been cancelled. The project could have instead supported investments required as part of
the privatization process, such as environmental cleanup operations. Investments in
infrastructure would have been left to the private sector.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(Credit No. 2538-MAG)
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
L.  PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    The project concept evolved from the findings of two studies done between 1984 and
1989: an ESMAP energy sector assessment, and a report on the petroleum sector'. The
situation found was: (a) substantial deterioration of most petroleum installations and
equipment; (b) inefficient import and refining operations; (c) inefficient pricing and taxation2
of petroleum products; and (d) non transparent and inefficient procurement of crude oil and
refined products. Both reports paid much attention to the refinery at Toamasina. The
refinery has continued to be at the center of the debate and at the center of the difficulties to
implement sector reform, even now, at the beginning of 1999, when the state-owned
petroleum company SOLIMA is being privatized. This reflects the government's reluctance
to give up control of petroleum imports, explained as a concern to guarantee security of
supply.
2.    The refinery, commissioned in 1966, is a simple hydroskimming facility, with a
processing capacity of 450,000 tons per year, which was increased in 1972 to 750,000 tons
per year3. Until 1976, the refinery was owned by a group of foreign oil companies and
operated by one of them, the French company Elf. Since nationalization in 1976, the refinery
has been operated by SOLIMA. In 1982, SOLIMA undertook, at a cost of about $20 million,
a major reconfiguration by adding a visbreaking unit, a gas-oil desulfurization unit, and a
bitumen unit. Shortly after commissioning, this extension was disabled by an explosion. At
the same time, the rest of the installations had deteriorated considerably due to inadequate
maintenance, as a result of the strain the heavy investment program had put on SOLIMA's
limited foreign exchange. There was a succession of shutdowns caused by operation and
maintenance related problems, several involving fires.
3.    Because of the large investment that had just been made, the reaction was to identify
what additional investments were required in order to solve all the problems. In 1984, the
French CCCE (now AFD) financed repairs, and also a feasibility study for the refinery's
complete rehabilitation and upgrading. The study, updated in 1986, showed rehabilitation to
ESMAP, Jan. 1987, Madagascar: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, Report No. 5700 MAG.
World Bank, July 1989, Madagascar - Petroleum Sector Report, Report No. 7986 MAG.
2     SOLIMA negotiated every year, ex-post, the amount to be paid in taxes to the State. This was
necessary to ensure SOLIMA's financial equilibrium, given that the government kept prices too low.
3     Despite this expansion, the refinery's production has never exceeded 450,000 tons per year.



- 2 -
be technically and economically feasible, but also that the rate of return depended on a
parameter determined by the international market: the "refining margin", or price differential
between crude oil and the products obtained from it. This parameter was influenced
particularly by large, efficient, export-oriented refineries in the gulf region, and was
uncertain. The margin was small, of the order of 5 percent of the cost of feedstock, and this
resulted in an extreme sensitivity of the rehabilitation's rate of return to variations in the
relative prices of crude oil and refined products.
4.    This study, as well as the Bank studies, also noted that in addition to rehabilitation,
efficient management was a necessary condition of the refinery's viability. The refinery
needed quick reaction capabilities in the procurement of feedstock to take advantage of
opportunities in the international oil market, a sizable foreign exchange fund, improved
operation and maintenance, etc.. The recommendations were to invest in rehabilitating and
provide money for spare parts, to improve operations planning, to train personnel, and to
provide technical assistance. There was no mention of the unlikelihood that an efficient
performance could be sustained by a state-owned enterprise. The studies on the refinery
sought to find the least cost method to supply the country. The underlying assumption was
that, in case rehabilitation failed to make the refinery competitive, the consequence would be
a higher cost for the country's fuel supplies, not bankruptcy and closure for the refining
company. It is very doubtful, in any case, that the government would have let the refinery
close after having invested in its rehabilitation.
5.    The ESMAP and Petroleum Sector studies recommended more detailed study of
rehabilitation feasibility. After the ESMAP study, the Bank informed the government it
would not finance refinery rehabilitation, but would not oppose it either. After the petroleum
sector study, however, the Bank agreed to finance from a PPF the more complete study that
had been recommended. This study showed rehabilitation to have a very high rate of return.
The consultants also recommended building a new petroleum terminal at Toamasina, and
replacing old, leaky pipelines running between the port and the refinery. Indeed, continued
operation of the current installations presents serious public-safety and environmental risks.
6.    The Bank agreed to finance a first stage of refinery rehabilitation, as well as the
construction of a new petroleum terminal and associated pipelines at Toamasina, subject to
the government's agreement to liberalize petroleum-product imports and distribution, as well
as some form of private participation in the refinery at a later unspecified date. The project
also would finance technical assistance for SOLIMA, particularly a management contract for
the refinery to be run by a professional operator for a three-year period during and after
rehabilitation. Finally, following a recommendation by the Bank, the project would finance
rehabilitation of transport and storage infrastructure around the country.
7.    During project preparation, and within the framework of the dialogue with the Bank,
the government introduced adequate petroleum-product pricing in 1991, based on the concept
of import parity and reflecting actual costs, with automatic adjustments by SOLIMA. The
government also rationalized taxation, increasing rates and eliminating differences between
products. Tax revenue increased dramatically as a result of these changes. Also, in 1992,



- 3 -
SOLIMA adopted ICB as the method to procure crude oil and petroleum products. However,
there were from time to time interruptions in the application of price adjustments, in one case
following public demonstrations by taxi and truck drivers. Procurement based on ICB has
been suspended since mid- 1996, because of the uncertainty of SOLIMA's remaining life
following the decision to privatize. Since then, SOLIMA has signed successive addenda to
the last contract awarded on the basis of ICB.
8.    The project was to be a vehicle to open the downstream petroleum sub-sector to
private participation and competition, but it proposed at the same time to maintain and
strengthen the state-owned SOLIMA as refiner and distributor. Although liberalization
would include freedom to import, the project would finance the rehabilitation of SOLIMA's
refinery, thus creating pressures to give the refiner control of imports. To level the playing
field, all "essential infrastructures", meaning loading-unloading facilities, large storage
facilities, and bulk transport, would be operated under an "open-access system", by
SOLIMA, in ajoint-venture with the future private distributors. To help ensure SOLIMA's
competitiveness vis-a-vis private distributors, the project would support the company's
restructuring and modernization. This model of sector reform proved to be unrealistic. The
strong state presence discouraged private oil companies from entering the sector after legal
liberalization was completed in 1995.
9.    The project included a number of disbursement conditions making rehabilitation
works dependent on progress on the reform component. These conditions became a source of
delays because after effectiveness the Bank began pressing for outright privatization of
SOLIMA. This represented an important change in the Bank's position on reform. The only
mention of privatization in the Credit Agreement is of an "eventual private sector
participation in the capital" of SOLIMA, an approach chosen after extensive internal debate
at the Bank during project preparation. Despite its change of position, the Bank took no
action to amend the Credit Agreement on this point. The discussion on privatization was
difficult. The government began taking concrete steps to privatize SOLIMA only in 1997.
In the meantime, disbursement conditions were not being met, and execution of infrastructure
components was therefore blocked.
10.   The Board approved the project in July 1993, just before a major political change
after the country's first presidential elections in 20 years. The credit became effective only in
September 1994, after several extensions of the deadline. Delays were partly the result of the
government change, which entailed replacement of staff at the Ministry and SOLIMA. But
also, the 90-day period allowed was too short for one of the conditions, later waived: the
completion of bidding documents for the rehabilitation of the refinery. At the beginning of
1994, the new government expressed doubts about the project, particularly about refinery
rehabilitation. Indeed, the idling parts of the refinery had continued to deteriorate, and the
installations had been severely damaged by cyclone Geralda in February of that year. The
Bank took advantage of the concerns expressed by the government to propose, even before
the credit became effective, the cancellation of the refinery component.



- 4 -
II.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
11.   The project had the following objectives: (a) to open up the petroleum sector to
private participation and create an appropriate framework for a competitive environment;
(b) to support the basic infrastructure investments required to increase operational efficiency
and to attract private operators and investors; and (c) to develop institutional capacity for the
efficient regulation of the petroleum sector.
12.  In order to achieve its objectives the project included the following components:
Part A      Sector reform, comprising the following: (i) restructuring and corporatization
of SOLIMA, and eventual private sector participation in its capital, including constitution of
a subsidiary for the refinery; (ii) establishment of an open access system to key infrastructure;
and (iii) establishment of a national regulatory authority to oversee the sector.
Part B      Rehabilitation of SOLIMA's refinery, and management assistance to
SOLIMA's refining subsidiary.
Part C      Improvement of storage and transport infrastructure comprising:
(i) acquisition of 18 rail tankers; (ii) rehabilitation of existing storage tanks and construction
of new tanks; (iii) replacement of pipelines from the port of Toamasina to the refinery;
(iv) improvement of unloading facilities at Mahajanga and Manakara; and (v) improvement
of petroleum unloading operations and of transport and distribution.
Part D      Construction of a new maritime petroleum terminal at Toamasina.
Part E      LPG promotion program, including the acquisition of bottles, construction of
storage tanks, rehabilitation of filling stations, and acquisition of transport equipment.
13.   Although the objectives were clear and adapted to Madagascar's needs, they were
undermined by the project components, in the sense that those components would have
helped the State to maintain an overbearing presence in the sector. The investment in
refinery rehabilitation, for example, would create strong pressures for the government to
protect it against competition, thus giving de-facto control of imports to state-owned
SOLIMA, and undermining liberalization.
111. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
14.   The project achieved partially the objective of opening the sector to private
participation through preparation of a new legal framework. It did not achieve the objective
of improving basic infrastructure. Investments to improve infrastructure, however, will be
carried out by the new private owners. The project could not contribute to capacity building
for regulation, as the regulatory agency could not be set up before credit closing.



-5 -
Part A. Sector reform
15.   During project preparation, the government had issued Decree N° 91-43 1, introducing
import-parity pricing and automatic adjustment formulas, and Decree 93-002, declaring that
the purchase, transportation, storage, transformation and distribution of all petroleum
products were liberalized. Decree 93-002 indicated that detailed application rules would be
defined by future decrees.
16.  In August 1995, a local Working Group, assisted by a World Bank mission including
a legal expert, identified the elements required in a new legal framework to implement the
decision to liberalize. The group produced a draft decree that was issued as Government
Decree 565/95 on August 29, 1995. This important decree introduced modem principles of
petroleum sector operations: (a) entry would be regulated through a system of operation
licenses and -- for the case of new petroleum installations -- construction permits;
(b) petroleum installations and petroleum operations would have to comply with international
industry norms and standards; (c) installations and operations also would have to comply
with applicable environmental regulations; (d) prices would be set by supply and demand;
(e) the Administration and the supervisory agency had clearly defined roles; (f) owners of
unused storage capacities could not refuse access, even to competitors, in exchange for a fair
negotiated fee.
17.   Decree 565/95 listed a number of complementary technical regulations that had to be
issued in the forn of Ministerial decrees. These were indeed issued in quick succession in
the following months. Decree 565/95 established certain measures that were to be applied
only during an initial transitional period, until competition would materialize. During that
period, all "essential infrastructures" would be shared by all players under an open access
system, and the supervisory agency would set price caps for a number of products.
18.  In September 1996, the government distributed internationally, a booklet containing
the legal texts liberalizing the sector and invited international oil companies to come to
Madagascar. The Government also indicated it was seeking partners to take either a minority
or majority share in the refinery. Private oil companies, however, were skeptical, and their
response to the invitation lukewarm. They expressed concerns about depending on SOLIMA
for their supplies of products. They felt they would be exposed to unfair competition on the
part of SOLIMA. Also, the government at the time was not complying with all the
provisions of the legal framework, particularly concerning automatic price-cap adjustments,
raising doubts about the reliability of the new rules.
19.   After many problems and delays, MEM hired a consulting firm in November 1996 to
assist with the three elements of this component: SOLIMA's restructuring, detailed
definition of the free access system, and setting up of a regulatory agency. The contract
included the option for the consultant to act as financial advisor for the privatization of
SOLIMA, against a success fee, should the government decide to divest. The consultants did
an assessment of SOLIMA's situation and operations, and carried out an inventory of its
installations and an estimate of investment needs. By then, the government, under pressure



from the Bank within the framework of the first structural adjustment credit (SAC 1), had
already agreed to privatize SOLIMA. The government asked the consultant to assist in
defining a privatization strategy. The consultant prepared a strategy proposal that was the
basis for the privatization strategy eventually adopted by the government.
20.   The consultant also produced a draft decree to create the regulatory agency that
should oversee the sector. In February 1998, the government issued Decree 150/98, a
modified version of the draft produced by the consultant, creating the Office Malgache des
Hydrocarbures (OMH). In October 1997, the Government informed the consultant that it
would not require its services for the privatization phase. In November 1997, the government
and the Bank agreed that the technical assistance required for SOLIMA's privatization would
be financed from the Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
(Cr. 2956-MAG), approved by the Board in May of that year. The Petroleum Project would
concentrate on finalizing the new sector legal framework.
21.  In view of the decision to privatize, the government and the Bank agreed that a
complete revision of the legal framework should be carried out. In October 1998, a
consultant financed by the project completed a draft law and a set of complementary
regulations to be issued as decrees. The law, which incorporates all the basic principles that
had been introduced by Decree 565-95, was approved by the National Assembly in March
1999.
Part B. Rehabilitation of the refinery
22.   During project preparation, a consultant had shown the proposed rehabilitation to
have a payback period of less than three years. However, even before effectiveness, the Bank
was having doubts about the rehabilitation. So, when the new government also expressed
doubts at the beginning of 1994, the Bank proposed to seek a second opinion. In mid-1994, a
new consultant, financed by a trust fund, found the rehabilitation to be a loss-making
proposition, and recommended converting the refinery into a storage depot. One factor that
helps explain the different conclusion was that, in the intervening years, the physical
condition of the idling facilities, exposed to a corrosive saline atmosphere, had continued to
deteriorate rendering cost estimates obsolete. Cyclone Geralda, which caused heavy damages
in February 1994, represented a final blow.
23.   SOLIMA responded to the new recommendations by doing a study of its own, which
again demonstrated the rehabilitation had a very high rate of return. With some help from the
SAC 1 team, the Bank finally obtained in mid-1995 the government's official request to
cancel Part B of the project. Draft amended credit and project agreements were prepared by
the Bank and sent to the government in December 1995. The agreements were approved by
the government in June 1996 and by the Board in October 1996. The amended agreements
were signed in January 1997, and became effective in October 1997, after ratification by the
National Assembly. US$13 million of the credit were cancelled.



- 7 -
Part C. Storage and transport infrastructure
24.   To assist with Parts C and D, SOLIMA recruited an engineering firm in December
1995. Disbursements for works corresponding to Part C were subject to the establishment of
the regulatory agency. One of the sub-components, the acquisition of 18 rail tankers did not
involve works and could have gone ahead. SOLIMA prepared the necessary bidding
documents, but these were never issued. The reason was that the railroad had suffered
extensive cyclone damages in early 1994, and its survival is still today far from assured.
SOLIMA, assisted by the engineering firm, also carried out an assessment of rehabilitation
needs in a number of storage depots and prepared technical specifications and bidding
documents for rehabilitation works, but the bid documents were not issued, because of the
lack of progress on the institutional side and the related disbursement conditions.
25.   The replacement of pipelines depended on the siting of Toamasina's new petroleum
terminal under Part D. SOLIMA's engineer completed the design of shorter pipelines
corresponding to the new site proposed for the terminal, but this site could not be confirmed
before credit closing. Improvement of unloading facilities at Manakara was discarded, after
preliminary investigations showed that it would be very expensive and environmentally
sensitive due to large coral barriers. The improvement of unloading facilities at Mahajanga
was prepared together with the engineering for the Toamasina petroleum terminal under
Part D. Engineering was not yet completed when the credit closed.
26.   Nothing was done concerning the envisaged provision of software and technical
assistance for improving petroleum unloading operations, as well as product transport and
distribution. This was to be a complement to the construction of the new petroleum terminals
and rehabilitation of depots, which were never implemented.
Part D. Construction of a new maritime petroleum terminal at Toamasina
27.   During project preparation, the PPF financed a feasibility study of the relocation of
Toamasina's petroleum terminal. The consultant studied several sites, and selected one
located within the protected harbor. The study included an assessment of environmental
impact which stressed the reduction of risks with respect to the current location. However,
shortly after the project was approved by the Board in mid 1993, at the urging of the Africa
Region's Environmental Division, an individual expert was recruited to review the case.
He concluded that the proposed site was unsuitable from the environmental and safety
standpoints. A new site, therefore, had to be found. The recruitment of a new engineering
consultant was completed only at the end of 1995.
28.   The consulting engineer studied possible new sites and prepared preliminary designs
both for Toamasina and for Mahajanga. The tentative Toamasina site was now facing the
refinery, which would eliminate the need for long pipelines, and was in a less sensitive area
from the environmental point of view, but it was on the other hand exposed to cyclones. The
project financed a bathymetric survey of the sites, and an investigation of winds, waves, and
sea-currents. Based on the latter, the consulting engineer completed in December 1998 a



simulation study which again raises doubts about the feasibility of the proposed site for
Toamasina due to the rougher sea conditions. So, the project could not finalize the
engineering for the new terminals. After confirmation of the site, the project would have
financed a geo-technical survey and an environmental impact assessment. The engineer
completed draft bidding documents including technical specifications, but the foundation
design was not finalized, as it required the results of the geo-technical survey.
Part E. LPG promotion program
29.   The project financed the procurement of 47,000 LPG bottles of three different sizes,
which were immediately put in circulation when received in mid-1998. SOLIMA, assisted
by the consulting engineer, began preparing specifications for gas storage installations to be
financed by the project. This work was interrupted after the government agreed to privatize.
IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
30.   Three major factors affected project execution. First, the change of mind about
refinery rehabilitation. Second, the Bank's decision to press a reluctant government for full
privatization of SOLIMA. Third, the many political changes the country went through
between 1989, the year the project was identified, and 1998, when the credit closed.
31.   Even before credit effectiveness, the Bank came to the conclusion that the
rehabilitation of the refinery did not make sense. It managed to obtain, with some help from
SAC discussions, a Government request for the cancellation of this component. This change
reduced the Government's interest in the project. Also, it required a new presentation to the
Board, and ratification by the National Assembly. The whole process took two years to
complete and slowed down project activities from 1995 to 1997. Several extensions of
deadlines were again necessary.
32.   The design of the reform component had been extensively discussed within the Bank
and with Malagasy authorities at the project preparation stage. The decision was to liberalize
and introduce competition, without necessarily privatizing SOLIMA, although privatization
was kept as an option that might be exercised at a later unspecified date. There were
examples, particularly in South America, of countries where public companies competed
with private companies.
33.   However, by the time the credit became effective in 1994, the Bank was actively
discussing adjustment support (SAC 1) for an economic liberalization agenda to achieve
accelerated growth in Madagascar. Also, a private sector assessment4 done in 1993-94, had
led to preparation of a "Private sector development and capacity building project". The
strategy that emerged from this dialogue called for the Government to disengage from
productive activities better left to the private sector. Because the petroleum project was
ongoing, the Bank's macroeconomic and private sector teams saw it as a vehicle to
4     Report No. 14385-MAG, Madagascar New Horizons - Building a Strategy for Private-Sector,
Export-Led Growth, A private Sector Assessment. May 31, 1995.



- 9 -
implement divestiture in the petroleum sector. A new sectoral team that had taken over
supervision of the petroleum project agreed, and this led to a change in the Bank's position
concerning the future of SOLIMA. This change was reinforced by the fact that liberalization
was not producing tangible results. The change of Bank position slowed down progress on
the reform component, because the government was reluctant to accept full privatization. In
the meantime, disbursement conditions remained unfulfilled and blocked execution of the
infrastructure components.
34.   There were many political changes in the country between 1989, the time of project
identification, and 1998, when the credit closed. There were, in all eight different Ministers
of Energy and Mines, and seven different Directors of Energy. SOLIMA's management
team changed twice. These changes interfered with smooth project execution.
V.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
35.   Sustainability of the project achievements in terms of legal reform is uncertain at this
time, because the process is still ongoing. The Bank, however, has offered to support the
reform program during the first critical years after privatization. This would be done by
incorporating a number of activities, as described below, into the ongoing Energy Sector
Development Project (Cr. 2844-MAG), which presently includes activities in the power and
woodfuels sub-sectors. With this support, petroleum sub-sector reform should be
sustainable, since privatization already brings about a radical transformation.
36.   The following activities would be supported by the Energy Sector Development
Project: (a) technical assistance and training for the OMH; (b) an environmental audit of
major petroleum installations to identify cleanup works; and (c) completion of engineering
design and environmental impact assessment for new maritime petroleum terminals at
Toamasina and Mahajanga. Assistance to the OMH will include support in the following
tasks: discussion with private operators of a contingency plan to deal with oil spills and other
accidents; calculation of price caps for different products; adoption of technical standards;
creation of an information system on hydrocarbons; managing of the licensing system; and
combating anti-competitive practices.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.   Supervision was not very active between mid-1995 and mid-1997, while amendments
to the credit and project agreements to cancel refinery rehabilitation were being processed.
During this period, the dialogue on sector reform and privatization was carried out mostly
within the framework of SAC and private sector development discussions, and resulted, as
explained before, in a change of the Bank's position concerning SOLIMA sometime in 1996.
Once the Bank had obtained the Government's decision to include SOLIMA in the list of
enterprises to be privatized, decisive action was required to agree on a new and deeper
restructuring of the petroleum project. This was not done, maybe in part because of the
embarrassment of launching a new restructuring when the previous one was still being
processed. The amendment to the credit agreement approved by the Board in October 1996



- 10-
was insufficient. A deeper revision of project design was needed, reflecting the decision to
privatize. The revision also should have extended the credit's closing date.
Vl. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   Government performance was very good in the initial creation of a legal basis to
liberalize the sector, with the quick promulgation of Decree 565/95 and a large number of
complementary decrees following in rapid succession in 1995.
39.   Borrower performance was negatively affected by political instability. The many
government changes in the period from project identification to credit closing were a major
cause of delays, first in fulfilling the conditions of credit effectiveness, then also on fulfilling
the conditions for effectiveness of the amendment to the Credit Agreement that eliminated
Part B, the rehabilitation of the refinery. Preparation of physical components also
experienced many delays as a result of the changes in SOLIMA's management as a
consequence of political changes. Slow preparation was also the result of awareness by
SOLIMA that disbursement conditions would block execution anyway.
ViII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.   The project outcome is unsatisfactory. Although the project left a draft new legal
framework for a privatized sector, this was not the original aim of the project. The project
did not achieve what it set out to do, but contributed to lay the foundations for deep and
realistic reform. The Bank de facto unilaterally changed the project's scope in terms of
reform and pressed the government for more radical transformations. Consultants financed
by the project assisted in defining a strategy for privatization and in preparing the
transactions. In this sense, the project did contribute to opening and modernization in the
downstream petroleum sector.
IX. FUTURE OPERATION
41.   The new legal framework will be tested soon, when the new private owners take
possession of petroleum installations. Support for the OMH will contribute to a proper role
in terms of surveillance and regulation. Future operation of physical facilities is not
applicable, as none were built.
X.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   The main lesson that can be learned from this experience is that the Bank should have
either maintained the original objectives promoting the project with patience, or acted more
decisively to restructure the project once it changed its position on reform. Drawing the full
consequences of the decision to privatize would have entailed the cancellation of infrastruc-
ture components. The project could have instead supported investments for which public
financing was justified in support of the privatization process, for example, environmental
cleanup operations.



- 11 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                         l             El                El
Sector Policies                      El                               El                 [J
Financial Objectives                 El              I]               0E
Institutional Development                           F7                 El 0              0
Physical Objectives                    l              0                                  E 0
Poverty Reduction                      l             E                 E l
Gender Issues                          l             El                                 [l
Other Social Objectives              n               El                El
Environmental Objectives             n              aI                E                  E
Public Sector Management             nl             [l                 E                 Fl
Private Sector Development           El                                E                 El1
Other (specify)                      E                                 E                [ ]
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainabilit                Likely                  Unlikely                   Uncertain
(1)                       (1)                        (/)
El                        Ela



-12-
C. Bank Performance                     Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                      (/)                       (1)
Identification                       a:                       x 
Preparation Assistance              [                        Ix]
Appraisal                            a                                                 [ 1
Supervision                         [                        []
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(v')           (1)             (1)
Preparation                                   v              ixi
Implementation                                Cl              E 
Covenant Compliance                           E               El
Operation (Not applicable)                    C               El
Highly                               ~~~~~~~~~Highy
E. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(if)            (if)             (if)              (if)
Ol    al    E  



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose              Year of approval       Status
Preceding operations
1. Andekaleka       To assist the Govermnent      FY77               Closed
Hydropower Project  in constructing a dam, a
(Cr. 817-MAG)       power plant with two 29
MW generating units and a
138 KV transmission line
to Antananarivo.
2. Petroleum        To help the Government         FY81              Closed
Exploration         establish the legal and
Promotion Credit    fiscal framework for
(Cr. 101 6-MAG)     petroleum promotion and
exploration.
3. Tsimiroro Heavy   To finance the exploration    FY82              Closed
Oil Exploration     of Tsimiroro heavy oil
Project             field, and to promote a
(Cr. 1298-MAG)      second exploration
campaign.
4. Energy I Project    To finance the              FY87              Closed
(Cr. 1787-MAG)      rehabilitation of the power
system of JIRAMA and to
provide technical
assistance and training to
the Ministry of Energy on
energy planning and
household energy issues.
Following operations
1. Energy Sector    To ensure adequate supply     FY96              Ongoing
Development Project  of electricity and increase
(Cr. 2844-MAG)      access of peri-urban and
rural populations, to
increase economic and
management efficiency in
the power sub-sector, and
to promote greater energy
efficiency.



- 14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (FEPS)                                      September 1989
Preparation                                                October 1989 to May
1991
Appraisal                               June 1991          June 1991
Negotiations                            May 1993           May 1993
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)               June 30, 1993
Board Presentation                     June 1992           July 29, 1993
Signing                                                    August 25, 1993
Effectiveness                           November 1993       September 20, 1994
Project Completion                      June 30, 1998      June 30, 1998
Credit Closing                          December 31, 1998   December 31, 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
__ - - -__.
FY94      FY95    FY96          FY97      FY98        FY99
Appraisal         2.5       11.6       25.0       37.5       47.6       51.9
Estimate
Actual             0        1.19       1.56       2.01       2.90       4.64
Actual as % of     0        10.26      6.24       5.36       6.09       8.94
Estimate
Date of Final   May 21, 1999
Disbursement



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation
Indicators in President's    Estimated             Actual
Report
1. Appropriate pricing                             New legal framework
policies. Adoption of                               introduces national price-
measures for regional price                         caps applicable only within
differentiation.                                    15 km of regional depots.
Open access system to key                           Included in new legal
infrastructure facilities                          framework.
established.
Private sector owns and                             Privatization process
operates petroleum                                  ongoing at time of credit
distribution stations.                              closing.
Refinery is separated from                          Separated on paper in
SOLIMA and established as                          preparation for sale.
a joint-stock company.
SOLIMA is restructured and                         Done in paper in
separate companies are                              preparation for sale.
established as joint-stock
companies.
Shares of the refinery and of                       Ongoing at time of credit
other companies born out of                         closing.
the restructuring of
SOLIMA are offered to the
private sector.
2. Days of availability of the  310 days per year.  330 days in 1998
refinery (including the vis-                        (no vis-breaker).
breaker):
Volume of Crude Oil       12,000 bpd.               10,500 bpd (1998).
refined.
3. Reserves of refined   Minimum of 1 week of       7 days average during 1998.
products stored in        consumption.
Antananarivo.
LPG consumption.          1995: 3,400 tons.         4,370 tons in 1998.
2000: 6,000 tons.



- 16-
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                 Purpose              Status               Impact
1. Feasibility of     Define refinery         Done.          None.
refinery rehabilitation    rehabilitation and show
by KBC.               economic justification.
2. Feasibility of     Obtain a second opinion on  Done.       Showed rehabilitation was not
refinery rehabilitation    refinery rehabilitation.           economically feasible.
by Cuneo Associati.                                           Rehabilitation later cancelled.
3. Assistance for     Restructure, strengthen  Done.          Defined privatization strategy.
petroleum sector      SOLIMA; create a
reform, by Price      regulatory agency; define               Defined organization and
Waterhouse.           free access system.                     functions of regulatory agency.
Produced draft rules for free
access system.
4. Feasibility of     Propose a solution to    Done.          Recommended solution later
relocating the petroleum  replace inadequate existing         discarded due to environmental
terminal at Toamasima   terminal.                            impact.
by BCEOM.
5. Engineering services  Engineering for ports,  Ongoing for    Uncertain.
by TECHNIP.           storage rehabilitation.  port
engineering.
6. Review and         Adapt and complete legal   Done.        New law adopted by National
completion of legal   framework in view of                    Assembly in March 1999.
framework by HBC.    decision to privatize                    Complementary regulations
SOLIMA.                                approved by Government.
L 



- 17 -
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)             Actual (US$M)
(including physical and
price contingencies)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign      Total
Item                Costs     Costs               Costs     Costs
1. Liberalization and  0.40       5.4      5.8      N.A.       1.306      1.306
Privafization
2. Infrastructure       2.8      35.0      37.8     0.456      2.142     2.598
Improvements
3. Project Preparation   -        2.6      2.6      0.950      1.192     2.142
and Coordination
TOTAL COST             3.9      51.4      55.3     1.406      4.640      6.046
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)            Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign     Total
Source               Costs     Costs              Costs      Costs
IDA                     0.5       51.4     51.9      N.A.      4.319      4.319
SOLIMA                  1.8        -        1.8     1.406                 1.406 -
Government              1.6        -        1.6
Private Sector          1.2       22.7     23.9
(Phase II)                              IlI_I                     _    I _   _
1 .1     74.1  1    79.2  1            .
TOTAL              J 5.1   j74.1          79.2__J  1.406      4.319   |  5.725



- 18-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original   Revised              Description of                 Comments
type    Status  fulfillment fulfillment         Covenant
date      date                                                             l
DCA      3.01 (c)     3         C    8/17/84               The Borrower and SOLIMA to
(i)                                               enter a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to: (A) re-lend to
SOLIMA a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Categories (2)(a) & (b), (3) and
(4) ; and (B) make available to
SOLIMA, on a grant basis, the
portion of the Credit allocated to
Category 2(c).
DCA      3.01 (c)     3       N.A.                         When SOLIMA subsidiary         Not applicable after
(ii)                                              established, Loan Agreement to   cancellation of Part B.
be amended with respect to the
portion of the proceeds allocated
for part B of the Project and to be
assigned to SOLIMA Subsidiary
upon its legal establishment.
DCA      3.04         10      N.A.                         The Borrower shall take all steps  Not applicable after
necessary to ensure that, upon  cancellation of Part B.
completion of Part 1B (a) of the
Project, all assets and liabilities
relating thereto shall have been
transferred to SOLIMA
Subsidiary.
DCA      4.01 (b)     01        C                          Provide to the Association, as
(ii)                                              soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested.
DCA      4.02         2        CP                          The Borrower shall: (a) not later  A new pricing system will be
than November 30, 1993, and    introduced by new legal
thereafter not later than     framework simultaneously
September 30 of each year, until  with privatization of
the completion of the Project,    SOLIMA.
exchange views with the
Association with regard to
petroleum products prices and
taxes; and (b) establish and
maintain said prices and taxes,
taking into account the results of
such exchange of views.
DCA      2.06          5       NA                           SOLIMA to ensure that, upon   Not applicable after
completion of Part B (a) of the    cancellation of Part B.
Project, the facilities included in
part B (a) of the Project and all
assets and liabilities relating
thereto shall have been transferred
to SOLIMA Subsidiary.



- 19-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (Page 2)
DCA      2.07         3        NA                          SOLIMA to enter into a        Not applicable because of
convention with SEPT (the     privatization.
SOLIMA-SEPT Convention), for
the purposes of defining the
modalities of execution of works
and use by all distributors of
petroleum products with respect
to the petroleum
loading/unloading facility at
Toamasina.
DCA      3.01 (b)     5        NA                          SOLIMA shall follow competitive No longer applicable in view
bidding procedures acceptable to  of upcoming privatization.
the Association in the
procurement of crude oil and shall
furnish the association, for its
review, bidding documents
related thereto; in addition,
SOLIMA shall furnish to the
Association a copy of bid
evaluation reports.
DCA      3.03         5         C                          SOLIMA to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make
provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
PA      4.01 (b)      I        C                          SOLIMA to have its Special
(i)                                               Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable
to the Association.
PA      4.01 (b)      I       NA                          SOLIMA to furnish to the
(ii)                                              Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each year,
(A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors.
PA      4.01 (d)      I       NA                          SOLIMA to cause SOLIMA         Not applicable after
(ii)                                              Subsidiary to furnish to the  cancellation of Part B.
Association as soon as possible,
but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year
as so audited, and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors.



- 20 -
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (Page 3)
PA      4.02 (a)      2         C                           Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, SOLIMA and
SOLIMA Subsidiary shall not,
respectively, incur any debt unless
net revenues are, for fiscal year
1995, at least 1.0 times and,
thereafter, 1.5 times the estimated
debt service requirements of
SOLIMA and SOLIMA
Subsidiary in such year.
PA      4.03          2         C                           Until the completion of the    SOLIMA is in compliance.
Project, SOLIMA and SOLIMA   Covenant not applicable tc
Subsidiary, respectively, shall not, "SOLIMA Subsidiary" in
commit themselves to any new   view of project restructuring.
investment, (other than the
investments agreed upon between
SOLIMA, SOLIMA Subsidiary
and the Association) which would
exceed the equivalent of two
million dollars ($2,000,000).
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from   8. = Indigenous people
beneficiaries                                  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds          10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                            11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing        allocation
agency                                        12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. =  Environmental covenants                               regulatorylinstitutional action
7. =  Involuntary resettlement                       13. = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 21 -
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                Actual
Project Cycle           Weeks       USS       Weeks        US$
(thousands)           (thousands)
Preparation to Appraisal                                28.90       49.80
Appraisal to Board                                      95.50      263.80
Negotiations through Board                              4.80        12.80
Approval
Supervision                       110.00    288.56      63.70      329.81
Completion                        8.00       14.75      10.00       26.39
TOTAL                 118.00     303.31    202.90      682.60



- 22 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number               Specialized    Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of     Month/     Of      Days in    Staff Skills  tation       ment      Types of
Project Cycle   Year    Persons    Field    Represented    Status     Objectives    Problems
Through            4/90      2         15        E, PS          _           _
Appraisal         11/90      3         15      E, FA, ES
Appraisal
through Board      6/91      6         15       SE, FA,E E                  _          _
Approval
Supervision       12/94      1         10          E            U           U         PM
4/95      1         7           E            U           U         PM
7/95      1         10          E            U           U         PM
8/95      2         12         E, E          U           U         PM
11/96     2         5          E, PE         U           U         PM
7/97      1         14          E            S           S
10/97     2         8         PE, FA         U           U         PM
6/98      2        27         PE, SE         U           U       PM, P
10/98     2         10        PE, SE         U           U        PM, P
Completion         4/99      1         7           PE           U           U        PM, P
C  = Consultant
PM  = Project Management                                   E  = Economist
P   = Procurement                                          ES = Energy Specialist
S   = Satisfactory                                         FA = Financial Analyst
IJ  = Unsatisfactory                                       PE = Principal Economist
PS = Petroleum Specialist
SE = Senior Economist



- 23 -
PART III: APPENDICES
A. AIDE MEMOIRE
(Mission de cl6ture du projet, du 20 au 30 avril 1999)
REPUBLIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
PROJET DE REFORME DU SECTEUR PETROLIER
(Credit No. 2538-MAG)
1.          Une mission de la Banque Mondiale composee de M. Angel Baide, Chef de
Projet, a sejoumr  a Madagascar du 19 au 30 avril 1999 pour faire conjointement avec le
Ministere de 1'energie et des mines (MEM) et la SOLIMA une evaluation de la maniere dont
le projet de Reforme du secteur petrolier a ete execute, et de la mesure dans laquelle le projet
a atteint ses objectifs de d6veloppement. Pendant la mission, la Banque a distribue un projet
de Rapport de ClOture pour examen par la partie malgache, et a recu des commentaires au
cours d'une reunion a la fin de la mission. La Banque a egalement recu du Coordonnateur du
projet a la SOLIMA un premier jet du rapport d'evaluation du projet par l'Emprunteur, lequel
doit etre soumis a la Banque pour inclusion comme une annexe dans le Rapport de Cloture
final. La mission tient a remercier le MEM et la SOLIMA pour leur collaboration.
2.          Le projet avait pour objectifs: (a) d'ouvrir le secteur petrolier aval a la
participation du secteur prive et de creer un cadre legal approprie pour un environnement
concurrentiel; (b) d'apporter un appui aux investissements d'infrastructure necessaires pour
accroitre l'efficacite des operations et pour attirer des operateurs et des investisseurs prives;
et (c) de developper la capacite institutionnelle pour une regulation efficace du secteur
petrolier. Le Credit a ete cloture le 31 decembre 1998. Le montant initial du credit,
approuve par le Conseil d'administration de la Banque mondiale le 29 juillet 1993, etait de
36,7 millions de DTS, equivalent a 52 millions de dollars des 6tats unis. Un amendement des
Accords de Credit et de Projet a ete approuve par la Banque mondiale le 18 octobre 1996,
eliminant la rehabilitation de la raffinerie et annulant 9,4 millions de DTS du credit. Le
projet a decaisse au total seulement 3,3 millions de DTS, soit 9 pour cent du montant du
credit initial.
3.          Le projet a partiellement atteint ses objectifs de reforme et de liberalisation du
secteur p6trolier aval, par 'elaboration des textes definissant le nouveau cadre legal et
reglementaire, comprenant le d6cret de creation d'une agence de surveillance et de regulation,



- 24 -
et par la preparation d'une strategie de privatisation de la SOLIMA. Le Decret 150-98,
creant l'Office Malgache des Hydrocarbures (OMH) a ete emis par le Gouvemement en
fevrier 1998. La Loi portant reforme du secteur (Loi N° 99-010) a ete adoptee par
I'Assemblee Nationale au mois de mars 1999, apres la cloture du credit. Le decret
d'application de la Loi a ete adopte par le Conseil du Gouvernement en avril 1999
(Decret N° 99-279). Pendant la mission, le Gouvernement a nomme le Directeur Gn&ral de
l'OMH, qui est actuellement en train de mettre en place son equipe technique. La
privatisation de la SOLIMA est en cours, suivant, avec peu de modifications, la strategie de
base elaboree dans le cadre du projet. (Le Conseiller Financier pour la privatisation, ainsi
que les autres services de consultants necessaires sont finances par le Projet d'Appui
Technique au Developpement du Secteur Prive, Credit 2956 MAG.). L'objectif de
d6velopper la capacite pour la surveillance et r6gulation du secteur n'a pu etre realise du fait
du retard pour la mise en place de I'OMH.
4.          Le projet n'a pas r6alise non plus son objectif d'appui aux investissements
d'infrastructure, sauf pour l'achat de 47.000 bouteilles A gaz pour la distribution de GPL. La
rehabilitation de la raffinerie a e  eliminee moyennant l'amendement aux Accords de credit
et de Projet approuve par la Banque mondiale en octobre 1996. Les autres composantes
n'ont pu 8tre executees en cons6quence, d'une part, du retard considerable dans la mise en
oeuvre de la composante reforme institutionnelle, et d'autre part, de la decision du
Gouvemement de privatiser la SOLIMA. En effet les decaissements pour les composantes
infrastructure 6taient conditionnes A I'avancement de la composante r6forme qui a souffert
des forts delais; et la decision de privatisation a enleve la justification du financement avec
des fonds publics d'installations destinees a etre cedees a des operateurs prives. La
composante reforme telle que presentee dans l'Accord de credit n'envisageait pas la
privatisation, mais la restructuration et le renforcement de la SOLIMA, en parallele avec
l'ouverture du secteur a des op6rateurs prives.
5.          Pour aider dans les discussions sur le projet, la SOLIMA avait prepare une
chronologie detaillee des etapes du projet depuis la mission d'identification au debut de
1989, jusqu'A la cloture du credit A la fin de 1998. Cette chronologie a ete tres utile pour
l'analyse de la conception du projet et de son evolution. La mission a pu egalement consulter
dans les archives de la Direction de realisation de projets de la SOLIMA les divers rapports
de consultants 6labor6s pendant l'etape de preparation du projet, ayant servi A la definition
des composantes infrastructure, ainsi que les divers rapports et dossiers produits pendant la
periode d'ex6cution du projet.
6.          Les principaux commentaires de nature generale de la partie malgache sur le
projet sont resumes ci-apres. La description detaillee des activites realisees dans le cadre de
chacune des composantes se trouve dans les projets de rapport de cloture, tant de la Banque
mondiale que de l'Emprunteur, discutes pendant la mission. La composante reforme a
souffert du fait que l'on n'a pu s'accorder sur une strategie bien definie et voulue par toutes
les parties. Le MEM a souligne A ce sujet l'impact des discontinuites dans les equipes de
projet, surtout du cote malgache, mais egalement du cote de la Banque mondiale, qui ont
rendu difficile le maintien d'un accord clair et stable sur la definition du programme de



- 25 -
reforme. 11 y a eu, entre l'identification du projet en 1989 et l'approbation du projet par la
Banque mondiale en juillet 1993, trois differents Ministres de 1'6nergie et des mines.
L'approbation du projet par la Banque mondiale a coincide avec un changement de
gouvemement a Madagascar, ce qui a entrame des changements dans les equipes qui avaient
6t6 impliquees dans la conception et preparation du projet. Le Chef de projet A la Banque
mondiale a egalement change apres I'approbation du projet. Entre l'approbation du projet et
la date de cloture du credit, cinq autres Ministres de l'energie et des mines se sont succedes a
la tete du MEM.
7.           Le MEM a insiste qu'il n'y avait pas eu une opposition systematique du
gouvernement A la privatisation, mais que I'Accord de Credit prevoyait le renforcement et
restructuration prealables de la SOLIMA. La restructuration comprenait la filialisation par
activites, avec entre autres, l'objectif de separer l'activite raffinage pour eliminer la
subvention du processing par la distribution. C'est la Banque mondiale qui a propose, juste
apres la mise en vigueur du credit, de passer directement a la privatisation. Ce changement
d'approche a entrain6 beaucoup de retards. Le MEM a exprime l'opinion que le processus
qui s'est ensuivi pour la privatisation de la SOLIMA a e  domine par les equipes macro-
dconomiques et de privatisation, et que les equipes sectorielles n'ont pas eu le temps
necessaire pour mener une reflexion en profondeur sur la reforme du secteur.
8.           Pour la SOLIMA, ce projet etait sa premiere experience de travail avec la
Banque mondiale. La SOLIMA avec l'appui de l'Ingenieur Conseil finance par le projet, a
prepare un bon nombre de dossiers d'appels d'offres pour la foumiture de matdriels et pour
l'execution de travaux de rehabilitation et de construction de nouvelles installations. Ces
dossiers n'ont pu etre utilises pour les raisons dejA exposees. La SOLIMA pense que les
termes de refdrence de l'Ingenieur Conseil ont et6 trop dtendus. La SOLIMA elle meme a
prepar6 une bonne partie des specifications techniques utilisees par l'Ingenieur dans les
dossiers d'appels d'offres qu'il devait preparer. Les termes de reference auraient dui se
limiter aux travaux specialises ne pouvant pas etre realises par la SOLIMA.
9.           Le probleme important du remplacement du terminal petrolier de Toamasina
reste encore A resoudre. Une etude de simulation complete par l'Ingenieur Conseil vers la
fin du projet indique que le site en face de la raffinerie n'est pas utilisable du fait des
conditions meteorologiques peu favorables. L'une des solutions alternatives proposees par
l'Ingenieur est de construire les ouvrages dans un endroit mieux abrite, par exemple sur le
site qui avait e  propose initialement pres du grand recif. Ce site avait ete rejete a cause des
risques pour 1'environnement marin. Cependant, ces risques seraient fortement reduits si la
raffinerie venait A etre cl6turee suite A sa privatisation, de maniere que le terminal n'ait pas
besoin de manipuler du petrole brut.



- 26 -
B. Borrower's Contribution
REPUBLIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
PROJET DE REtFORME DU SECTEUR PETROLIER
(Credit No. 2538-MAG)
Rapport de fin d'execution
I.   Introduction
1.          Le present document constitue le rapport de fin d'execution du Projet de
RPfornne du Secteur Petrolier dont l'Accord de Credit entre la Republique de Madagascar et
l'Association Internationale de Developpement (IDA) d'une part et d'autre part I'Accord de
Projet entre l'Association Internationale de Developpement et la Solitany Malagasy ont et6
signes le 25 aofit 1993. Initialement, le montant du Credit s'est eleve a SDR 37.600.000,
mais apres la remise en question de l'opportunite de la rehabilitation de la Raffinerie, le
Credit a &6 ramene a. SDR 27.325.000 par l'Amendement en date du 30 janvier 1997. Ce
rapport a ete etabli conjointement par Madame RANAIVOSON Hanjasoa Suzie du Ministere
de l'Energie et des Mines et de M. RATSIMIALA RAMONTA Manitrisa de la SOLIMA.
II.   Rerospective
2.          La politique petroliere du Gouvemement de Madagascar, est basee sur les
principes suivants: (i) la politique energetique est etablie dans le cadre global de la politique
macro-economique du pays et met l'accent sur la necessite d'une economie ouverte oui la
liberalisation de prix, la concurrence entre les acteurs du secteur prive joueront un r6le
essentiel; (ii) etant donne les contraintes qui pesent sur les ressources publiques, le secteur
prive aura un r6le determinant sur 1'ensemble du secteur petrolier; (iii) pour promouvoir
]'efficacite dans l'allocation des ressources, les prix des produits petroliers refleteront leur
cout economique; et (iv) une politique de prix et d'autres mesures seront necessaires pour la
promotion de l'efficacite, des 6conomies d'energie et de la protection de 1Penvironnement.
3.          En accord avec cette politique sectorielle, le Gouvernement de Madagascar,
represente par le Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines, conjointement avec la Solitany
Malagasy (SOLIMA), s'est propose d'executer un programme, avec I'appui de l'Association
Internationale de Developpement (IDA), pour la restructuration et la privatisation du secteur
petrolier ainsi que la mise en place d'un environnement adequat pour la participation du



- 27-
secteur prive.
III.   Objectifs du projet et description du projet
4.           Les objectifs du Projet ont et6: (i) d'ouvrir le secteur petrolier a la participation
du secteur prive et de creer un cadre propice a un environnement concurrentiel; (ii) d'apporter
un appui aux investissements d'infrastructure de base necessaires pour accroitre l'efficacite
des operations et attirer des exploitants et investissements prives; et
(iii) de developper la capacite institutionnelle pour superviser et contr6ler le secteur petrolier
de maniere efficace.
5.           En vue d'atteindre lesdits objectifs, le Projet comprenait les Parties suivantes:
Parties A: Libiralisation etAppui a la Privatisation du Secteur Pitrolier
(a) Restructuration de la SOLIMA, par constitution de societes par actions et participation
eventuelle du secteur prive a leur capital, la premiere etape etant l'etablissement de la
filiale de la SOLIMA pour la raffinerie de Toamasina, en tant qu'entit6 juridique distincte
fonctionnant selon les regles commerciales pertinentes de l'Emprunteur.
(b) Mise en place et fonctionnement d'un systeme, dote de regles claires et transparentes,
pernettant a tous les exploitants d'acceder aux infrastructures cles pour le chargement,
l'entreposage et le transport des produits petroliers, et execution d'un programme de
formation y afferent.
(c) Mise en place et fonctionnement d'un organisme national de supervision et de contr6le
pour assurer le libre jeu de la concurrence et de bon fonctionnement du secteur petrolier
et 1f6tablissement de normnes minima techniques, de securite et de protection de
l'environnement applicables a tous les exploitants, et execution d'un programme de
formation y afferent.
Parties B: Raffinerie de la SOLIMA
(a) Execution de la premiere phase de la rehabilitation de la raffinerie de la SOLIMA par la
remise en service du complexe de viscoreduction, la rehabilitation du systeme electrique
et l'amelioration de 1'efficacite et de la fiabilit6 globale de ses operations, y compris des
prestations de service d'ingenierie.
(b) Appui a la filiale de la SOLIMA pour la gestion de ses operations.
Parties C: Infrastructure pour l'Entreposage et le Transport d'Hydrocarbures
Accroissement de 1'efficacit6 et de la fiabilite de I'approvisionnement en hydrocarbures au
moyen des operations suivantes:



- 28 -
(a) Acquisition d'environ 18 wagons-citernes et autre petit materiel.
(b) Reparation des citernes de stockage existantes pour le petrole brut et les produits
petroliers a Toamasina.
(c) Remplacement des pipelines du port de Toamasina aux installations d'entreposage.
(d) Amelioration des installations de d6chargement des hydrocarbures, y compris la
construction d'un ponton a Mahajanga et construction d'un pipeline a Manakara. Et
(e) Realisation d'etudes pour identifier des methodes plus rapides et plus sOres de
dechargement des produits petroliers et acquisition de logiciels pour ameliorer la
planification du transport et de la distribution.
Partie D: Installation de Chargement I Dechargement du Peitrole ta Toamasina
Construction d'une installation de chargement / dechargement du petrole au port de
Toamasina, comprenant un duc d'albe d'amarrage et les pipelines y aff6rents.
Partie E: Programme de Promotion du Gaz de P6trole Liquefie (GPL)
Execution d'un programme de promotion pour la vente de gaz butane (GPL) comme source
energetique pour la cuisson des aliments en milieu urbain, y compris I'achat de bouteilles, la
construction de capacite de stockage additionnel, la r6habilitation des usines de remplissage
existantes et I'acquisition d'equipement de transport.
IV.   Execution du projet
6.          La Direction de l'Energie (MEM) a ete chargee de l'administration de
l'ensemble du projet: a cette fin, et pour executer la partie A du projet, le Ministre de
l'Energie et des Mines a nomme un Coordonnateur, assiste par des Consultants.
7.          Aux fins de l'execution des Parties B, C, D et E du projet, la SOLIMA a
employe a tout moment une equipe d'Experts, parmi le personnel de la SOLIMA, compos6e
d'un Directeur de Projet, d'un Ingenieur Mecanicien et d'un Agent Comptable, assist6e par un
Consultant en Ingenierie.
V.   Evaluation de l'execution technique et financiere
8.          La mise en vigueur du Credit initial a dte prononcee le 20 septembre 1994,
apres l'annulation des conditions sur le recrutement du Consultant en Ing6nierie charge
d'assister la SOLIMA et l'etablissement des documents d'appels d'offres pour les marches
des travaux vises a la partie B(a) du projet. Les Amendements aux Accords de Credit et de
Projets, signes le 30 janvier 1997, ont e mis en vigueur le 7 octobre 1997, apres une



-29 -
demande de prorogation effectuee en juin 1997.
PARTIE A : LIBERALISATION ET APPUI A LA PRIVATISATION DU SECTEUR PETROLIER
9.          L'appel d'offres relatif A la partie A du projet A savoir: la restructuration de la
SOLIMA, la mise en place et fonctionnement d'un systeme dote de regles claires et
transparentes permettant A tous les operateurs d'acceder aux infrastructures cles et la mise en
place et fonctionnement d'un organisme national de supervision et de controle a ete lance en
septembre 1994 mais le seul soumissionnaire retenu a d6sist6 au moment de la n6gociation.
10.         Etant donn6 l'engagement du Gouvemement de lib6raliser l'importation des
produits petroliers raffines avant la fin d'aouat 1995, une nouvelle consultation n'etait plus
possible plus particulierement pour la formulation d'un cadre legal et reglementaire. De ce
fait, un consultant individuel appuye par un membre du personnel de la Banque Mondiale en
collaboration avec le Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines, la SOLIMA et le Secretariat
Technique de l'Ajustement ont elabore le Decret N° 95-565 portant liberalisation du marche
petrolier qui regroupe les principes de la politique sectorielle actuelle.
11.         Le Cabinet Price Waterhouse a ete charge d'assister le Ministere de l'Energie
et des Mines pour l'execution de la partie A du projet selon le contrat signe le 26 novembre
1996 pour un montant de 6.410.000 FRF. Et ce, suite A la relance de la consultation en
fevrier 1996.
12.         Concernant la restructuration de la SOLIMA, l'objectif est de creer plusieurs
societes anonymes pour remplacer la Societe d'Etat existante. A cette epoque, il etait dejA
prevu que les actions issues de la scission de la SOLIMA seraient vendues A des operateurs
prives. Mais suite A la decision de proceder immediatement a la privatisation des activit6s
exercees par la SOLIMA, la restructuration proprement dite n'a pas pu etre execut6e.
N6anmoins, les rapports produits par le Cabinet Price ont servi de base A l'elaboration du
Dossier d'Appel d'Offres sur la privatisation de la SOLIMA.
13.         L'6tude sur la mise en place et fonctionnement d'un organe de supervision et
de contr6le a abouti a I'adoption du Decret N° 98-150 portant cr6ation de l'Office Malgache
des Hydrocarbures.
14.         Le cadre legal de base a et mis en vigueur depuis 1999, A savoir l'Ordonnance
N° 93/002 du 8 janvier 1993 et le Decret N° 95-565 du 29 aofit 1995 ayant liberalise le
secteur et defini les grandes lignes de sa nouvelle structure. Cependant, il a et constate que
ce cadre general a besoin d'etre complete par un nombre de textes reglementaires et
contractuels dont quelques un devaient etre disponibles prealablement A la privatisation. En
juillet 1998, le Ministere de l'Energie a d6cide de recruter le Cabinet Houston International
pour faire un examen detaille du cadre legal existant afin d'identifier les eventuels
complements ou modifications A apporter et pour rediger les textes necessaires. Le montant
de ce contrat s'61&ve A 89.680 USD en devises et 12.069.728 FMG en monnaie locale.



- 30 -
15.         Une mission suppl6mentaire d'un montant de 70.520 USD et 8.229.360 FMG
a e effectuee par le Cabinet Houston International et qui a pour objet de presenter le projet
final du cadre legal et de lancer des travaux d'operationalisation de ce cadre. Les resultats de
ces etudes ont abouti a la promulgation de la Loi N° 99-010 du 17 avril 1999 regissant les
activit6s du secteur petrolier aval et le Decret N° 99-279 du 21 Avril 1999 portant application
de la loi.
PARTIE B: RAFFINERIE DE LA SOLIMA
16.         Apres le passage du cyclone Geralda en fevrier 1994, la Raffinerie a et
gravement endommagee, entrainant un arret de plus de six mois pour la reparation. Entre
temps, une mission de Consultants (Cuneo), en juin 1994, a effectue une etude de rentabilite
de la raffinerie, entrainant la remise en question de l'opportunite de la poursuite des travaux
de rehabilitation et aboutissant a la restructuration du Credit par l'annulation d'un montant de
l'ordre de US$13.000.000.
PARTIE C : INFRASTRUCTURE POUR L'ENTREPOSAGE ET LE TRANSPORT DES
HYDROCARBURES
17.         Pour l'ex6cution des parties C, D et E, la SOLIMA a et assistee par
TECHNIP (France) - Consultant en Ingenierie, selon le contrat conclu le 29 decembre 1995
pour un montant de FRF 5.454.388 pour la partie en devises et de FMG 450.200.000 pour la
partie en monnaie locale. Compte tenu de l1'volution du projet, ce contrat a ete revise par un
amendement en date du 6 novembre 1998 et les montants ont ete ramenes a FRF 3.370.234
pour la partie en devises et FMG 45.000.000 pour la partie en monnaie locale. Le montant
total des prestations et des depenses remboursables s'eleve a US$554.397,18 au 31 decembre
1998.
18.         Le dossier d'appel d'offres, prepare par l'equipe de la SOLIMA, a ete deja
.tabli en decembre 1997 pour 1'acquisition d'environ 18 wagons-citernes, une composante de
cette partie, mais garde en instance au vu de la situation de la Societe Nationale de chemin
de fer. De meme le dossier d'appel d'offres pour la reparation des citernes de stockage
existantes pour le petrole brut et les produits petroliers a Toamasina, etabli en juin 1998 par
1'6quipe de la SOLIMA 6galement, n'a pas et6 lanc6 par suite de l'imminence de la
privatisation. Quant au remplacement des pipelines du port de Toamasina aux installations
d'entreposage, les etudes seront fonction du nouveau site choisi pour le terminal petrolier qui
dependra des resultats des etudes maritimes.
19.         Concernant l'amelioration des installations de dechargement des
hydrocarbures a Mahajanga, les etudes hydrographiques complementaires ont ete combin6es
avec celles du terminal de Toamasina. Apres une mission effectu&e par 1'6quipe
SOLIMA/TECHNIP a Manakara, il en est ressorti la decision de faire une etude approfondie
pour trouver une solution adaptee aux problemes d'amarrage des tankers, ainsi que le
systeme de dechargement.



- 31 -
20.         II a ete prevu que la realisation d'etudes pour identifier des methodes plus
rapides et plus sfires de dechargement des produits petroliers ne se fera qu'apres 1'adoption
du site et du type d'ouvrages A construire dans les ports de Toamasina et Mahajanga, aussi a
la cl6ture du projet aucune suite n'a e donnre, de meme pour 1' acquisition de logiciels pour
ameliorer la planification du transport et de la distribution.
PARTIE D: INSTALLATION DE CHARGEMENT / DECHARGEMENT DU PETROLE A
TOAMASINA
ETUDES MARITIMES
21.         Un certain nombre de sites ont ete envisages dans une etude faite par BCEOM
en juillet 1992. Apres la mission sur site effectuee par I'equipe SOLIMA/TECHNIP en avri'
1996, la solution retenue est la construction d'un ouvrage fixe dans la baie d'Ivondro situ6e
en face de la Raffinerie et en mer ouverte. L'endroit est facile d'acces et presente l'espace
necessaire A la manmuvre des petroliers ainsi qu'une hauteur d'eau largement suffisante.
Cependant, des etudes compl6mentaires ont e necessaires pour confirmer les releves
bathymetriques indiques sur les cartes marines disponibles, determiner les donnees
environnementales (vents, houles et courant) et effectuer une campagne de reconnaissance
geotechnique aux endroits prevus de la localisation des sites.
22.         Pour chacune des series des campagnes de mesures (Bathymetriques,
Meteorologiques et Geotechniques), TECHNIP a etabli les specifications detaillees des
donnees et informations requises ainsi que les dossiers d'appels d'offres. En juillet 1996,
TECHNIP a lance les appels d'offres pour la campagne de mesures bathymetrique et la
campagne de determination des donnees environnementales, sans l'avis de non objection de
la Banque mondiale, ni l'avis de SOLIMA, aupres d'entreprises et organismes reconnus
competents et experimentes. Finalement, ces deux appels d'offres ont e relances en janvier
1997 en suivant la procedure normale.
23.         Le marche de la Campagne de mesures bathym6triques a ete attribu6 A la
Societe CREOCEAN - France et signe le 8 octobre 1997 pour un montant de FRF 880.000.
Les campagnes de mesures sur les sites de Toamasina et Mahajanga ont et effectuees en
decembre 1997. Les resultats de ces mesures sont consignes dans le Rapport preliminaire,
remis en fevrier 1998 A la SOLIMA et A TECHNIP, tandis que le Rapport final a ete recu en
mars 1998. La Societe METEOMER- France a realise les Campagnes de Determination de
donnees environnementales sur les deux sites en mars / avril 1998 pour la periode d'ete et en
juillet / aofit 1998 pour la periode d'hiver, selon le contrat sign6 le 20 janvier 1998 pour un
montant de FRF 1.079.400. Le rapport final de ces campagnes a ete recu en octobre 1998.
24.         Apres la reception des rapports sur les campagnes de mesures effectuees par
CREOCEAN et METEOMER, TECHNIP a procede A l'analyse detaillee de I'amarrage des
petroliers A Toamasina et Mahajanga. I1 en ressort que le terminal pr6vu A Mahajanga
permettra de r6pondre aux besoins de la Region, alors que celui de Toamasina depasse le
seuil de saturation. De ce fait, pour resoudre le probleme de saturation, TECHNIP a propose



- 32 -
les recommandations suivantes: (a) separation des postes de chargement et de dechargement,
A savoir la construction d'un poste en mer ouverte uniquement pour les grands navires, et
amenagement d'un autre poste abrite pour les caboteurs; (b) construction de l'ouvrage tel
que prevu sur un site mieux abrite (pres du grand recif).
25.         Entre temps, la SOLIMA a pr6pare le Dossier d'appels d'offres, avec
I'assistance de TECHNIP, pour la Campagne de reconnaissance geotechnique. L'appel
d'offres a ete lance le 3 aofit 1998 pour etre recu le 29 septembre 1998, mais par faute de
concurrence il a ete relanc6 le 16 novembre 1998. Comme la date de cl6ture du projet a ete
maintenue au 31 decembre 1998, 1'evaluation des offres re,ue le 12 janvier 1999 n'a pas ete
realisee. De meme, une demande de proposition pour l'dtablissement du dossier d'appels
d'offres pour la campagne d'6tude d'impact environnemental a et6 transmise a la Banque
mondiale en aofit 1998.
ETUDES TECHNIQUES
26.         Les bases de conception des structures marines, ainsi que celles des conduites
sous-marines ont 6t6 e1aborees par TECHNIP. Apres 1'etablissement d'un avant projet, il ne
reste plus que la finalisation des specifications techniques des appontements et des divers
6quipements, en integrant les resultats des etudes maritimes effectuees, en vue de
l1'tablissement du dossier d'appels d'offres pour la construction des ouvrages. Comme il a
ete prevu de faire une pres6lection pour le choix des entreprises de construction, l'appel
d'offres a ete lance le 16 octobre 1998. Neuf (9) offres, re,ues le 16 decembre 1998, sont
toutes acceptables, toutefois une evaluation approfondie sera necessaire.
PARTIE E: PROGRAMME DE PROMOTION DU GAZ DE PETROLE LIQUEFIE
27.          Concemant l'achat de bouteilles A gaz, A la suite de I'appel d'offres lance en
janvier 1997, les marches de fournitures ont ete attribues respectivement: (a) A M.G.
International (France) - 10.000 bouteilles de 3 kg dont le cofit total, y compris les frais
financiers, est de US$117.628,85 pour un montant du marche de FRF 700.000;
(b) A Services & Trading International (Belgique) - 35.000 bouteilles de 13 kg dont le cofit
total, y compris les frais financiers et les frais d'inspection, est de US$895.300,79 pour un
montant du marche de US$876.750; et (c) Ocean Trade C° (Madagascar) - 1.966 bouteilles
de 39 kg dont le cofit total est de US$117.399,55 pour un montant du marche de
US$117.370,20. Ces bouteilles ont ete recues pendant les mois de juin etjuillet 1998.
28.          Le dossier d'appels d'offres pour la construction de deux spheres de stockage
d'une capacite de 500 tonnes chacune a ete dejA etabli et transmis A la Banque en avril 1998,
ainsi que celui de l'acquisition de deux (2) camions citemes de 5 tonnes. Quant A la
rehabilitation des usines de remplissage existantes, les besoins en mat6riel et equipement ont
ete identifies et indiques dans le document des bases de conception du projet.



- 33 -
VI. RECOMMANDATIONS / CONCLUSIONS
29.         En reduisant les delais des differentes etapes dans la procedure de passation de
marches des consultants, le recrutement du Consultant en Ingenierie devrait se faire au
minimum en 90 jours. Comme l'etablissement des documents d'appels d'offres figurent
parmi les taches du consultant, la realisation des deux conditions de mise en vigueur
suivantes: (i) le recrutement du Consultant en Ingenierie, et (ii) l'etablissement des
documents d'appels d'offres definitifs pour les marches de travaux vises a la partie B (a) du
projet sont pratiquement irrealisables dans le dMlai imparti. Ainsi a l'avenir, le
Gouvemement et la Banque devront s'entendre sur des conditions de mise en vigueur et de
decaissements plus coherentes, en tenant compte des realites locales et de la conjoncture
politique et economique du pays, surtout dans un secteur oui l'execution du projet est
etroitement liee a la situation macro-economique.
30.         Au cours de l'execution du projet, il est a noter que le Consultant en ingenierie
a fourni les specifications techniques en vue de l'etablissement des dossiers d'appels d'offres
des etudes et travaux de nature complexe (terminaux petroliers - spheres de stockage de gaz)
ou de specificite particuliere (etudes maritimes), les documentations techniques des materiels
et l'assistance dans l'evaluation des offres des etudes maritimes. Toutefois, il existe des
taches pour lesquelles la competence locale est satisfaisante et ne necessite pas l'assistance du
consultant. Aussi les termes de references pour le recrutement des consultants ne doivent
contenir que les taches complexes afin de ne pas trop augmenter la part des frais des
consultants dans l'ensemble du budget.
31.         Lors des missions de suivi effectuees par la banque, les mesures a prendre
devront etre conjointement prises par les deux parties pour que les recommandations puissent
8tre suivies convenablement et appliquees selon un planning realisable.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30305
42'                              AA                                4'6'                             '48'                              510
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                       ANTSRNANA
PETROLEUM- PRODUCT DEOT                                                                                                              GET  5501 1932
ET      1,424  7,002
Ph      1.054  1,889
DEPOT                                                                                            NSBEGO                               -1,961 49,996.
Producd   Quantities, ex(pressed in tons for LPG                                                 NOSd.   BE.it   .1
12'                    and in m3 for other products, represent                                           Gus         8    116                                                          12'
storage capacities available ond output                                          JET       1,429  12 27                    ntsironana
quantities during 1 998.                                                          ET      1,589  5,213
PL        715  2,615                tVOHEMAR'
Gas      Gas                                                                               GO       4,729 19,274                  6               Prodoc CoPociY  Oowpot
EA       Essence Avia.-Gasoline, aviation                                                              I                                          JET         80    422
JET      Jet Fuel                                                                ANTSAHAPANO                                                      Er         235  2,822
ES       Essence Super-Gasoline, super                                        Prodoc  soi'OdpP~                                                   Ph         137  2,196
ET       Essence Tourisme-Gasoline,reua                                       ET         119"l   1,"70p2'           An~bil~6                      GO         544  6,138
PL       P6trole Lampont-Kerosene                                             GO          90    221,368ro"
GO       Gas Oil-DieselGO                                                                20321Vhno
FO       Fuel Oil
Notes':                                                                   JT         5       1
14     *Depots in the Antonanarivo region are supplied                         ET        11   131cATCoAciAHAopo
mostly by road (private trucksl,   43                   AJQ            P         176  317 46ETOOP                                                               25)   597
*Voh6nor-clepot built in 1987, locaited                    110k .P-  284-                                                                            PL 388Bolno,
from Tomatave (Toamasina),                    JEIT      2,356  1,356                                                                                G           5     ,8
*Fianarantsoa-dlepot is also supplied by rood,  E         ,5    ,7
from Manakara.                                 GO      10,6734  610,7
PL  100    629     ~     ~    ~                          ,                                   A                               GO        1000  3,140'
GO  967  5,182         Morslenobe5 623
22' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Z
+  AIRPORTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s..MRATER
r                                             nor~~~~~~~~~~~~    ,  IT 4 
---'--~~~~~-  RAILROADSNTRA~
T1.71q'          r  ctCooctyOtpt IaMooiag,,'o-                                   5
Tsl90s  P           6     ,7 
ET           78G         ,60682                        -         (3*tnssv
PL  100   '6                                                                                    GO I 100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN 31999



