Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11762-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
JUNE 30, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US$ = FMG 1,899 (March 1993)
MEASURES
Metric System, except:
1 barrel (bbl) = 0.159 cubic meter
1 metric ton of oil (AP134) = 7.35 barrels
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPD                  =     Barrels per day
CFD                  =     French Development Agency
DGE                  =     Directorate of Energy and Mines
ESMAP                =     Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program
FANALAMANGA    =           Forestry Company
FMG                  =     Malagasy Franc
FY                   =     Fiscal Year
GDP                  =     Gross Domestic Product
GWH                  =     Gigawatts hours
IBRD                 =     International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
IDA                  =     International Development Association
JIRAMA               =     Electricity and Water Company
KGOE                 =     Kilograms of oil equivalent
KV                   =     Kilovolt
LPG                  =     Liquified Petroleum Gas
MEM                  =     Ministry of Energy and Mines
MW                   =     Megawatts
OMNIS                =     National Military Office for Strategic
Industries
PPF                  =     Project Preparation Facility
SEPT                 =     Port  of  Toamasina   Operating
Corporation
SOLIMA               =     Malagasy Petroleum Company
TOE                  =     Tons of oil equivalent
UNDP                 =     United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



MADAaASCAR                          FOR omcIAL U9 ONLY
QL STAFF IUEMQAL REPRMT
PEMIOLEUMSJECTOR REFORMPOSC
Table of Contents
Pagg No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ..........................                                            . I.-il
I. THEENERGY  SECTOR   ..................................... -1-
Country Background  .                                                                       1..................................... I -
Energy Consumption  .                                                                         1.....................................   -
Energy Resources .           ....................................... -1-
Institutional Organization           ..................................  .  -2 -
Bank Activites in the Sector  .--................................  3-
H. THE PETROLEUM  SECTOR                           ................................  .  -3-
Petroleum Consumption  .........                 ........................... 3 -
Petroleum Product Distribution ...............................   -5-
The Refinery ...........................................                                      . -6-
Petroleum Terminal at Toamasina ........                  ...................... -7-
Petroleum Pricing and Taxation  ........               ......................  . -7-
Petroleum Exploration ..................................... r 8 -
M. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY ............................. . -9-
Organization and Management ...............................-. 9 -
Personnel . ........................................... -10-
Accounting and Auditing   ................................. -. 10-
Insurance  .............               ..............................   -10-
Operations  ............                ..............................   -10-
Procurement of Crude Oil and Products  ........................ -. 11-
IV. THE PROJECT  ...........                       .............................    -12-
Project Objectives ..........              ............................    -12-
Project Description  .                                                                   -12-
Liberalization and support to the privatdzation of
the petroleumr seor  ...............................    -13-
Rehabilitation and support to the privatization of the refin r .         .....  - 14 -
Basic improvements In the petroleum storage and transport
infrastructure .........             ............................ -15-
New petroleum  loading/unloading facility at Toamasina  ....-......  16 -
LPG Promotion Program  ............................ - 16 -
Project Preparation  .....................................    . 16 -
Ths rport is ed oan th  findings of an apprisal mision to Madaguac  in Jun/July 1991, which
onsstd of Mesr. Patricio Milla  Principal Economis (Tak Manager); T.S. Nayar, Principal Rfiing
Enginer; Anaud Doruel, FinPos Analyst; Mice Paon, Enery   Specialist; and Willisn  Mathews,
Ptrolum Economis. Post-Appaial misions won udertaken in Septmbe  19  and February 1993
by Mean. Midn. Domnl and PatoL  Mer  Stehen Gau1 ad Nourdin  Bonhr (AP3E) also,
couibuted to the report Mr. Ja    Bond w    do Lad Advisor. ML Lliaw Yomikp, Bilingual Staff
Aistnt, provided s"er i  mpport for th  prpaaion of dhe teport  Mr. Michesl Saris and Mr.
Franis   Auir-Saca   are the magin  Division Chief and th Departmnt Decor tspetively for
the opration.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV. (continued)
Project Costs        .........................................    -17-
Financing Plan         .........................................   -18-
Project Implementation .18...................................   IS-
Disbursements  .    ........................................   19-
Procurement ........................................... -21 -
Monitoring and Reporting ................................... -23-
Environmental Aspects ..................................... -23 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  .................................... -24-
Financial Performance of SOLIMA   ........................... -. 24-
Capital Structure  ....................................    -24-
Profitability  .......................................    -24-
Working Capital  ....................................    -24 -
Financial Projections  ..................................... -25 -
Financial Covenants   ....................................    -27-
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  AND RISS   ........................ -28-
Project Benefits  .......................................    -28-
Project Risks .............                   ............................    - 31-
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMM1ENDATIONS ...................-. 31-
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness ............................ -. 33 -
Conditions for Disbursements ............................... -. 33 -
Recommendation   ......................................    -33-
XT TABLES
2.1  Petroleum  Products Demand Projection   ............................ -4-
2.2 Refinery Yields .             ..........................................-. 7-
4.1 Project Cost Summary ....................................... -17-
4.2 Project Financing Plan ....................................... -18-
4.3 Disbursement Schedule ....................................... 19 -
4.4 Estimated Disbursements ..................................... -20-
4.5 Summary of Proposed Procurement                   gm    ...................... -21-
5.1 SOLIMA- Summarized Financial Staements ......................... -25-
5.2 SOLIMA Refinery- Summaized Financi Pro ectons ................... -26-
5.3  SOLIMA Refinery- Financial Rates of Reoun- Sesidvity Analys    ....                          ....... -27-
6.1  Refinery Rehabilitation- Economic Rates of Reoun- SoeintIvity Analyss                               - 29 -
6.2  New Petroleum  Loading/Unloading Facility- Economic Rates of Rotum    ....                      .... 30 -
1.1      Energy Balance 1990
2.1      Consumption of Petroleum  Products 1984-1991
2.2      Petroleum  Depots and Storage Capacity
2.3      Recommended Improvements In Storage and Oil Movement
2.4      Refinery Running Plan
2.5      Recommended Improvements for the Rfinery
2.6      Petroleum  Prices and Taxes
3.1      Organizational Chart of SOLIMA



ANNIEES (continued)
3.2    Organizational Chart of the Refinery
3.3   Summary of Operating Costs of the Refinery
4.1   Terms of Reference- Restructuring of SOLIMA
4.2    Terms of Reference- Establishment of an Open Access System
4.3    Terms of Reference- Establishment of a Petroleum Regulatory Authority
4.4    Terms of Reference- Management of the Refinery
4.5    Detailed Cost Tables
4.6   Implementation Schedule
4.7    Disbursement Schedules
4.8   Supervision Plan
4.9    Terms of Reference- Project Coordinator MEM
4.10   Terms of Reference- Experts to be Employed by SOLIMA
4.11   Terms of reference- Project Management Consultant- SOLIMA
4.12  Indicators for the Achievement of Objectives
5.1   SOLIMA- Historical Financial Statements
5.2   SOLIMA- Financial Projections
5.3    Notes and Assumptions for Financial Projections
6.1    Economic Analysis of the Rehabilitation of the Refinery
6.2    Economic Analysis of the New Petroleum Loading/Unloading Facility at Toamasina
6.3    Economic Analysis of the LPG Investment Program
7.1    Letter of Petroleum Sector Policy
8.1   Selected Documents Available in the Project Files



I



MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORMZPRJECT
Credit and ProJect Summarn
Republic of Madagascar
Beeadrim:                Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) and Malagasy Petroleum
Company (SOLIMA)
Amount:                  SDR 36.7 million (US$51.9 million equivalent)
Termn:                   Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
RekendinnTero:         nThe Government of Madagascar will onlend a maximum of SDR
23.6 million (US$33.3 million equivalent) from the proceeds of the
Credit to SOLIMA at an 8 percent interst rate for a period of 20
years (including a 5 year grace period). SOLIMA will bear the
foreign exchange risk on these funds. SDR 10.5 million (US$14.9
million) will be made available to SOLIMA on a grant basis.
Project Obiectives:     The project aims at enhancing the efficiency of the economy
through support to key reforms and infrastructure in an important
sector. The specific objectives of the project are to: (i) open up
the petroleum sector to private sector participation and create an
appropriate framework for a competitive environment; (ii) support
the basic infrastructure investments required to increase operational
efficiency and to attract private operators and investors; and (iii)
develop institutional capacity for the efficient regulation of the
sector.
proiect DescSptigon:     The project includes the following components: (a) liberalization
and support to privatization of the petroleum sector; (b)
rehabilitation and support to privatization of the existing petroleum
refinery at Toamasina; (c) basic improvement in the petroleum
storage and transport infrastructure; (d) construction of a new
petroleum loading/unloading facility at the port of Toamasina; and
(e) a program to promote the use of liquified petroleum gas (LPG)
by residential households.
Prolect Benefits and Risks: The introduction of market signals and of a competitive
enviroment in the petroleum sector will increase efficiency nd
promote economic growth. Tho elimination of the monopoly of
the State over the petroleum sector approved in January 1993, the
increased competition in petroleum distribution, the introduction of
open competitive bidding for the procurement of crude oil and the
basic rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, will save scarce
foreign exchange. In relation to the situation existing in 1990,



- ii -
these savings have been estimated at US$10 million per year after
project completion. With the new price and tax regime, the
petroleum sector has increased its contribution to fiscal revenues
from US$5.4 million in 1991 to US$19.8 million in 1992 and the
Government has used these additional revenues to satisfy priority
economic and social needs. The proposed rehabilitation program
for the refinery consists of house cleaning activities and minimum
investments required to bring back to working conditions assets
that have been damaged, and will allow the refinery to compete
against imports in a non-subsidized environment. The project will
improve the safety and environmental standard of petroleum
loading/unloading at the port of Toamasina, as well as reduce
transport costs for petroleum imports. The LPG Promotion
Program will replace storage and distribution equipment that has
reached the end of its useful life and will decrease the demand for
woodfuels.  The main project risks relate to fluctuations in
commodity prices, which could affect refining margins worldwide
and the availability of private funds for the privatization of the
refinery. The implementation of Phase I of the rehabilitation
program for the refinery will substantially reduce these risks and
will make the refinery attractive to the private sector.
Atimzted Costs:
Local       Forefgn        Totol        X of      X of
Curr.      Exch (FE)     Cost (TC)    FE (2)    TC (3)
A. Liberalization and Privatization
1. oestructuring of SOLINA                     0.0            1.1           1.1      100.0
2. Open acces  ysti                            0.0            0.3           0.3      100.0
3. Pogultory authority                         0.0             0.4          0.4      100.0
4. Priae    t        of the reffne                            3640                    90
B. Infrostructure Iinrovamnnts
1. RIhfbilltatlon of the refinery              0.3            6.5           6.8       95.0
2. Storge & transport facilitIes               1.2            10.8         12.0       90.0
3. Petrolou torminal at Tomassne               1.3            11.7         13.0       90.0
4. LPG_prowtion progrm0.0                          6.0          6.0      100.0
C. Prolact Pramaratfon and CoordinatIon           0.0            2.6           2.6      100.0
Physical contine ncies                       0.4            4.7           5.1
Prc eL noi             ---                    .              .             .



- lii -
Flnancing Sourem:
USS million        % Total
IDA                    51.9               65.5
SOLIMA                  1.8                2.3
Government              1.6                2.0
Sub-total
Private Sector (Phas E)   23.9            30.2
TOTAL            79.2              100.0
FY94 FY95 FY96  FY97   FY98  FY99
UJS$ million
Annual            2.5   9.1  13.4  12.5   10.0   4.3
Cumulative        2.5   11.6  25.0  37.5   47.6   51.9
Economic Rate of Return:  16 percent for the refinery rehabilitation component, 13 percent
for the new petroleum loadingtunloading facility at Toamasina
and 27 percent for the LPG promotion program.
aMi IBRD 20035R



a



MAAGASCAR
PhTROLEUM SECIOR REFORM PRO
L. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Country Baclurond
1.1    Madagascar is a large island with an area of 587,000 square kilometers, sparsely
populated by about 12 million inhabitants. With an average per capita income estimated at US$
230 in 1992, Madagascar is among the poorest countries in the world. Modest growth from
independence to 1972 was followed by stagnation until 1980 and sharp deterioration between
1980 and 1982. After a reverse in inward looking and dirigist economic policies the country
reassumed a slow growth path and in 1988-1990 it experienced for three consecutive years some
modest increases in per-capita GDP. In mid-1991, political turmoil swept the country,
accelerating the pace of transition towards a more open society but disrupting economic activity
and derailing the adjustment process. GDP declined by 6 percent in 1991 and is projected to
increase by about 1 percent in 1992, below the population growth rate of 2.9 percent. A new
government committed to adjustment policies is expected to be installed in the middle of 1993
following presidential and parliamentary elections.
Ern= Consumptlon
1.2   Annual energy consumption in Madagascar is about 2.4 million tons of oil equivalent
(toe), representing about 219 kilograms of oil equivalent (kgoe) per capita. Fuelwood and
biomass account for 83.3 percent of total energy consumption, while petroleum products and
electricity account for 13.5 and 3.0 percent respectively. A national energy balance for 1990 is
provided in Annex 1.1. The per capita consumption of modern fuels (petroleum and electricity)
is 34 kgoe, one of the lowest levels in the Southern Africa regionl/, and reflects the low
income and urbanization levels, the predominance of subsistence agriculture in the economy and
the small size of the industrial sector. Petroleum products account for more than 80 percent of
commercial energy and play a crucial role in the development of the economy.
E3nera Resource
1.3   Madagascar is entirely dependent on Imports of petroleum products, which weights
heavily on the balance of payments. These imports have normally absorbed between 15 and 30
percent of the foreign exchange earnings generated by exports. However, Madagascar has long
been known as a country with good prospects for commercial oil and gas discoveries. All the
elements for oil accumulation exist to some degree: thick sedimentary sections, plentiful fault-
related structures and surface oil in the form of tar sands and heavy oil. Two sedimentary basis,
Morondova in the west and Mahajanga in the north, have the best potential. Several seismic and
drilling programs have been undertaken, but no discovery of commercial interest has been made
to date.
1.4   The main renewable energy resources are fuelwood and hydropower. The area under
natural forests is estimated at 12 million hectares, to which should be added 300,000 hectares of
dedicated state and private plantations. Total wood consumption for energy purposes amounted
in 1990 to 3.0 million toe (approximately 7.9 ton of air dried wood). Data on the sustainable
I/The equivalent figures for selected African countries are: Tanzania: 36 kgoe; Mozambique:
86 kgoe; Zambia: 376 kgoe; Mauritius: 402 kgoe; and Zimbabwe: 527 kgoe. (Source: World
Development Report, World Bank, Washington, D.C. 1990).



annual yield of wood is unreliable (estimates range from 6 to 50 million ton of air dried wood),
but there are several regions where demand is greater than supply. Since wood cannot be
economically transported from surplus to deficit regions, the forest stocks are being heavily
depleted in these areas.
1.5   The hydropower potential of Madagascar is large. According to recent estimates, there
are over 300 known sites with a combined power potential of 14,000 MW and an estimated
annual generation of 60,000 GWH a year.  The present installed capacity is 106 MW and
represents a tiny fraction of the potential. However, the economic viability of exploiting
additional sites has not been determined and is affected negatively by the fact that the population
is widely dispersed and has very low loads, which does not allow for the construction of large
power plants.
1.6    Madagascar also has coal, lignite and peat resources, but they have not yet been exploited
commercially because of their physical remoteness, lack of industrial demand and the heavy
investments required. The main coal deposits are in the SAKOA basin, with estimated total
reserves of about 1,000 million tons. However, most of these reserves can only be mined by
expensive underground methods. Uranium-bearing minerals were discovered in the late 1940's
and some small scale mining was undertaken and subsequently abandoned. The United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) has financed some exploration activities, but they have not yet
resulted in commercial exploitation. Geothermal sites with adequate temperatures have also been
identified, but the economics of their development is also doubtful.
Institutional Organization
1.7   The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for the energy sector. The
activities are carried out by a Directorate of Energy (DGE) that is in charge of formulating and
implementing all planning and policy actions. The Ministry directly supervises the Malagasy
Petroleum Company (SOLIMA) and the Electricity and Water Company (JIRAMA). SOLIMA
is responsible for the importation, refining and distribution of petroleum products and until 1993,
exercised the monopoly of the State over the petroleum sector. JIRAMA is responsible for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity all over the country.
1.8   The National Military Office for Strategic Industries (OMNIS) is in charge of the
exploration, research and development of hydrocarbons. OMNIS is an autonomous organism
created in 1976 under the direct authority of the President of the Republic. OMNIS has
sponsored substantial research to establish the potential of hydrocarbons in Madagascar and
entered into joint venture and risk services contracts with private oil companies interested in
carrying out petroleum exploration activities in Madagascar.
1.9   The management and development of the national forests is the responsibility of the
Forestry Department of the Ministry of Water and Forests. Within the Forestry Department, the
Service for the Promotion of Forestry Products is responsible for forest resources inventory,
management, exploitation and reforestation. The other main institution in the sub-sector is the
parastatal agency FANALAMANGA, which was set up in the 1960's to develop a new pine
plantation at Haut Mangoro and supply raw materials to a pulp and paper industry that was never
established.



- 3 -
Bank Activities in the Sector
1.10  The first Bank activity in the sector was Credit 817-MAG for the Andekaleka
Hydropower Project approved in June 1978 for a total of US$ 33.0 million. A supplemental
Credit to finance cost overruns (Cr. 817.1- MAG) for US$ 10.0 million was approved in January
1980. The project included the construction of a dam, a power plant with two 29 MW generating
units and a 138 KV transmission line to Antananarivo. A Project Completion Report was
distributed to the Board in May 1991. Lessons learned from the project included the need to
improve demand analysis, the importance of up-front implementation of electricity tariff
adjustments and the control that must be exercised over the supervising engineer.
1.11   A Petroleum Exploration Promotion Credit (Cr. 1016-MAG) for USS 12.5 million was
granted in 1981 and helped the Government establish the legal and fiscal framework for
petroleum promotion and exploration. As a result of this project, four major oil companies
(Mobil, Occidental, Agip and Amoco) signed exploration/production contracts and invested a total
of over USS 300 million in geophysical surveys and in the drilling of 8 wells. An additional
Credit (Cr. 1298-MAG) for US$11.5 million was approved in 1982. While this Credit was given
to finance the exploration of the Tsimiroro heavy oil field, the work was prematurely terminated
because the initial results indicated that the project was not economically attractive and the left-
over funds were used for a second exploration promotion campaign. This has resulted in
additional exploration contracts with private oil companies (Shell, Maxus Energy and BHP) that
are under execution. A Project Completion Report on both projects was distributed to the Board
in October 1992. This report emphasized the importance of petroleum exploration legislation,
fiscal regime and model contracts to get interest from private oil companies in exploration.
1.12  A Credit for the Energy I Project (Cr. 1787-MAG) was approved in 1987 for an amount
of USS 25.0 million. This Credit financed some priority investments for the rehabilitation of the
power system of JIRAMA, the establishment of a least-cost master plan for the power sector, a
study of electricity tariffs, the development of improved charcoal making techniques and the
execution of energy audits in the industrial sector, and provided technical assistance and training
to the Ministry of Energy on energy planning and household energy issues. The implementation
of the project is proceeding satisfactorily and completion is expected by December 1994.
1.13   Under the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program (ESMAP), an energy
assessment of Madagascar was conducted. The report, published in January 1987 (Report No.
5700-MAG), concluded that the main energy problems are: (i) the growing fuelwood crisis, and
(ii) the growing burden of oil imports. The Bank also undertook in 1989, a complete review of
the petroleum sector (Report No. 7986-MAG) and the conclusions and recommendations of this
study served as the basis for the design of the present operation.
. THE PEITROLEUM SECTOR
Petroleum Consumption
2.1    Madagascar depends on imports to meet all its petroleum requirements.  Total
consumption is about 300,000 tons per year. This represents only 26 kilos per capita,
approximately one-fifth of sub-Saharan Africa's average per capita consumption level. About 55
percent of petroleum is consumed in the form of diesel, of which about 40 percent is used for



- 4 -
lectric power generation. Gasoline represents 18 percent of consumption and kerosene, used
mainly for lighting by low income households, represents 11 percent. The quantities of petroleum
products sold between 1984 and 1991 are shown in Annex 2.1.
2.2    Trends in overall petroleum consumption indicate an average annual increase of 2.6
percent In the 1984-1990 period. The growth rate was 4.8 percent in 1989 and 7.4 percent in
1990, but there was a decline of 7.8 percent in 1991 due to the economic downturn and political
instability. Consumption of fuel oil shows a downward trend over the period because some larger
industrial plants have been closed or have reduced their production levels. Consumption of
liquified petroleum gas (LPG) has been stagnant due to irregular supplies from SOLIMA,
inadequate stock of bottles that have not been replaced in more than 15 years and other marketing
and production deficiencies.
2.3    Demand for petroleum products is closely linked to the general trend of economic
activity. For projection purposes, a 4 percent annual increase in GDP has been assumed, which
translates into similar growth rates for diesel and fuel oil. For gasoline, it was assumed that new
imported vehicles will be more fuel- efficient and will reduce the growth rate to 3 percent. This
is equivalent to a 9 percent improvement in average fleet efficiency over the 10 year forecast
period. Kerosene, used primarily for rural lighting, exhibits very low consumption growth rates
in most developing countries (0 to 1 percent per year) due to changes in the rural-urban structure
and the penetration of alternate sources of energy, such as electricity and LPG. However,
Madagascar has shown in the past a steady growth in the consumption of kerosene of about 3
percent per year. For projection purposes, we have reduced this growth rate to only 1.5 percent
per year.
2.4   Tbe potential market for LPG is estimated to be at least 15 percent of the urban
household cooking energy use. This is equivalent to some 20,000 tons per year. However, given
the poor state of the existing infrastructure, even private operators would have difficulties in
developing supply systems to sustain very high annual growth rates. Therefore, for projection
purposes, it was assumed that there would be a 5 percent growth in the consumption of LPG in
the first years, followed by a period of 12 percent growth per year. In the year 2000,
consumption will only reach about 6,000 tons, which is far below the potential market but
duplicates the present level. The forecasted consumption for all products is presented in Table
2.1 bdow.
Tab2e 2.1
Petrolw Products O_ld Prolectlen
(thauw  ton)
LPG                         2.9                 3.4                  6.0
GAMSOLINE                  51.6                 58.1                67.3
KEROSENE                   42.3                "4.9                 48.4
DIESEL                     164.7               192.7                234.4
FUEL OIL                   27.2                 31.8                38.7
BITUI"                      2.3                 2.7                  3.3
M3 ,



Petroleum Product Distribution
2.5   SOLIMA is the only agency involved at the present time in the import, transport and
distribution of petroleum products. All imports of crude or finished products are brought by ship
into the storage tanks at Toamasina. The total storage capacity at this depot is 143,754 n' for
crude oil and 118,578 m3 for refined products. Approximately half of all finished products are
taken by ship to eleven coastal storage depots and the other half is moved by railway to inland
depots. Annex 2.2 is a map of Madagascar which shows the depots, their storage capacities and
the amounts of each product delivered to each depot during 1990.
2.6   Supply by sea can never be guaranteed within a week or so due to the possibilities of bad
weather, breakdowns or other disruptions. It is therefore prudent to try to keep a minimum
storage reserve of two weeks of consumption in each coastal depot. Because of the relatively
small storage capacity, this is not possible and many of the depots require a large number of ship
visits. In order to secure reliable supply stock levels and improve the efficiency of shipping
movements, the building of larger storage tanks at some of the coastal depots is required. With
the elimination of the monopoly of the state over the petroleum sector, which is supported by the
project, it is expected that the private sector will build this additional storage capacity. For the
delivery of products to the coastal storage depots, SOLIMA owns and operates three tanker ships
and several barges and tugs. One of the ships was built in 1966 and has a short remaining
seaworthy life. The others were built in 1978 and 1989 and could provide adequate service for
some years if managed efficiently.
2.7   The tank capacity at the inland depots is also very small and for many products there Is
less than two weeks of storage capacity. There is no strategic reserve for the case of breakdown
in supply, as demonstrated during 1992 in Antananarivo with the failure of the rail link to
Toamasina. SOLIMA owns a fleet of 79 rail tankers, of which all have beeu used more than 12
years (28 have been used more than 30 years). The project will finance the acquisition of 18 now
rail tanker wagons to be placed under a common carrier system. The Railway Company Is
responsible for tanker wagon movements and major maintenance works and SOLIMA is required
to pay the transport fees fixed by the Ministry of Transport. The rail line from Toamasina to
Antananarivo is a single track with passing loops at most of the stations along the route. The
track is in bad condition for about some 40 km and has lots of narrow curves, which limit the
safe operating speed of the trains and increase transport costs and time. However, the
development of alternative means of transport (pipeline) is too costly and the economic studies
have demonstrated that it is not profitable.
2.8   In spite of the difficulties and high costs, the petroleum transport system has operated
satisfactorily in normal circumstances. Shipments from Toamasina by rail are done daily in
special trains of 10-12 tanker wagons and the turnaround times are not excessive. There have
not been large supply interruptions to the coastal depots and the breakdown rate of the ship
tankers is reasonable, although cost of maintenance at the state owned shipyard Is high. A
specialized consulting firm was hired as part of the project preparation to study the improvements
required to increase efficiency in the transport and distribution of refined products. The main
recommendations are presented in Annex 2.3. Those recommendations that required little or no
investment are being executed at the present time by SOLIMA. Among the investment projects
proposed, SOLIMA has installed the new communication system between the depots and the
refinery, while all the other actions will be financed within the proposed project. However, a
major investment proposal not financed is to increase product inventory levels around the island
to reduce the number of shipping movements and other costs.



-6 -
2.9   From the coastal and inland depots, road tankers supply petroleum products to the
distribution stations, airports, industrial plants, government facilities and other major consumers.
SOLIMA owns about 36 road tankers, while others are owned by the private sector. There are
236 distribution stations, all run by private operators. However, SOLIMA owns 124 of these
stations and has leased them to private operators. The other 112 stations are privately owned and
operated.
ThLie Refn
2.10   The petroleum refinery located at the port of Toamasina was established in 1966 as a
simple hydro-skrimming facility with a processing capacity of 10,000 barrels per day (450,000
tons per year). The capacity was increased in 1972 to about 16,500 barrels per day (750,000
tons per year) with the addition of a pre-flash and a merox unit. The configuration was
supplemented in 1982 with a vlsbreaker, a gasoil hydrosulfurization unit and a bitumen unit. At
the present time, only the old hydro-sklimming facilities are used. Annex 2.4 shows the running
plan for present operation when the feed is 12,000 barrels per day of Iranian light crude. The
pre-flash and merox units have not operated since 1980 and the visbreaker since 1989. Prior to
that year, the visbreaker only operated occasionally and very erratically and this constitutes the
major problem for the economic operation of the refinery.
2.11  In general, the refinery operation, condition and management are poor compared to
modern industrial standards required for efficient and economic operation. This is due in part
to the historical lack of foreign currency to pay for adequate maintenance materials and facilities,
and also because of deficiencies in management, supervision and skilled personnel. The
consultants hired as part of the project preparation to study ways to increase efficiency in the
production and distribution of petroleum products (para. 4.16), identified large leaks of
hydrocarbons and losses of steam, but fortunately, it is possible to eliminate these leakages with
minimal investments. Sub-standard and undersized power generators, acquired through bilateral
financing, contribute to the unreliability and shutdowns of refinery operation. Even though the
mechanical condition is generally poor, there are no areas bad enough to need widespread
replacement.
2.12   The consultants also identified several improvements that can be made to the operation
of the refinery. These recommendations are presented in Annex 2.5. A crucial action to
improve refinery operation is rehabilitating the visbreaker complex. This complex was the object
of a detailed technical inspection in July/August 1992, conducted by a specialized engineering
firm, to precisely determine the rehabilitation works that are needed and to estimate the costs.
The estimated costs are not large (US$3.5 million) and will be financed under the proposed
project. Included in the improvements recommended by the consultant is the installation of a
vacuum gasoil thermal cracking unit, which has been designated as Phase U of the rehabilitation
program and will substantially raise refining profitabiity. It is expected that this second phase
will be financed by private investors. Table 2.2 summarizes the yields of current operations and
of Phases I and II of the rehabilitation program. The main technical effect of this program is to
decrease the amount of fuel-oil produced and the losses, and to increase the production of diesel,
which is in short supply from the production of the refinery and has to be imported.



Table 2 2
Nedisescar- Refiner Yields for Ir nian Lfsht Cru
(in Demc ntapee
Current situatfon           Rehabftftati on Program
l ___________________________  _____________________        Phase  I          Phase   11
LPG                                    2.0                   1.2                1.3
Regular Gasolifne                      14.1                 15.4               17.6
Premfum Gasolfrw                       1.1                   1.1                1.1
|Kerosene                               9.6                  13.5               14.2
|Dieset                                21.5                  32.2               37.6
Fuel oil                               44.3                  28.5               19.6 
Bitumen                                                      3.6                 3.6
Petroleum Terminal at Toamasina
2.13   All crude oil imports and a large proportion of the refined petroleum products distributed
within the country, transit via the port of Toamasina. The present loading facilities at the port
are a weak link in the distribution system, on the grounds of operation, safety, economics and
the environment. The existing loading facilities are situated in the middle of the general cargo
area and there are difficulties of berthing in the limited space available. Tanker loading and
unloading are done through flexible hoses causing frequent oil spillage that pollutes and endangers
the harbor safety. The entire operation is inefficient, unsafe and environmentally unacceptable
and involves risks to life and the surrounding port facilities. In addition, the size of the ships that
can deliver crude oil to Madagascar is limited to 50,000 tons and advantage cannot be taken of
the lower freight rates available in larger tankers. Furthermore, in the future, it is foreseen that
the 50,000 tons tanker will become increasingly rare. Studies undertaken have proved the need
for a new mooring dolphin away from the general cargo area. A specialized port consulting firm
was hired to study the technical and economic viability of this alternative and concluded that it
is the best solution to eliminate the weakness of the present situation. The construction of the
new petroleum loading/unloading facility is included in the project.
Petroleum Pricing and Taxation
2.14   Until April 1992, the prices of petroleum products were fixed by Government's decrees
and revised at irregular intervals. Decree No. 91431 of August 1991 indicated that prices of
refined products should fluctuate following the evolution of international prices, the exchange rate
and local costs. Arret6 No. 2089-92 from the Ministry of Energy and Mines, dated April 17,
1992, freed the prices of LPG, jet-fuel and fuel-oil and established a formula for maximum prices
of gasoline, diesel and kerosene based on the import parity concept, to be applied directly by the
operators without the need for Government's intervention. This formula is based on international
prices plus transport costs, converted into local currency at the market foreign exchange rate.
The political authorities did not accept the regional differentiation of prices based on specific
internal transport costs and Arrete No. 4451-92 of the Ministry of Energy and Mines, dated July
28, 1992, modified the parameters of the pricing formula and established single national prices
with a per-equation on domestic transport costs. Since then, petroleum prices have been adjusted
monthly by the existing operators without Government interference. The present pricing system



-8 -
is satisfactory, but the regional differentiation of prices will be necesary when a competitive
market is established to provide incentives to supply outlying areas. The disbursement of project
funds for works related to the basic improvements in storage and transport will be conditional to
the adoption by the Government of appropriate actions to allow prices in the regions to reflect
differences in transport and storage costs (para. 7.3 (b)).
2.15   Before July 1991, petroleum taxation was based on ad valorem' tax rates, but these rates
had no economic or practical impact. Given that domestic petroleum prices were sometimes even
below cost, SOLIMA could not pay the posted petroleum taxes without substantidal financial
losses. Therefore, actual petroleum taxes paid were the result of yearly negotiations between the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Energy and SOLIMA. By reducing the actual taxes paid
from the posted values, petroleum prices were kept at low levels, sometimes below costs, and
SOLIMA was allowed to show profits in its financial statements. This practice eliminated the
incentives to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency and blocked all possibility of
participation of private operators in petroleum activities.
2.16   An amendment to the Finance Law, dated July 1991, introduced 'specific taxes for each
petroleum product. These taxes are added to the import parity prices, calculated in accordance
with the procedures described in paragraph 2.14, to obtain the prices at the level of the
consumers. The impact of petroleum taxes on prices have now been made transparent and direct.
The environment is now appropriate for private sector companies to operate and there are
incentives to improve efficiency within SOLIMA. Annex 2.6 indicates the existing taxes, as well
as price levels. Fiscal revenues from petroleum taxes were US$4.5 million in 1990 and US$5.4
million in 1991 and increased to US$19.8 million in 1992 as a consequence of the changes in
the pricing system and the increases in the tax rates. The taxation for 1992 corresponds to an
average rate over all petroleum products of 20 percent. The 1993 Finance Law introduced
further changes in the rates of petroleum taxes and fiscal revenues from this source are expected
to reach US$31.6 million in 1993, or 30 percent of sales revenues, which is considered a
satisfactory level. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that its
policies related to petroleum products, prices and taxes will be examined each year during project
execution and that actual petroleum prices and taxes wIll reflect the exchange of views with the
Bank (para. 7.1 (e))
Petroleum Exploratlon
2.17   Petroleum exploration efforts in Madagascar started in 1948 with the activities of the
Societe de Petrole de Madagascar (SPM), a subsidiary of the Bureau des Recherches de Petrole
of France which later became the French oil company ELF. Between 1948 and 1969, SPM
carried out airmags, gravity and seismic surveys and drilled a total of 40 wells in the western
basins of Madagascar. These efforts were complemented in the late 1960's and early 1970's, by
Conoco, Chevron, Copetma, Agip and Tenneco, who also carried out studies and drilled about
16 wells. All exploration activities were suspended in 1975 after the nationalization of the
petroleum sector.
2.18   The National MUitary Office for Strategic Industries (OMNIS), created in 1976, requested
the financial assistance of the Bank to promote new petroleum exploration activities and, as
indicated above (pars. 1.11), Credit 1016-MAG for US$12.5 million was approved in 1981.
This Petroleum Exploration Promotion Credit helped the Government in establishing the legal and
fiscal framework for petroleum exploration. A geological study undertaken by au exploration
consultant, led to a first round of contracts with four major oil companies (Mobil, Occidental,



-9 -
Agip and Amoco). A total of eight wells were drilled and while traces of hydrocarbons were
found, no commercial discovery was made.
2.19   Using funds available in the Tsimororo Heavy Oil Project (Cr. 1298-MAG), a new
round of exploration promotion activities was held in 1988 and 1989. As a result, SHELL,
Maxus Energy and BHP signed exploration contracts that are still active. Acquired data was
disappointing with regard to both on-shore Mahajanga and off-shore Cap Saint-Andre, but the
large off-shore Mahajanga and Morondava basins have given inconclusive results and remained
under-explored. In the Karroo Corridor, results again indicate traces of hydrocarbons. OMNIS
has requested further assistance. The Bank is following the situation to determine future actions
needed to maintain the interest of the private sector in petroleum exploration.
m. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
3.1   The proposed Credit would be made available to the Government of Madagascar. SDR
23.6 million, the equivalent of US$33.3 million, from the proceeds of the Credit will be onlent
to the Malagasy Petroleum Company (SOLIMA) at an 8 percent interest rate for a period of 20
years, including a 5-year grace period and SDR 10.5 million, the equivalent of US$14.9 million,
will be made available to SOLIMA on a grant basis. The present situation of this company is
described below. However, as part of the project, SOLIMA will be subject to a restructuring and
corporatization program as described in para 4.7 below, in which part of the debt will be assumed
by the new companies to be created.
Oanization and Managenent
3.2   SOLIMA is a state owned company established in 1976 by the law that nationalized the
assets of the then existing petroleum companies (Elf, Total, Caltex, Esso, Shell and Agip). The
organizational structure is presented in Annex 3.1. The management of SOLIMA is the
responsibility of a General Director, who is assisted by two Deputy Directors, one for distribution
and operations and the other for refinery. A Board of Directors of nine persons is appointed by
the Government. At the present time, the Board is integrated by the Ministers of Energy and
Transport, the Director General of OMNIS and other high level civil servants. The Manager of
the refinery and two representatives of the personnel are also directors.
3.3   The Operations Division plans and undertakes the import of crude oil and refined
products, manages the transport between Toamasina and the intermediate depots throughout the
country and operates the transport fleet. The Distribution Division manages all depots except
Toamasina and all the distribution stations, which are divided into six regions. The refinery
operates as an independent unit with separate divisions for operations, maintenance and
administration and finance. ITe organizational structure of the refinery is presented in Annex
3.2. To ensure that the rehabilitation program achieves its expected benefits and that the refinery
is run efficiently during the transition period, the Government has agreed to entrust the
management of the refinery to a team of experts financed from the proposed Credit during a
transition period before the opening up of SOLIMA's capital to the private sector. The
employment of these experts will be a condition to disburse the funds available in the Credit for
the rehabilitation of the refinery (para. 7.3 (a)).



- 10 -
Personnel
3.4   SOLIMA has a staff of 1,550 employees. The company is overstaffed and short of
skilled personnel with appropriate qualifications and knowledge. The refinery employs 330
persons, of whom only 6 percent are professionals. It is also overstaffed and its overall
organization is inefficient, considering the small size of the refinery and its low complexity. The
restructuring and privatization of the company (para. 4.7) will result in a reduction of personnel,
while the private management of the refinery will enable some on the job training to improve
skills and performance.
Accounting sand Auditing
3.5   Financial statements of SOLIMA for 1987/88, 1988/89, 1989/90 and 1990/91 were
reviewed by external auditors and certified without qualification. According to the auditors,
SOLIMA's general accounting system gives a reliable picture of the company. Fixed assets are
valued at historical cost and foreign currency debt is revalued annually in keeping with
international standards. Preparation of the 1990/91 financial statements was delayed due to the
political difficulties in the country and the change to a fiscal year coinciding with the calendar
year, but has now been satisfactorily completed. During negotiations, SOLIMA agreed to submit
annually its audited financial statements not later than six months after the closing of each fiscal
year (para 7.1 (i)).
3.6    The Distribution and the Refining Departments maintain separate financial accounts,
which are consolidated annually by the Finance Division. However, refining and distribution
costs are not clearly identified. For instance, the cost of crude oil imports and related expenses
(freight, insurance, letter of credit, fees, etc), as well as interest incurred on loans for the
installation of the visbreaker, are charged to Distribution. The refinery is considered as a
processing unit and it charges a fee equal to its costs to the Distribution Department and,
therefore, has no incentive to improve its efficiency and performance. At the present time, both
Departments use complex, semi-manual accounting systems that are divided into an excessive
number of cost centers. Monthly statements provide very detailed data on the expenses of each
cost center and these expenses are periodically compared with the budget. However, these
statements are of limited value to top management because they do not provide key indicators on
the performance of major functions. The consultant that will assist in the restructuring of
SOLIMA will also help in developing appropriate management information systems. During
negQtiations, the Government agreed to make the refinery a separate legal entity, established as
a joint-stock company under commercial law (paras. 4.7, 4.8 and 7.1 (c)).
Surance
3.7   SOLIMA is insured with the two existing state-owned insurance companies (Aro and Ny
Havana), which are themselves reinsured by foreign underwriters. The refinery, including the
Toamasina depot, is insured against fire, explosion, cyclone, lightning and related risks and
premia are moderate. No improvements in this area are required.
Omtilons
3.8   SOLIMA is quite efficient in the distribution of petroleum products despite Madagascar's
difficult geography and deficient railway and telecommunications systems.  The average



- 11 -
distribution cost is estimated at US$55 per ton which is not excessive. The major problems faced
are: (i) deficient supply planning due to the uncertainty in refinery's operation, poor
communications and insufficient storage capacity at certain locations, (ii) abnormally high
operating cost of the ship tankers, due in part to the high prices charged by the state owned
shipyard at Antsiranana for repair and maintenance work, and (iii) deficient loading and
unloading facilities which results in low utilization rates for the vessels. The project includes
specific actions to address these issues and further increase operational efficiency in petroleum
distribution and transport.
3.9    As indicated above (para. 2.11-2.12), the operation of the refinery is generally poor in
term of losses and quality control. Maintenance is wholly inadequate and the refinery does not
undertake the full scope of maintenance services normally required within the industry. The
operating costs of the refinery are presented in Annex 3.3. Marginal operating costs (excluding
depreciation and financial charges) are estimated at US$6.8 million, which represent US$19.4
per ton for a processing volume of 350,000 tons, as is the present market of Madagascar, or USS
12.4 per ton if the refinery is used at its present nominal capacity of 550,000 tons. Data for
refineries of different complexities and sizes indicate that operating costs in the region of US$15-
17 per ton are not unusual, which would indicate that the present costs of the refinery at
Toamasina are higher than the norm, but not by a large amount. As calculated in Chapter VI,
the operation and condition of the refinery can be improved with little investments to a level
where it can supply products at a lower price than direct imports. The most important measures
are to fix the leaks, to recommission the visbreaker complex and to provide good operating,
maintenance and management stewardship. All these measures are included in the proposed
project.
Procurement of Crude Oil and Products
3.10   The appropriate procurement of crude oil and petroleum products is essential for the
efficient operation of the petroleum sector. Due to the shortages of foreign exchange, SOLIMA
was not able in the past to base its import decisions on prices and technical suitability for the
refinery. Purchases of crude oil were based on bilateral arrangements available to the country
and the payment terms offered by suppliers. For example, during the period 1985-1989, the
refinery processed crude oil provided by the ex-Soviet Union and prices paid by SOLIMA were
sometimes as much as USS 8 per barrel higher than international market levels. The situation
has changed and in 1992, the procedure of open and transparent competitive bidding was used
for the first time, with the participation of 23 suppliers. However, the political authorities did
not fully accept the results of the bids and forced a sharing of the market among two suppliers
at the least cost price. A similar open competitive bidding process was successfully conducted
in March 1993 and the country was able to obtain attractive supply prices and reduce the foreign
exchange cost of petroleum purchases. During negotiations, agreement has been reached that the
procurement of crude oil and products will be done through competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank (para. 7.1 (g)). For this purpose, the Government and SOLIMA will
adopt, before Credit effectiveness, standard bidding documents and will furnish each year, for
Bank's review, the invitations for bids (para. 7.2 (c)). After completion of the selection process,
SOLIMA will also furnish to the Bank, a copy of the bid evaluation report.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
ProJect ObJectives
4.1    The specific objectives of the project are to: (i) open up the petroleum sector to private
sector participation and create an appropriate framework for a competitive environment; (ii)
support the basic infrastructure investments required to increase operational efficiency and to
attract private operators and investors; and (iii) develop institutional capacity for the efficient
regulation of the sector. The proposed project will have a direct impact on economic growth,
which is one of the objectives of the country strategy. The introduction of both a competitive
environment in the petroleum sector and of a pricing regime based on opportunity costs, will
improve the efficiency in the use of energy and the allocation of economic resources. The
improvements in the operational and commercial efficiency of the petroleum sector will sve
scarce foreign exchange and reduce the cost of supplying petroleum products to all economic
activities, with a direct impact on economic growth. The new petroleum pricing and tax system
has permitted a large increase in fiscal revenues. All these issues are dealt with in the
Government's Letter of Petroleum Sector Development Policy (Annex 7.1). The project will also
contribute to the environmental objectives of the country strategy. One of the project's
components (LPG promotion program) will result in a decrease in the demand of woodfuels in
urban areas and have some positive environmental consequences, while improvements in the
operation of the refinery and the construction of the new petroleum loading/unloading facility at
Toamasina will reduce pollution from leakages and spillage and increase safety.
4.2   The liberalization process and the establishment of a competitive environment received
a big push by the legal elimination of the monopoly of the State over the import, refining
transport, storage and distribution of petroleum products. Law No.93/002 of January 8, 1993,
and Decree No. 93-136 of March 24, 1993, allowed private operators to open and operate
distribution and service stations and, after a transition period of three years, these private
operators will also be permitted to import refined products. The system of setting official prices
for petroleum products by Government decrees and keeping them below opportunity costs has
also been replaced by a formula for maximum prices based on the import parity concept.
Maximum prices are calculated by the operators and market prices are freely set by them within
the limits. At the present time, petroleum prices have fluctuated since August 1992 according
to market conditions without Government interference. Petroleum taxes have been made
transparent for all operators by the introduction of a specific tax for each product that would be
adjusted every year, and fiscal revenues from petroleum taxes are increasing from US$4.5 million
in 1990 to an estimated US$31.6 million in 1993. To promote further the competitive
environment, the project will include the establishment of rules for the open access of all
operators to certain basic loading, storage and transport infrastructure, as well as the
restructuring, corporatization and privatization of SOLIMA and other measures that will further
promote efficiency within the sector and ensure that it makes adequate contributions to the growth
objectives.
prolect Descriptign
4.3    The project includes the following components:
(a)    Liberalization and support to the privatization of the petroleum sector;



- 13 -
(b)    Rehabilitation and support to the privatization of the existing petroleum refinery
at Toamasina;
(c)    Basic improvement in the petroleum storage and transport infrastructure;
(d)    Construction of a new petroleum loading/unloading facility at the port of
Toamasina; and
(e)    Program to promote the use of LPG by residential households.
4.4    Liberalization and sunport to the Drivatization of the petroleum sector. The first step in
the liberalization of the petroleum sector was to allow the private sector to import and distribute
lubricants. Private sector activities in this area effectively started In the middle of 1990, but the
appropriate legislation was only approved on August 12, 1991 (Law No. 91-022). As indicated
above (para. 4.2), the elimination of the legal monopoly of the state over the import, transport
and distribution of all petroleum products was accomplished through Law No. 93/002 dated
January 8, 1993. Decree No. 93-136 of March 24, 1993, defines the terms and conditions for
the implementation of the law, allows private operators to immediately open service stations and
fixes a transition period, going to December 31, 1995, during which private distributors are
required to purchase gasoline, diesel and kerosene from the existing refinery in Toamasina at an
import parity price. During this transition period the refinery will be subject to a basic
rehabilitation and improvement program financed under the project and will be managed by a
team of experts under a management contract, allowing it to compete efficiently with imports of
refined petroleum products. Private distributors are expected to soon open and operate new
service stations and distribution posts. Some international oil companies have already started this
process. The regulatory framework for the future competitive market will also be fully defined
during this transition period.
4.5    At the same time, as explained above (para. 2.14), the Government has moved decisively
to eliminate price controls on petroleum products and create adequate conditions for the
development of a private competitive market. Decree No. 91-431, published on August 13,
1991, terminated all controls over the price of fuel-oil, jet-fuel and LPG, and established that
gasoline, diesel and kerosene are subject to fluctuating maximum prices based on the import
parity concept.  Under this concept, prices cannot surpass a theoretical price based on
international prices, the exchange rate and the cost of transport and unloading. The parameters
that defined the maximum prices were established by decisions Nos. 2089/92 and 4451/92 of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines, dated April 17, 1992, and July 28, 1992, respectively. Within
the limits of these maximum prices, each operator is now free to fix its selling price, which
SOLIMA has done since August 1992 without the Government's interference. The defined
pricing policy, together with the new taxation policy described in para 2.16 above, provides an
appropriate framework to achieve the privatization and competition objectives of the project.
4.6    The next steps in the liberalization process are: (i) the restructuring, corporatization and
the opening up of SOLIMA's capital to private sector participation; (ii) the establishment of clear
and transparent rules for the operation of a system of open access by all operators to certain key
infrastructure facilities; and (iii) the organization of a national regulatory authority to set
standards and protect competition in the petroleum sector. The project will finance consulting
srvices and training to implement adequate measures in these areas, as well as a team of foreign
experts that will run the refinery during the transition period. The cost of all these consulting



- 14 -
services is estimated at USS 5.8 million. Terms of reference for these consulting services are
included in Annexes 4.1 to 4.4.
4.7    The objective of the restructuring of SOLIMA is to create several joint-stock companies
("socidtes anonymes') under commercial law, to replace the existing state enterprise. It is
envisaged that shares of these companies, including those of the refinery, will be sold to the
private sector. As indicated above, some international oil companies are expected to start
operations in Madagascar within a short time. There are, at the present time, 112 privately
owned distribution stations that could be affiliated to these companies, if conditions are
sufficiently attractive.  Since the final objective is to have competition among different
distribution companies, open access to some key infrastructure (especially the loading/unloading
facility at Toamasina) will be guaranteed and a system of tolls will be defined. The manager of
the common facilities will be independent and will give appropriate assurances of fair play to all
operators. In particular, it will not be an operator which is an individual distributor or a retailer
of petroleum products. A national regulatory authority will be established to oversee the
competitiveness and the adequate functioning of the petroleum sector and make sure that all
operators satisfy minimum technical, safety and environmental standards. During negotiations
(para. 7.1 (b)), agreement was reached with the Government that: (i) the refinery company will
be legally created as a separate joint-stock company, wholly-owned subsidiary of SOLIMA, under
commercial law (para. 7.1 (c)); (ii) a proposal for the restructuring of SOLIMA will be submitted
before June 30, 1994; (iii) a study on the establishment of a system of open access by all
operators to key infrastructure petroleum facilities will be submitted before March 31, 1994
(para. 7.1 (e)); and (iv) a study for the establishment of the Petroleum Regulatory Authority will
be submitted before June 30, 1994 (para. 7.1 (f)). The establishment of the open access system
and of the Petroleum Regulatory Authority will be a condition for the disbursement of funds for
works related to the improvement of petroleum storage and transport (para. 7.3 (b)). The
creation of SOLIMA's subsidiary, the adoption of the restructuring plan for the rest of SOLIMA
and the taking of all steps required to allow private sector participation in SOLIMA subsidiary's
capital, will be a condition for the disbursement of funds for the new loading/unloading facility
at Toamasina (para. 7.3 (c)).
4.8    Rehabilitation and support to the Drivatization of the refinery. Studies undertaken by
specialist consultants have concluded that the economic and financial viability of the refinery
depends on recommissioning the visbreaker complex (which ran only for some months after its
installation in 1982 and was damaged by a fire in 1988), rehabilitating the electric system,
eliminating steam and hydrocarbon leaks, and on improving overall efficiency and reliability of
operations. A Realistically Achievable Performance Program (RAP) was defined for these
minimum house cleaning activities that will put the refinery in a position where it can compete
with the direct import of refined petroleum products (para 2.12 and Annex 2.5). The cost of this
program is estimated at USS 6.8 million. A condition for disbursement of Credit funds for this
activity will be the hiring of the team of experts that will manage the refinery during a two-year
period, as indicated in para. 4.6 above (para. 7.3 (a)). The management contract will be based
on performance indicators and payments will be linked to results. Terms of reference are
included in Annex 4.4. Upon completion of these rehabilitation works, the refinery and all assets
and liabilities related thereto will be transferred to the new refinery company that will be
established (para. 3.6.), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the IDA. The rehabilitation
program will be executed in parallel with the restructuring of SOLIMA and upon completion of
both components, the capital of the new refining company and of some of the companies created
from the present SOLIMA will be opened to the participation of private capital.



- 15 -
4.9    A second phase of the rehabilitation program for the refinery includes the addition of new
equipment to the existing visbreaker complex to allow for thermal cracking of vacuum gas oil.
The cost of this phase, which is not included in the project, is estimated at USS 23.9 million and
will result in attractive refinery margins and profits due to increase in the amount of diesel that
would be produced. The second phase will be initiated only after the refinery has been opened
to the participation of the private sector, which is expected to finance the physical investments.
After the completion of Phase I, the refinery will be a profitable entity that would be in condition
to attract private capital. The private operators of service stations, who are gaining some
experience with the domestic market, are the obvious candidates for these investments.
4.10 Basic improvements in the petroleum storage and transport infrastructure. To increase
the efficiency and reliability of petroleum supply the project will finance: (i) the purchase of
additional rail tankers and other minor equipment; (ii) repairs to the existing crude and product
storage tanks; (iii) the replacement of the pipelines from the port of Toamasina to the storage
facilities; (iv) improvements in the petroleum unloading facilities at Mahajanga and Manakara;
and (v) studies to identify faster and safer methods to unload petroleum products at some
localities, as well as the acquisition of software packages to improve planning of transport and
distribution, and training. The total cost of all these components is estimated at US$12.0 million.
4.11   The main problem to improve the reliability of the supply of petroleum products in
Antananarivo and the central highlands is the poor condition of the rail system between
Toamasina and Antananarivo. The alternative of constructing a pipeline has been studied, but
the results indicate that this is not economically justified. Improvements in the rail system and
the purchase of additional locomotives are being undertaken under Cr. 1694-MAG, co-financed
by the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD). The proposed Credit will finance the
purchase of 18 additional rail tankers to replace old and obsolete equipment. The cost of this
component is US$2.3 million. Other minor equipment for distribution is estimated at US$0.5
million.
4.12   Two of the six crude oil storage tanks in Toamasina are out of commission with floating
roofs defects and a third is in a dubious condition. To get the freight benefits of the larger
tankers that could supply Madagascar it is necessary to have all six crude oil tanks fully
operational. The cost of these repairs is estimated at US$1.0 million. The product storage tanks
need miscellaneous minor works on the level indicators, fire protection systems, agitators, bond
wall and others, at a cost of US$0.5 million.
4.13   The four pipelines that run from the petroleum terminal at the port of Toamasina to the
storage tanks were originally either buried below ground level or in an elevated pipetrack between
concrete slabs, but are now exposed in many places. The cathodic protection is of uncertain
quality on the crude pipeline and has been totally disconnected in the other pipelines. In addition,
new houses have been built along the right of way of the pipelines and population density has
increased with the result that the pipelines do not meet normally accepted petroleum industry
safety standards. The most appropriate solution is to build new pipelines on a different route.
This is estimated to cost US$4.4 million.
4.14 Mahajanga is Madagascar's second largest port and could be a second source of supply
of products to Antananarivo, but is suffering high rates of silt deposition. Over the years, it is
estimated that up to 2.5 meters of the depth in the port has been lost and at the present time
maximum draught at the SOLIMA berth is given as 7.5 meters. The existing tankers cannot
arrive fully loaded and the present discharge operation is dangerous and cannot be attempted at



- 16 -
night or during bad weather. Under Credit 1752-MAG, a dredger has been rehabilitated and
some limited dredging at Mahajanga will be undertaken. To improve the unloading facilities, a
new pontoon will be built in an area that allows the arrival of fully loaded and larger vessels.
In Manakara, the petroleum tanker anchors about 900 meters outside the breakwater, where there
is adequate depth, and small barges provide a shuttle service to the terminal. These barges
cannot operate during low tides conditions. A transport sector project under preparation is
expected to finance dredging activities, but to provide reliable and safer methods of unloading,
a pipeline will be built from the storage depot to an off-shore mooring. The cost of both these
investments is estimated at US$3.0 million. Studies to improve unloading facilities, as well as
the acquisition of software packages to improve the planning of transport and distribution will be
financed at a cost estimated at US$300,000.
4.15 New petroleum loading/unloading facility at Toamasina. As indicated in para. 2.13, the
existing petroleum loading/unloading facilities at Toamasina are situated in the port itself, mixed
with the general cargo area, and there are difficulties of berthing in the limited space available.
Flexible hoses are left at the bottom of the sea, retrieved for loading/unloading, and small
spillages are frequent due to the type of operation and the state of the facilities. Because of the
location, there is also an ever-present danger of fire and explosion, with considerable risk to life
and to the surrounding port facilities. In addition, the size of ships is limited to about 50,000 ton
tankers, which are becoming increasingly rare. In the present situation, advantage cannot be
taken of the lower freight rates available in larger tankers. Consultants identified a dolphin
mooring as an attractive solution to the problems of the existing terminal. Another specialized
consultant examined the feasibility of the new facility, confirmed that a dolphin with sufficient
manoeuvering space was the best alternative, provided design and cost estimates and conducted
an inidal environmental analysis. The new facility will be the property of the Government and
will be available to all petroleum operators under the open access system. The cost of this
oDmponent is estimated at US$13.0 million. A condition for the disbursement of Credit funds
for this component will be the completion of an additional environmental analysis and agreement
on the implementation of a satisfactory mitigation plan (para. 4.38), as well as the signing of a
convention between SOLIMA and the Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (SEPT) for
defining the modalities for the execution of the works and the use of the new petroleum facility
(para. 7.3 (c)).
4.16   LPG Prootion Progam. Sales of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) in Madagascar are
about 2,900 tons per year, which are very low even by African standards. Existing filling plants
are in urgent need of rehabilitation and obsolete equipment need to be replaced. The project will
finance the rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure and the replacement of obsolete equipment,
as well as additional storage capacity and transport equipment, so as to increase the reliability of
supply and start the development of the domestic market. These investments are expected to have
an immediate impact in increasing the consumption of LPG, providing an alternative to the use
of woodfuels. The cost of this program Is estimated at US$6.0 million.
Project Peparatlon
4.17  In the first semester of 1989, the Bank conducted a detailed review of the petroleum
sector and published a sector report (Report No. 7986-MAG dated July 13, 1989). Following
this review, an advance under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved and
consultants (KBC Proces Technology) were hired to review the operation of the refinery and of
the distribution system and to make recommendations to increase efficiency. The study of the
consultants was published in May 1991 and presented a detailed improvement program for the



- 17 -
refinery and the distribution system, together with an economic analysis of alternatives. This
report constituted the basis for the preparation of the proposed project. Some of the conclusions
were elaborated in a second report published in July 1991, which further defined the scope of
some of the activities of the proposed project, including Phase H of the rehabilitation progran
for the refinery.
4.18   The stu'dies undertaken by KBC Process Technology had identified that the economic and
financial viability of the refinery depended on recommissioning the visbreaker complex. In order
to establish with more certainty the economics of the rehabilitation of the refinery, a specialized
company (ORTEC) was hired to carry out a complete mechanical inspection of the visbreaker and
estimate the costs of the required works. This inspection confirmed that the measures taken to
protect the process units had been successful and that the costs of the rehabilitation were
reasonable (approximately US$3.5 million). At the same time, another specialized consultant
(BCEOM) examined the problem of the petroleum loading/unloading facility at Toamasina and
confirmed that the safety, operability and environmental aspects of the port would be greatly
improved by the construction of a new loading/unloading dolphin. They also undertook a
detailed cost estimation for this work. Both these reports were examined by KBC Process
Technology, that further issued a Project Definition Report in October, 1992. These studies and
reports have been examined by SOLIMA and the Bank's missions and constitute the basis of the
proposed project.
rolect Cos
4.19    Project costs are detailed in Annex 4.5 and summarized in Table 4.1 below. Total costs,
including contingencies but excluding taxes, are estimated at US$55.3 million, of which US$51.4
million (93.0 percent) are foreign exchange costs. The costs of Phase I of the rehabilitation
program for the refinery are not included in these figures. They will be financed by private
investors. Physical contingencies of 15 percent were used for the petroleum loading/unloading
facility and 10 percent for all other works, equipment and for all consulting services. Price
escalation for foreign costs is based on the expected increases in international prices estimated
by the World Bank, while local inflation is estimated at 15 percent in 1993, 10 percent in 1994
and 6 percent thereafter.
(USS *ILLIlon)
Local      Foreign        Total        X of      X of
Curr.     Exch (FE)      Coat CTC)    FE (2)    TC (3)
A. Liberlization *nd Privatftstlon
1. Restructuring of SOLI1A                     0.0            1.1          1.1     100.0
2. Open acoes sysotm                           0.0            0.3          0.3      100.0
3. Regulatory authorIty                        0.0            0.4          0.4      100.0
4. Private mN9_ement of the refinery           0.4            3.6          4.0       90.0
S. Infroetructure IuDrovementc
1. Rehabilitation of the refinery              0.3           6.5           6.8      9f.0
2. Storge & transport fa#ilLties               1.2           10.8         12.0      90.0
3. PetroLcuo terminal at Toamaina              1.3           11.7         13.0      90.0
4. LPGO.pro otion prore                        0.0            6.0          6.0      100.0
...............     ..   l R .. . . . . . . . ..... .    ......... . ..    ... .....     E..:   ... .   ... : . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .. . . . .   . . .
C.  Prolect Prenerstion *nd Coordination          0.0           2.6           2.6     100.0
..    ................ . . ....... .......  ... ......... .   . . . . . ......................   ... ... .......  ...    . .    .    .......  ............  . ....  . . ..........   .   ..
PtyIcatl eontingnies                         0.4           4.7           5.1
Price contfr-ncles                           0.3           3.7           4.0
_  .....-..,..,.,-,...  . - .        . ...     . ..



- 18 -
Finanding Plan
4.20 Total cost of the project, including Phase II, is estimated at US$79.2 million. Details of the
financing plan are presented in Table 4.2. The foreign exchange cost of the program under Phase I will
be financed by the proposed Credit (US$51.4 million). The Credit will also finance the local cost of the
consulting services (US$0.5 million). The contributions of the Government of Madagascar (US$1.6
million) and of SOLIMA (US$1.8 million), will cover other local expenditures. The private sector will
finance Phase II of the rehabilitation program, for an amount estimated at US$23.9 million.
Tabte 4.2
Prolect Firjn.tcj  Pt
(LUS million)
Local        Foreign        Total         X of Total
IDA                                0.5          51.4          51.9             65.5
SOL 1IMA                           1.8            .            1.8             2.3
GOV. OF MADAGASCAR                 1.6            -            1.6             2.0
SUB-TOTAL                          3.9           51.4         55.3             69.8
PRIVATE SECTOR PHASE 11)           1.2           22.7         23.9             30.2
TOTAL                              5 * ;  - . .            _  _-   _   . . . . . . . . . . 10
4.21   The proposed IDA Credit of US$51.9 million would be made to the Government of Madagascar,
which will retain US$3.7 million for the liberalization and privatization component, excluding the team
of experts for the private management of the refinery. An amount equivalent to US$33.3 million will
be on-lent to SOLIMA at an interest rate of 8 percent (at approximately 1.1 times the standard IBRD
rates) with a 20- year repayment period including a 5-year grace period. The balance of US$14.9 million
will be made available on a grant basis to SOLIMA, who will implement on behalf of the Government
the construction of the new  petroleum  loading/unloading facility at Toamasina.  To facilitate
implementation. However, this terminal will remain the property of the Government. Execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and SOLIMA will be a condition of Credit
effectivenes (para. 7.2 (a)). The portion of the Credit proceeds on-lent for the rehabilitation of the
refinery will be assigned to the refinery company upon its legal establishment.
Project Implementation
4.22 The Directorate of Energy of the Ministry of Energy and Mines will be responsible for
implementing all the components related to liberalization and privatization of the petroleum sector,
excluding the team of experts for the private management of the refinery. A Project Coordinator will
be named for this purpose before Credit effectiveness under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association (para. 7.1 (b) and Annex 4.9). SOLIMA will be responsible for all other components, and
a qualified manager, a mechanical engineer and an accountant selected within the present staff of
SOLIMA, will be employed for this purpose before Credit effectiveness under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association. SOLIMA will also hire before Credit effectiveness an experienced
engineering consultant to assist the company in the management of the project and to complete the final
bidding documents for the rehabilitation of the refinery (para 7.2 (c)). The terms of reference of these
experts are included in Annex 4.10 and those of the consultant in Annex 4.11 .
4.23   Qualified foreign contractors will be hired for the rehabilitation works at the refinery and for the
construction of the new petroleum loading/unloading facility at Toamasina. The Project Definition Report
mentioned in para. 4.18 above includes preliminary bidding documents for these activities, as well as
terms of references to request proposals for the private management of the refinery during the transition
period (Annex 4.4). The terms of reference for the restructuring of SOLIMA, the establishment of the
rules for the operation of the open access system on key petroleum facilities and the organization of the



- 19 -
national regulatory authority (Annexes 4.1-4.3) were originally prepared by Bank's staff and fiurher
defined after discussions with the Malagasy authorities. The implementation schedule for each project
component is presented in Annex 4.6, which also includes a table linking the time schedule of investments
and the key reform actions in the sector.
Disbursements
4.24 The project will be implemented over a five and a half year period and the Closing Date will be
December 31, 1998. As indicated in Table 4.3 below, the IDA Credit will finance 100 percent of foreip
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for rehabilitation works and 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for equipment and materials. Consulting services, technical assistance and training will be
disbursed against 100 percent of total expenditures, excluding taxes.
Table 4.3
Disbursement Schedule
Descrigtion                        Pteretage Flnanced                     Tb
A.GOVERNMENT
(1) Consultants' Services and Training: 100%                               1.9
1- SOLIMA
(2) Works:
(a) Visbreaker                 100% of foreign expenditures            2.6
80% of local expenditures
(b) Tanks and Other Repairs;   100% of foreign expenditures            8.7
Replacement of Pipelines; and  80% of foreign expenditures
Loading/Unloading Facility at
Mahajanga/Manakara
(c) Loading/Unloading Facility    100% of foreign expenditures         13.5
at Toamasina                80% of local expenditures
(3) Equipment and Materials        100% of foreign expenditures            13.4
(4) Consultants' Services and Training:
(a) Private Management         100%                                    4.2
of the Refinery
(b) Project Management:        100%                                    1.5
Hydrographic and other Studies,
C. OTHER
(5) Refunding of the PPF           Amounts Due                             1.5
(6) Unallocated
TOTAL                                                                      L2



- 20 -
4.25 A summary of the estimated disbursement by year, derived from the implementation schedule,
is prosented In Table 4.4. Complete details on disbursements are included in Annex 4.7, together with
a comparison of the expected disbursement profile of this project with the standard disbursements profiles
of all energy projecu in Africa and all projects in Madagascar. The disbursement profile of the proposed
project falls slightly behind that of all energy projects in Africa in the first two years, but thereafter it
does somewhat better than the two standard profiles. This is explained by the nature of the rehabilitation
works to be financed that do not require extensive construction periods.
Tabte 4.*
Estl_tod Dlder_nto
tun I" l t I n)
FY94                         2.5                           2.5
Fr95                         9.1                          11.6
FY96                         13.4                         25.0
FY97                         12.5                         37.5
FY98                         10.0                         47.6
FY99                         4.3                          51.9
4.26   To expedite project execution and give the implementation agencies rapid access to the funds of
the Credit, two Special Accounts in foreign exchange will be opened under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines and SOLIMA, with an authorized allocation of US$0.5 and US$1 million
rpectively, in a commercial bank in Madagacar acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocations cover
four months of eligible expenditures. All withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for
payments of contracts for less than US$25,000 equivalent which will be made on the basis of Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained for review by
DA staff during supervision missions and by the external auditors. All payments under US$50,000
equivalent must be made through the Special Accounts.
4.27 Separate accounts of the project will be kept by the Directorate of Energy and by SOLIMA.
Anmul auditing of the project accounts will be performed by external auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
Thee audits will include the Special Accounts and the Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Dnrin
nugtiglion wagreement was reached that the Bank will receive the report of the auditors within six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Audits of the funds on-lent and made available to SOLIMA will
be done in the context of the overall audits of the company (paras. 5.9 and 7.1 (i)).



- 21 -
Procurenent
4.28    The Table below summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs ad the proposed method
of procurement.
T9bte 4.5
1.mmar2  ot eP ofTas1.                     a.
ICE   LIB        Othor        ~~~~Totot
1.1     R habiltctlton of Vl brc k*r                 3.0                             -3.0
(2.8)                                       (2.8O
1.2     Rcp Irs of Tanks                              1.7                            -1.7
(1.6)                                      (1.6)
1.3     Replacement of Pipelines                     5.3                             -           5.3
(4.8)                                      (4.3)
1.4     Loading/Unloading Facilities                 3.6                                          3.6
at Nahajang  and Mnakara                    (3.2)                                       (3.2)
1.5     Loading/Unloading                            16.5                                        16.5
FacLit  atToamauina                        (14.9k                                      114i
2.1     Power CeneratIon                             3.9                                         3.9
(3.7)                                       (3.7)
2.2     Minor Equipment and "pre Parts                 -               0.6         0.r            0.9
for the Refinery                                              (0.6)       (0.3)         (0.9)
2.3     Rail Tankers                                  2.7                            -            2.7
(2.4)                                      (2.4)
2.4     Ninor Equipment and Sparo Parts                                0.5         0.1w           0.6
for Storage and Transport                                     (0.4)       (0.1)         (0.5)
2.5     Equipment and Vehicles for LPG                5.4               1.5        0.. 741
Progrm                                       (5.4             (1.5)       (0 2          (T1
3.1     Restructuring SoLIM-                                                       1.3            1.3
(1.3)        (1.3)
3.2     Estbli Fshmnt of Open Access                   -10.3                                      0.3
Systm                                                                     (0.3)         (0.3)
3.3     EstabLisnt of Reulatory                        -0.3"                                      0.4
Authority                                                                 (0.3)         (0.4)
3.4     Management of the Ref inrry                    -04.6                                      4.4
(4.0         (4.6
3.5     Nydrographic  nd other Studies                                             0.36           0.3
(0.3)        (0.3)
3.6     ProJoct Management                                                         1.3"           1.3
(1.3)        (1.3)
3.7     Trafning                                       -10.2                                      0.2
(0.2)         (0.2)
4.      Retwiding of PPF                                                              5           1.5
Figures in parenthesis ore the respective emounts financed by the Inteational Devlopmnt Association.
s/  Includes propieltary spares direct from  mipiera (US$0.2 milion) and intenational shopping (US$0.1
mIil on).
b/ International Shopping.
c/ Consultants services should be procured In accordance with WorLd Bank,kdls1  gt1i.n    Caf.ultnutc bk
orld Si. . orrowers .nd bv tho Wor d Ba.k    .s Ex.cutina Agenc (ahington D. C   A..)



- 22 -
4.29   The rehabilitation of the visbreaker and of the electric system, the repair of the storage tanks, the
replacement of the pipelines and the improvements in the petroleum loading/unloading facilities at
Mahajanga, Manakara and Toamasina would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB).
ICB procedures would also be used to purchase the power generation equipment, rail tankers and the
major equipment required for the LPG promotion program. Minor equipment for the rehabilitation of
the refinery and for storage and transport, as well as for the LPG promotion program, which are difficult
to package, would be procured by limited international bidding (LIB) acceptable to IDA. The LIB
procured contracts would range between US$0.1 million and US$0.5 million and have an aggregate limit
of US$2.5 million. Small items and spare parts in lots of less than US$100,000, with an aggregate limit
of US$400,000 would be procured by international shopping.  Proprietary spare parts for the
rehabilitation of the refinery, with an aggregate limit of US$200,000, would be procured directly from
original suppliers.
4.30   Procurement of goods and works will be the responsibility of SOLIMA, which is familiar with
the competitive bidding procedures of the World Bank. Consultants will be retained by SOLIMA to
prepare bidding documents and assist in the supervision of the investment component of the project, as
well as to manage the refinery during the transition period (para. 4.8). The contract for the preparation
of final bidding documents and supervision may be awarded to the same engineering firm that undertook
the basic studies for the project and prepared preliminary bidding documents for major components (para.
4.17), which was originally contracted in accordance with the World Bank guidelines. The procurement
of the other consulting services would be the responsibility of the Directorate of Energy of the Ministry
of Energy and Mines, which is at this time implementing the Energy I project (Cr. 1787-MAG), and has
frequently used the World Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
4.31   Madagascar's cumbersome procurement regulations have been a major constraint to the
implementation of Bank- financed projects. Following a comprehensive review by the Bank of the
country's procurement regulations (Country Implementation Review- December 1990), the Government
Issued in January 1991, new regulations to streamline procedures and accelerate project implementation.
A follow-up Country Implementation Review was undertaken in March 1992, resulting in the Government
decision to use the Bank's Sample Bidding Documents (Prime Minister's decree No. 892/92 of March
6, 1992). This is expected to speed up procurement and project implementation.
4.32   The Project Implementation Schedule is presented in Annex 4.6, from which the estimated
disbursements (lTable 4.3) have been derived. As indicated above (para. 4.23), preliminary bidding
documents for major investment components and for consulting services have already been prepared.
4.33   During project supervision, IDA- financed contracts for works and equipment above a threshold
of US$150,000 would be subject to prior review procedures. These include bidding documents,
invitations to bid, proposed award and final contracts. The review process will cover about 95 percent
of IDA financing. All contracts for consulting services will also be subject to IDA prior review.
4.34   Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Directorate of Energy and SOLIMA;
b) comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA by the Directorate of Energy and SOLIMA (assisted
by consultants) indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the total
project, including best estimates of allowance for physical and price contingencies; (ii) revised
timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion



- 23 -
time for indicated contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods
of procurement;
c) a completion report by SOLIMA within six months of the Credit Closing Date.
Monitoring and Regorting
4.35   Progress reports will be submitted to the Bank every three months. The structure of these reports
will be defined during the first supervision mission. The proposed supervision plan is detailed in Annex
4.8. A mid-term review will be held by December 1995 and will cover, among other aspects, the
following: (i) an assessment of the restructuring of SOLIMA and of the operations of the refinery; (ii)
the functioning of the competitive market in the sector; (iii) the pricing and taxation of petroleum
products; and (iv) the overall implementation of the petroleum sector reform program. Annex 4.12
includes a set of project indicators, agreed with the Government and SOLIMA, to measure the
achievement of project objectives. During the review, the Government and IDA will agree to the changes
that are necessary in project implementation. As indicated below (para 5.9), IDA will receive the report
of the external auditors within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Environmental Aspects
4.36   The first phase of the rehabilitation program for the refinery will eliminate all leaks of
hydrocarbons that at the present time lead to risks of fires and pollute the environment. Large quantities
of scrap oil, that are found all over the refinery site in drums tanks, lagoons or soaked into the ground,
will be cleaned up and will be disposed of, or recovered into fuel oil. Collection sumps, from which
hydrocarbons will be pumped, will be built to reduce the chance of contaminating the groundwater.
Firewater monitors and fire hydrants will be overhauled, replaced whenever necessary and subject to a
rigorous preventive maintenance schedule. The waste water treatment system will be improved and the
level of effluent contamination will be regularly measured to make sure it satisfies modern environmental
standards.
4.37   The ransfer of the petroleum loading/unloading facility at Toamasina outside the bulk cargo area
of the commercial port will improve security and safety, as well as reduce the possibility of oil spillages.
As indicated below, the location of the proposed new facility will be determined on the basis of a detailed
environmental analysis. Pipelines will be emptied by ship pumps or shore pumps at each operation before
being disconnected and therefore no spills are expected to occur. The new structure itself is relatively
small and will be barely visible from the shore. It consists of eight dolphins, which are open structures
on steel pipes driven into the bed at a depth of 19 meters below sea water level. Since the structure is
open, no sediment deposits should occur in its vicinity. The pipelines for crude oil and products leaving
the new facility wIll be installed in a shallow trench dredged in the sea bed and this will cause some
turbidity for a short time. However, since spoils will be left close to the trench, existing currents will
make them drift back to the trench after the pipelines are installed and the sea bed condition will end up
being the same as initially.
4.38   The new petroleum loading/unloading facility will result in much less risk than the present
facilities. Oil tankers now have to manoeuver in the middle of a busy port and there are risks of collision
with bulk carriers, which become very dangerous when there are sudden wind gusts. The project wil
remove an important traffic from a busy port and from the narrow part of the access channel to it,
eliminating collision risks. A specialized environmental consultant will be hired to select the most
appropriate location of the fcility, to evaluate the construction and operations of the proposed facility
on the surrounding marine and coastal enviromment, to prepare a mitigation plan and to help SOLIMA



- 24 -
in the preparation of an oil spill contingency plan. The project will finance equipment and materials for
rapid and environmentally sound response in the eventuality of an oil spill. No Credit funds will be
disbursed for the new loading/unloading facility at Toamasina until agreement is reached between IDA
and the Government on the implementation of a satisfactory mitigation plan (para. 7.3 (c)).
4.39   The LPG promotion program that will also be financed with the Credit, will foster some small
scale reduction in the consumption of woodfuels and will help in the fight against deforestation and for
the protection of national forests. This program constitutes a first step in developing the consumption
of an alternative fuel, which at the present time is in Madagascar at a very low level, even by African
standards.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Flnandal Performance of SOLIMA
5.1   SOLIMA's past financial performance is summarized in Table 5.1. Figures are given in U.S
dollars, the currency in which most of SOLIMA's expenses are incurred and on which domestic
petroleum prices are now indexed. Further details are provided in Annex 5.1.
5.2    Capital Strucu. Since the late 1980s, SOLIMA has built up a sound capital structure. As of
June 30, 1990, SOLIMA's equity stood at US$29.7 million, comprised of $17.7 million in shareholders'
subscriptions and $12.0 million in quasi-equity. The latter consists of a State contribution received in
the mid-1970s when SOLIMA was created and of the assets of the now-defunct Caisse de Perequation
and Caisse des Hydrocarbures, which SOLIMA took over in the early 1980s. As a proportion of total
assets, equity increased steadily from 19.3 percent in 1988, to 27.2 percent in 1991. Foreign currency
indebtedness has been moderate in relation to cash generation, and the long-term debt to equity ratio stood
at 21:79 in 1991.
5.3   Profitability. Prudent management, together with a monopolistic control of the market and a
negotiable tax burden, have allowed SOLIMA to enjoy a relatively high profitability since the late 1980s.
In particular, the lower procurement costs resulting from the steep decline in international prices that
occurred in the second half of 1988 allowed SOLIMA's earnings before tax to soar from US$2.6 to
US$8.1 million between FY 1988 and FY 1989. In FY 1990, the company had earnings before taxes
of US$10.5 million and a net profit of U$6.5 million on revenues of US$103.4 million. In FY 1989 and
1990, profit before income tax was 9 and 10 percent respectively of sales revenue; operating margin was
a healthy 17 percent in both years and return on equity was 21 and 22 percent, respectively. In 1991,
operating income and profit before income tax declined to 4 and 2 percent of sales, respectively, because
the increase in domestic prices did not filly reflect the increased cost of crude oil and product imports,
and because SOLIMA paid higher taxes on petroleum products (see para. 2.16). However, because
domestic prices are now indexed on international petroleum prices, SOLIMA's profit margins are
expected to become more stable in the future.
5.4    Working Capit. Over the past few years, SOLIMA was able to improve its working capital
position, as the current ratio increased from 1.4 in FY 1988 to 1.9 in FY 1991. Accounts payable (a
substantial part of which are tax liabilities) dropped from 241 days of sales in FY 1989 to 126 days in
FY 1991. Accounts receivable increased moderately from 38 days in FY89 to 52 days in FY91, because
of some payment delays from the administration.



- 25 -
Tsbis 5.1
tOLII - I_rlzad Ff1afIL trt_nts
(MIttllln WI, IFr wilJ 3.0).
1988          1989          1990         1991 I/
A- 1n ott
sales leveu                                       95.1          93.4          103.4          176.7
O"rrt1no Conttinl Qd_ w1te]f59                              77.2)         {86.2)         173
Net F1nmnc1al Expm                                (3.1)         (4.9)         (0.1)          (0.6)
Exceptiam. EXD        ..s                         (3.6)         (3.3)         (6.6).
IncmeTax                                      (0.8)(3.6                       0           (1.0
.   *.......,..,..,........  ........... . ;.~ . :.:.:.:.~ . :.:.5. . :.:. ..
........   . ....   G**   ::
3- Ulance Shet.
Current Assets                                    87.5          61.1           76.4           82.1
Fixed Assets                                      13.2          10.3           11.0           13.t
Current Liabflitie                                64.5          33.0          32.9            42.7
Long-Term Debt                                    10.0           S.5           J.0            7.0
Provisrons                                         6.8           8.8           16.0           20.0
Total Equity                                      19.4          21.1           29.7           26.1
t@taIub1Ut.q. *; . ,.iX.,"SlE ~...... ........ ,. l4...,. .....
C- F1  1mial Ratf
Current Ratio                                     1.36           1.85          2.32           1.92
got                       ~~~~~~192      302            4121
Profit before tax/Sales                            3X            9             10X             2X
1/ Fical year of 1S  onthr wnsd Deeember 31, 1991.
14nancial Prolectlons
5.5     The projected flnancial performance of SOLIMA Refinery is summarized In Table 5.2 below.
Detailed projctdons for its incom, statements, fiunds flow statements and balance sheets are given in
Annex 5.2. Those projection ae bued on SOLIMA's preliminary financial stateme    for FY91, which
provides information on the ass And opating costs of the refinery, nd include Phases I and I of the
refinery rehabilitation projdct, which hu a financial rate of return of 17.9 percent and a net prosent value
of US$20.0 million at a discount rate of 10 percent. Under a Phase I configuration alone, theos fgure
would be 22.9 percent and US$16.4 million, respctively. The assumptions used in thes projections are
fully detailed in Annex 5.3 and 6.1. The rehabilitation investments and the management contrat to be
financed by the project are expected to incroase the input/output efficiency of the refinery, a Wel a
result in cost savings of 25 percent on purchases of matIals and spare parts made possible by Improvod
maintenance practices. It is also assumed that implementaton of Phae II would be financed by equity
subscriptions or quui-oquity instrument arrand by private sharholders, totalling $23.0 million In
1995-1996. The rate of return on shareholders' equity during the life of ssets Is projected to be 15.8
porcent.



- 26 -
5.6     Financial projections show that the refinery after its separation from the rest of SOLIMA will
incur losses during 1993 and 1994, because petroleum prices based on the import parity concept will not
cover all refining costs. However, with the implementation of Phase I of the rehabilitation project, the
refinery can expect to have a net operating income of US$2.2 and US$3.0 million in 1995 and 1996,
respectively, and profit before taxes of US$0.8 and US$1.4 million, respectively. In 1997, profit before
income tax would increase to about 6 percent of sales and return on average equity (excluding provisions)
would be about 7 percent. Over the remaining course of the project, these returns would rise to 6.6
percent and 10.5 percent, respectively. The cash-flow position would be tight during the first two years
of operations as a result of the projected losses and the higher working capital requirements because of
the initial build-up in petroleum inventories. These are presently carried by the Distribution Department
of SOLIMA, but would be transferred to the refinery. Debt service coverage would become satisfactory
beginning in 1995, with a minimum multiple of 1.5 from 1996 onwards.
Table 5.
SOLIM  - Summorzed F1nonwelo Pro lectfo
Ccmntent 1992 US mIliton)
193 1/      1994        1995       1996        1997       1998
A- Income Stotenuits
Sales Revenue                               23.2       44.3       61.8        72.7       85.4       98.9
Operating Cost (inc.                       (23.3)    (44.3)      (59.6)      (69.7)      (79.5)     91.8
depreciation)
Operating Income                            (0.1)       0.0        2.2         3.0        5.9        7.1
Other Expenses                              (0.3)      (0.9)      01.4)       (1.6)       (1.6)     (1.6)
5- Btance Shoets
Current Assets                              10.1       13.5       16.2        17.9        19.4      21.5
Net Fixed Assets                             5.5       11.0       26.4        39.2       38.2       36.3
--.4...S'  '"'''''''"""''''''""' '''...........
r@ tei .A~~~~~~ee...s.. .........
Current LfabilIes                            6.5       10.5       12.9        13.6        14.4      16.1
Long Term Liabilities                        5.1       10.4       13.0        14.0       13.7       12.0
Provisions                                   1.2        1.3        1.4         1.6         1.7       1.8
Total Equity                                 2.9        2.2       15.3        27.9       27.9       27.9
"  t..... ;. -r.. , .......            ....... ..X,..   ..... ..             41. 
C- Ffrnnie1l Ratfo
Current Ratio                               1.57       1.29       1.26        1.32       1.35       1.34
Equity/Assets                                 182         92        36X         49N        48X        48X
Operatfno Ineome/Sales                     (0.4X)       0.1X       3.6X       4.1X        6.92       7.22
Debt Service Coverage                        0.56      0.54       1.17        1.52       2.48       2.46
j/  Six months from July 1 to Deceer 315 1993.



- 27 -
5.7    The base case financial projections were subjected to a sensitivity analysis to measure the impact
of changes in several key variables: capacity utilization, project cost, the volume of domestic demand,
export sales, and the ratio of international prices between refined products (gasoline, diesel and kerosene)
and crude oil. The results are summarized in Table 5.3. The analysis indicates that adverse movements
in these key variables do not provoke unattractive financial returns. If the refinery were to run at 80
percent of its scheduled 12,000 bpd capacity, the project would still generate a 16.0 percent financial rate
of return. An increase of 20 percent in capital costs would reduce the rate of return to 15.5 percent,
whereas a 20 percent decline in domestic demand would cause it to recede to 15.6 percent. However,
the project is more sensitive to exports sales and international price relationships between refined products
and oil. If exports drop by 20 percent, the rate of return would subside to 12.3 percent, whereas a 10
percent reduction in the refined products/crude price ratios would cause the rate of return to slip to 13.9
percent.
Tobte 5.3
SOLINA - Financilt Rat. of Return
Sensitivity Analdyis
Financial Rate        Equity
of Return        Rate of Return
Bass Case                                                 17.9X               15.8J
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..........,,,,,,. .,             .,,... .,      .,,, 
DLomestte Demand D eclnes 10X2                            16.8X               14.72
Domestic Demand Declines 20X2                             15.6X               13.42
.: ::::~~~.:.    :    ::::: ..... . ',|     .. .   . .R...''
Prol et Cost Increases 102                                16.6X               14.1X
IProi et Cost Increases 202                                15.521 6
a;ad *bi.  -rdc P#ic  atio iectiSe  5
Finandial Covenanls
5.8    SOLIMA  and the refinery that will be established as a separate entity during project
implementation, would each be required to: (a) maintain a debt-service coverage ratio of at least 1.0 in
FY95 and of 1.5 starting in FY96 and every year thereafter; and (b) consult and obtain prior approval
from the Association before making capital investments exceeding US$2.0 million para. 7.1.(i)).
5.9    SOLUMA and the refinery company, would be required to submit annually to the Association
long-form financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, within 6
months of the close of each accounting year. The auditor's reports are to include a memorandum on
internal control, an audit of project accounts, including specific references to Statement of Expenditures,
an audit of the Special Account, and other such information as the Association may reasonably request.



- 28 -
VI, PROJECT lUSIbCATION AND RISKS
Project Benefits
6.1. The introduction of market signals and of a competitive environment in the petroleum sector will
increase efficiency and promote economic growth. The system of setting official prices for petroleum
products by Government's decree and keeping prices below opportunity costs was eliminated in July
1992. As explained above (para. 2.14), the Government has freed the prices of LPG, jet-fuel and fuel-oil
and established a formula for maximum prices of gasoline, diesel and kerosene based on the import parity
concept. Maximum domestic petroleum prices are now equal to international prices plus transport costs
converted into local currency at the market foreign exchange rate, plus internal unloading and transport
costs. Maximum prices are calculated by the operators and freely set by them within the limits, with the
Government reserving itself the right to do an ex=st revision only. Since August 1992, petroleum
prices have fluctuated each month according to international market conditions and reflected opportunity
costs, and this will tend overtime to improve efficiency in the use of petroleum products and the
allocation of economic resources, thus promoting economic growth.
6.2. The elimination of the monopoly of the State over the petroleum sector, the increased competition
in petroleum distribution, the introduction of open competitive bidding for the procurement of crude oil
and the basic rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure, will save scarce foreign exchange. In relation
to the situation existing in 1990, these savings have been estimated at about US$10.0 million per year
after project completion. At the same time, with the new tax regime, the petroleum sector has increased
its contribution to fiscal revenues from about US$5 million in 1990 and 1991 to US$19.8 million in 1992
and an expected US$31.6 million in 1993. The Government will be able to use these savings and
additional revenues to satisfy priority economic and social needs.
6.3. The LPG promotion program will foster small-scale substitution of LPG for charcoal and will have
positive environmental consequences by alleviating the country's deforestation problems. Given the
incentive structure created through the project, it is expected that these LPG promotion efforts will be
replicated in the future. The elimination of hydrocarbons leakcs at the refinery and the improvements in
the loading/unloading facilities at Toamasina will also have positive environmental effects.
6.4. The economics of the rehabilitation of the refinery has been assessed by comparison with the option
of closing it down and supplying the domestic market entirely with imported products. As explained
below (para. 6.7), the implementation of Phase I would generate savings to the country in the order of
US$2 - US$4 million annually compared to the direct import of refined products, while Phase II would
generate additional savings of US$5 million per year. The refinery rehabilitation component has an
expected economic rate of return of 15.7 percent if only Phase I is implemented and 17.0 percent after
implementation of both Phases I and H. The net present value at a discount rate of 10 percent is US$8.8
million after Phase I and US$20.9 million when both phases are implemented. The details of these
calculations are presented in Annex 6.1.
6.5. A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the impact of changes in capital cost, domestic
demand, capacity utilization and prices. A 20 percent increase in the cost of the project would cause the
rate of return to fhl to 13.5 percent for Phase I and 14.3 percent for both Phases I and I. With respect
to capacity utilization, should the refinery run at only 80 percent of the scheduled utilization of 12,000
bpd, the rate of return would fall to 12.0 percent and 13.6 percent, respectively. Similarly, a 20 percent
reduction in the volume of domestic demand would lower the rate of return to 13.5 percent for Phase I
and 15.2 percent for both phases. Changes in freight cost or in the price of crude would have no
substantial impact on the rate of return of the refinery rehabilitation project.



- 29 -
6.6.   However, the results are sensidve to the relation between the prices of refined products to the
prices of crude oil. The base case used the average price ratio over the period 1986-1992. Should this
ratio decrease by 5 percent, the rate of return will fall to 10.7 percent for Phase I and 14.2 percent for
both phases. If the ratio decreases by 10 percent, the economic rate of return will decrease to 5.4 percent
under Phase I and 11.4 percent under Phase II. Price sensitivity analysis show that the implementation
of Phase U makes the project more robust if the relation between international product prices and crude
oil prices falls across the board. The results of all the sensitivity analysis are presented in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1.
Reh bflttatfcn- Economic Rat" of Return
SaMitIVItY AnstYLv
Base Case                                                  15.7                    17.0
ProIect Cost incresses 10X                                 14.6                    15.6
Prolect Cost Increases 20X                                 13.5                    14.3
Domestic Demand Declrnes 10X                               14.9                    16.2
Domestic Demand Declines 20X                               13.5                    15.2
Capacity Utilization Dectines 10X                          14.1                    15.6
Capecity Utilization Declines 20X                          12.0                    13.6
Crude/Refined Product Ratio DecLines 5X                    10.7                    14.2
t Crude/Refined Product Price Ratio DOclins 10X              5.4                     11.4
6.7. The rehabilitation of the visbreaker unit would ameliorate the yield pattern of the refinery by
reducing the output of excess fuel oil and increasing the output of scarce diesel oil (see Table 2.2).
Together with the other rehabilitation measures, this will increase the overall yields of the refinery from
the present 92.6 percent to 95.5 percent, reduce the purchase of spare parts and materials through
increase maintenance and debottleneck the processing capacity of the refinery to an average operation of
about 550,000 tons per year. Taking 1999 as an example, the composite ton of crude oil processed with
the Phase I configuration would be worth US$11.8 per ton more than direct import of products (gross
refining margin). With fixed operating costs of US$5.6 per ton, the rehabilitation of the refinery will
bring about net savings of US$6.2 per ton, which will represent economic savings to the country in the
order of US$2-US$4 million annually compared with the direct import of refined products. The addition
of a thermal cracking facility under Phase U will further improve refinery yield patterns by converting
more fuel oil into middle distillates. The gross refining margin will increase to US$20.2 per ton and the
economic benefits over the import of refined products to US$14.6 per ton, generating additional benefits
of US$5.0 million per year compared with only Phase I.
6.8.   Another simulation was carried out to assess the profitability of the rehabilitation of the refinery
over the direct import of refined products taking into account the price fluctuations observed over the past
six years. The results, detailed in Annex 6.1, show that operation of the refinery under Phase I and
Phase U configurations would have been less costly to the country that direct import of products, while
the present configuration of the refinery gives negative results. Phase I configuration would have
incurred losses only under the depressed relative prices prevailing in 1986 and 1987. Phase II
configuration would have proven to be more resilient and would have made an economic loss only in
1986.
6.9    As mentioned in para. 2.13, the petroleum terminal in Toamasina is a weak link in Madagascar's
supply system. Because of insufficient water depth, oil tankers moor using anchors and cables at some



- 30 -
distance from the petroleum jetty, in the middle of the general cargo area, and are loaded/unloaded
through flexible hoses. These operations pose unusually high collision, explosion and environmental
hazards, involving risks far above levels acceptable by international standards. They may also result in
hydrocarbon spillage. In addition, loading/unloading operations are slow and result in high lay times and
demurrage payments for visiting oil tankers. For environmental and safety reasons, it is therefore
desirable to transfer the present oil handling operations away from the main cargo area. The new
terminal would also fit well in Madagascar's new strategy of opening up the petroleum sector. By
improving safety and environmental standards of oil handling operations, the proposed terminal would
make Madagascar more attractive for foreign petroleum operators and would foster increased competition
from foreign suppliers. In addition to the above safety, environmental and competition considerations,
the new terminal has certain quantifiable economic benefits in terms of reductions in transport costs, with
an economic rate of return estimated at about 13 percent. These benefits would accrue from the reduced
freight costs incurred with the larger 80,000 dwt crude tankers that could be accommodated in the new
location; from reduced ship loading/unloading times, with resulting savings in demurrage costs; from
lower insurance premia; and from increased maneuvering flexibility for non-petroleum cargo in the
existing port. The assumptions used in the calculations are presented in Annex 6.2, while sensitivity
results to changes in the main variables are summarized in the table below.
Table 6.2
New Petroleum Loading/Unloading Fadlity at Toamasina
Economic Rates of Return- Sensitivity Analysis
.............                                                             M ,,C  
Base Case                                                12.5              12.5
Project Cost Increases 20%                               10.2              10.3
Savings in transport cost reduced in 20%                 10.6              10.6
Savings in supply premium reduced in 20%                 12.3              12.4
No benefits for the present port                         9.3                9.3
6.10   The LPG Promotion Program will finance the replacement of key storage and distribution
equipment that has reached an end of its useful life. Without the investments included in the project,
consumption of LPG is expected to decline from the present low level and be replaced by the use of
woodfuels, with negative environmental consequences. The project will also finance rehabilitation of
existing filling plants, and new storage tanks and equipment that would allow an increase in consumption
to about 6000 tons in year 2000. It should be noted that this level of consumption is still low even by
African standards, and that further increases would only be possible as a result of the addidonal
investments that are expected from the private sector. However, the development of the LPG market
on a large scale is not expected to be a priority for the private investors and may take some time to
develop. The economic rate of return of the proposed LPG program is about 27 percent. Sensitivity
analysis indicates that this rate of return declines to 20 percent if demand is 20 percent lower than the
one that is projected. The details of the economic analysis and sensitivity calculations are presented in
Annex 6.3.



- 31 -
6.11   The rehabilitation of the refinery, the new petroleum loading/unloading facility at Toamasina and
the LPG Promotion Program represent about 80 percent of the total investments of the project. The rest
consists of repairs to existing facilities (storage tanks, unloading terminals), replacement of essential
equipment that has reached an end of its useful life (tank wagons, pipelines) and spare parts, for which
the calculation of an economic rate of return is not appropriate. These investments are necessary to
maintain the present level of petroleum supply; without them demand would not be satisfied and the
normal functioning of the economy will be disrupted. To a certain extent, disruptions in the supply of
petroleum products have already occurred in Madagascar in recent years because the lack of foreign
exchange has prevented normal maintenance and the replacement of obsolete equipment in the sector.
This has had an effect on the growth rate of the country. The project will provide financing for the
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure that is urgently needed for economic growth.
Project Risks
6.12   All rehabilitation and investment works will be executed by foreign contractors and supervised
by consultants with broad experience in carrying out similar works. The Government has already
approved the crucial reforms in the pricing and tax system and promulgated the law eliminating the
monopoly of the State over the petroleum sector and the decree establishing the rules for private operators
to open distribution stations. There is broad consensus in the country about the need to improve
competition in the petroleum sector and there is almost no risk that the Government will backtrack from
implementing the additional measures required. The main risk regarding the project is the inherent
business risk relating to commodity prices. An increase in oil prices could alter the global demand/supply
balance of refined products, since a movement in the supply of the latter changes more slowly than shifts
in demand. Unless marginal refineries are closed to adjust the global supply of refined products to a
decrease in demand, then an oversupply would cause prices to fall and refining margins to narrow. As
indicated before, the implementation of Phase II of the refinery rehabilitation program makes the project
more robust to support wide fluctuations in relative prices.
6.13   A relatively minor financial risk exists to the extent that during the first 18 months following
Phase I, the refinery would a have a very tight debt service coverage ratio. This condition is principally
a result of increases in working capital owing to greater capacity utilization and from the need to finance
initial stocks of raw materials, which previously were borne by SOLIMA's distribution department. It
is expected that the refinery would finance this incremental working capital through short-term borrowing,
and in so doing would also be able to cover its obligations on principal repayments. Another risk relates
to the availability of private sector funds to complete Phase U of the rehabilitation program for the
refinery. This risk is substantially reduced after the completion of Phase I, which will have converted
the refinery into a profitable entity, able to compete against imports in a non-subsidized environment.
Also, private operators will already be participating in the domestic distribution markets and will be
interested in owning a share of the least cost supply source for their sales in Madagascar and other islands
of the region. The privatization process through the selling of shares allows the tapping of funds from
various sources, which also reduces risks, and contributes to promote the competition objectives of the
project.
VII. Agreements and Recommendations
7.1    During negotiations, the following agreements have been reached:
(a)   the Government will: (i) onlend to SOLIMA up to a maximum of US$33.3 from the
proceeds of the Credit at an 8 percent interest rate for a period of 20 years, including a
5-year grace period, for which SOLIMA will bear the foreign exchange risk; and (ii)



- 32 -
make available to SOLIMA on a grant basis up to a maximum of US$14.9 million (para.
4.21);
(b)   the Government shall submit before June 30, 1994, a proposal for the restructuring of
SOLIMA and thereafter implement said proposal (para. 4.7);
(c)   the refinery shall be separated from the rest of SOLIMA and established as a separate
joint-stock company ('soci&t6 anonyme') under commercial law, and wholly-owned by
SOLIMA (paras. 3.6 and 4.7);
(e)   the Government shall submit before March 30, 1994, a study for the establishment and
operation of a system of open access by all operators to key infrastructure petroleum
facilities and thereafter shall implement the recommendations of said study (para. 4.7);
(f)   the Government shall submit before June 30, 1994, a study for the establishment and
operation of a Petroleum Regulatory Authority and thereafter shall take all necessary
steps to establish said authority (para. 4.7);
(g)   the procurement of crude oil and products shall be done through competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA and SOLIMA shall furnish to the Association for its review
the bidding documents related thereto; in addition, once the supplier has been selected,
SOLIMA shall frnish to the Association a copy of the bid evaluation report (para. 3.10);
(h)    a mid-term review will be undertaken by December 31, 1995 and will cover, among
other aspects, the following: (i) an assessment of the restructuring of SOLIMA and of
the operations of the refinery; (ii) the functioning of the competitive market in the
petroleum sector; (iii) the pricing and taxation of petroleum products; and (iv) the overall
implementation of the petroleum sector reform program in relation to the agreed
performance indicators (para. 4.35);
(i)    SOLIMA and the refinery company that will be established as a separate entity will: (i)
employ qualified and independent external auditors; (ii) send to the Association, not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year, audited financial statements that would
comprise audits of the project accounts, including the Special Account and the Statement
of Expenditures; (iii) maintain a debt service coverage ratio of a least 1.0 in FY95 and
of 1.5 starting in FY96 and every year thereafter; and (iv) obtain the approval of the
Association before malking capital investments larger than US$2.0 million (paras. 3.5,
4.27 and 5.8);
U)    the Ministry of Energy and Mines will send to the Association no later than six months
after the end of each calendar, audited project accounts which will include audits of the
Special Account and of the Statement of Expenditures (para. 4.27);
(k)    upon completion of the first phase of the rehabilitation of the refinery, SOLIMA wDI
transfer this faciity and all assets and liabilies relating thereto to its wholly-owned
subsidiary, SOLIMA Refinery (para. 4.8);
(1)    on an annual basis, the Government will exchange views with the Association with
regard to petroleum product prices and taxes and establish and maintain said prices and
taxes taking into account the results of such exchange of view (para. 2.16);



- 33 -
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
7.2   The following conditions of effectiveness have been reached:
(a)   the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and SOLIMA shall have been
executed (para. 4.21);
(b)   the Project Coordinator within the Ministry of Energy and Mines shall have been
appointed under terms of reference acceptable to the Association (para. 4.22);
(c)    SOLIMA shall have employed a qualified Project Manager, a Mechanical Engineer and
an Accountant, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and SOLIMA
shall have employed an engineering consultant to assist it in the management of the
project (para. 4.22);
(d)   final bidding documents for the rehabilitation of the refinery shall have been received by
the Association and found acceptable (para. 4.22);
(e)   standard bidding documents for the procurement of crude oil shall have been adopted by
the Government and SOLIMA (para. 3.10).
Conditions for Disbursenents
7.3   Mhe following condition of disbursements have been reached:
(a)    disbursements of funds for the rehabilitation of the refinery shall be made only after the
team of experts that will manage the refinery during a transition period has been hired
(paras. 3.3 and 4.8);
(b)    disbursements of funds for works related to the basic improvements in petroleum storage
and transport will be made only after the Government: (i) has established the open access
system and the petroleum regulatory authority with operating rules satisfactory to the
Association (para. 4.7); and (ii) the Government has taken all steps required to allow
refined petroleum products prices to reflect regional differences in transport and storage
costs (para. 2.14);
(c)    disbursements of funds for works related to the new petroleum loading/unloading facility
at Toamasina will be made only after the Government: (i) has reached agreement with
IDA on the implementation of a satisfactory mitigation plan (para. 4.38); (ii) a
convention on the modalities for the execution of the works and the use of the new
facility has been signed between SOLIMA and SEPT (para. 4.15); (iii) the refinery has
been established as a SOLIMA subsidiary, the restructuring plan for the rest of SOLIMA
has been adopted and the Government has taken all steps required to allow the
participation of private sector capital in SOLIMA's refinery (para. 4.7) and (iv) the
import of refined products has been liberalized (para. 4.4).
7.4    With the above agreements, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 36.7 million
(US$51.9 million equivalent) on standard terms.






Pblfiy Eiwgy                                                                   Pebtleum Producn
Crude                  Hydro                                                                                              Ukw
01       cow        Enrgy  Fudwod    Begs. Chmcoel  Elmth*y    LPG G_ocine K                   Gm al  Fuel       Todl  Tols
Gros Supply
Producon                                     29A      29095.7      72.9                                                                          309
Impols                 209.9     3.8                                                            1.1    16.5    24.    1132              1A.4   449.1
Eqxwo                                                                                                                            -87     -67     -87        t
Shock Ch"m              13SS                                                                  -0.1      S.4   -0.5    -1.4       7.5      a9    22.2       rt
Tosl AvmAble            3032      3.           29.4    2905.7       72.9                          1     19.9    24.1   111.8  -79.5    77.3  3462.3 S        o
Conversion3 
PouRsoni             -293.5                                                                    2.6    73.1    32.3    66.6   116.9   203.5          0  a
Poem gwrdaon                                -29.4                 -10.5               64.9                             -30.3   -14.7                0Ft W   0 ;
Chrpcod    -                                          -219.1               219.1                                                                   000 o      n 
r. "-  Ft Enl
Irl.n Cons. & Wsse     -9.7                          -1051.3                         -11.9                                                    -1072.9u 0 o
Not SupplyAwveble                 3.6                  1725.3       62.4   219.1         73      3.6      93     56.4   150.1    22.7   325   2409.40 Pt 
Consumpuon by S9cbor                                                                                                                                  rl _t
Induky & MIkig                   3                       204       62.4      5.4      32.3      0.2              3.5    30.4    14.4    48.5   34.4Ao   0
Transport                                                                                                93     20*    103.8      4.1   221.7   221.  'O
Agrhut                                                                                                                     4                4       4
Housholds                                               1484               1674       25.4      2.9              32                      34.9  1711.7      0
Ocmme& O8Svloe_                                         37.3                46.3      15.3      0.5             0.1    11.9       4.2    16.7   115.
Tobl OnsumptIon                   3.8                  1725.3       62.4   219.1         73      3.6      93     56.4   150.1    22.7   325.   2409.4        o
Source: hEM end mlssion edm s



MADAGASCAR PEROLEUM SECOR REFORM
CONSUMmIO OF PMROLEUM PRODUCIrS
1984-1991
(in thowad ts)
1984      1985       1986       1987       1988      1989       1990       1991       1992
LPG            2.4       2.7        2.7        2.5        2.5       2.6        3.1        2.8        2.6
PemIum         1.9       1.6        1.9        1.7        1.9        2.0       3.0        2.5
RSpuar        51.5       52.8      54.7       533        50.2       52.7      55.1       44         54.2
Avgu           1.0       0.7        0.7        0.7        0.7        0.7       09         0.7
let Fuel      17.2      20.7       17.8       20.2       21.8       19.0      17.5        93        49.2
Ieroe         263       27.4       29.7       29.9       28.7      30.1       34.1       32.2
DiI          127.8      1313      146.4      143.7      141.7      154.5     166.7      165.1      1787
PFel on       41.2      52.5       32.1       31.6       30.8      30.1       32.9       27.0       26.1
g,00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                  . E , ,,, .   *.... ,  . ,  * 



MADAGASCAR- Petroleum Sector Reform                     ANNEX 2.2
Depots SOLMA.
MADAGASCAR.
a  as  re a      aP- s                  a 
h                 bvvfld Oqats we famidDW   yw e t ,l -.
,__~~~~~~~~f I_ Met I  F
*~~~*. me P..f#
.                 63fF,~~~~~~~a
,MO 6



ANNELX2.3
MADAGASCAR
ZEIROLEUM~SECOR REFrORMP
RECMENDED IdROVEMENTS IN SIORAGE AND OEL MOYLEMEI
A.    Non Investment or minor investment items.
1.    Replace worn-out flexibles
2.    Equip refinery and quay with VHF radio units
3.    Check distance between mooring buoys at Mahajanga
4.    Fit steel pipe bends to avoid knuclding on ships and quays
5.    De-ballast tankers and then load
6.    Install relief valves
7.    Review barge replacement program
8     Review standards of barge maintenance
9.    Replace stand-by pump on 12" line at the refinery
10.   Investigate alternative to "fuel oil-operation' (import crude line is back-filled with
fuel-oil before the incoming tanker departs).
B.    Investient Projects
1.    Increase stock levels of refined productsl/
2.    Install communications system between the coastal depots, the inland depots, the
refinery and the head-office in Antananarivo
3.    Purchase 18 new rail tanker wagons
4.    Install "Discrete Event Model' software package to improve distribution planning
5.    Install booster pumps at Mahajanga
6.    Commission study for pantoon manifold at Mahajanga
7.    Commission study for pick-up buoy mooring at Manakara
8.    Improve standard of refits on SOLIMA tankers
9.    Replace "Isle de France" barge at Mahajanga
10.   Repair/replace 10" line from refinery to port
11.   Install new dolphin oil berth in the port of Toamasina
12.   Consider installation of marine loading arms on SOLIMA tankers
13.   Appoint an expert to appraise the storage and oil movement activities
Source:  Study for the inrovement in Production and Distribution of Refined Products-
Phase I Rept, KBC Process Technology, May 1991.
1/ Not included in the project.



T, A..c W1x
1.38
4174 d  0.52                                                 1.03 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iI                                                In  
022  0380_.                                                   FUEL aS 37              2.0
IE~~~~~~~UI~A
>.3         RtiNERY iE     1.39     2.05
.10~~~~~~~~~~~~~6. -O
2O."                                  F                                                         ~~~~~        ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.18  REGULAR  10.28    15.1
67 RON 
0.2   PREkIU         0.75     Ii1
95 RON         N
.3
7.19                                                               JET L.   l    7. 19  0.'
FREEZE  -53r C
CASOIL        15.47    22.75 
0
0
31.S4                                                                                             5                             4 
REFINEY FUEL 1.0      1.5
68.0    100
FLO~~ATES OVEN Nd Tejiw  ~~~~SOLUMA REFINERY MADAGASCAR
REFINRY REHABILITATION STUDY
PROCESS                  BASE CASE
JFEC*ICIOGY          REFINERY RUNNING PLAN
Ano. A,.   20-04-6 M.1",LAY '91



ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
'PETROLWEM SECTOR RE3FORM PROJEC`r
I- NON OR hHNOR INVESTMENT lTEMS
A- Yield Inprovement
Ni    Assure effective reformer opeation: Improve Gasoline Yield
N2    Control reformer severity and lead additon: Improve Gasoline Yield.
N3    Control gasoline RVP with Butane: Reduce giveaway.
On-grade products.
N4    4 Additional trays in C-1303. Upgrades gasoline to kerosene.
NS    Improve gasoil residue fractionation. Upgrades residue to gasoil.
N6    Install overflash loop. Improve control to increase N5 benefit.
N7    Intall superheat loop on Fl 101 atomizing steam. Improved operation.
N8    Develop alternative fuel oil market. Improved selling price for surplus fuel oil.
N9    Produce Bitumen from visbroken tar. Upgrades fuel oil. Needs P4.
B- Energy and Len Improvemnt (Unit& Andennes only)
NIO   Fix steam & hydrocarbon leaks. Reduce losses.
Nll   Reduce gas to flare, filly utilize fuel gas.
N12 |Improve finace efficiency and excess air control. Save fuel.
N13   Fix up deaerator to permit operation at design temprature: Reduce refinery wide
corrosion.
N14 Restore design vacuum to reformer RCG turbine condenser: Save fuel.



ANNE!X 2.5
Page 2 of 3
MADAGASCAR
WM s;c~REFORM PROJECT
C- Safety & ReiablUty hnprovemant
N15   Clean out the water intake area in the Canal.
N16 Clean out onsite canal water concrete pump tanks.
N17 Fit automatic remote start to diesel drive firewater pump.
NIB Modify sump strainers for cooling water/firewater.
N19 Improve access using new stairs, walkways, ladders.
N20 Install lifting beams over equipment needing regular removal
N21 All gas bottles to be chained. Unuud botlu protected.
N22 Plan to rermove or upgrade all temporary wiring.
N23   Overhaul leaking fire hydrants.
N24   Overhaul defective sfety showers.
N25 Overhaul defective firewater monitors.
N26   Consider reinforced concrete wall in front of Control Room.
N27   Adopt co_ satu color coding for lines based on contents.
N28   Install welding fluh screens.
D- General Items
N29   Improve API S rato Performance.
N30   Improve Rooovery/Disposal of Scrap Oil.
N31 Dismantle & remove redundant equipment.
N32 General review of pipe supports.
N33   Repair tank level gauges.
N34   Repair No. 6 Crude Tank Roof.
N35   Replace broken lights, tubes, fittings- especialy workshops.



ANNEX 2.S
Page 3 of 3
MADGASCAR
PLTLROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
II- INVESTMENT ITEMS
A- Yield Improvement
P1     New Reformer Catalyst and pressure reduction: Improved gasoline yield.
P2    Supplement C1303 reboiler: Upgrade gasoline to kerosene.
P3    Improve crude preheat: Help achieve NS. (Also save energy)
P4    Rehabilitate No. 2 Extension (visbreaker and bitumen complex) & install
soaker: Residue upgrading.
P5    Install gas leak detector/fuel gas scrubber: Safety and corrosion
improvements.
P6    VGO Thermal Cracker: Residue upgrading.
B- Energy and Law hnprovement (UnitA. Ancieun. only).>
P7    Replace gasoil by fuel oil as generator fuel: Cheaper fuel.
P8    Preheat deaerator feedwater: Improved operation and fuel savings.
P9    Install additional power generation and improve electrical distribution:
Needed for P4.
PlO   Intall better desig reformer charge pumps: Required for NI.
Pll   Reroute cooling water to bypass API separators: Improve effluent quality.
P12    Upgrade treatment of refinery waste water: Improve effluent quality.
Sourc:Sud for the   rovemet in Production and Distribution of Refined
Products- Phase I Report, KBC Process Technology, May 1991.



ANNE3X 2.
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFIORM  R EC
A- Petroleum Prices and Taxes- February 1993
(US cents per liter]/)
PETROLEUM             PRICE CIF           USERS PRICES
TAXES             TOAMASINA
LPG                          3.6                  16.4                 27.9a/
PREMIUM                      26.3                 14.3                  50.6
GASOLINE
REGULAR                      21.0                 13.2                  43.6
GASOLINE
KEROSENE                     0.0                  15.5                  24.8
DIESEL                       5.8                  15.5                  30.5
FUEL OIL                     n.a                   n.a                 14.92/
1/Exchange rate- USS1= FMG 1,899
Z/ Unregulated prices. The indicated price for fuel-oil is for non-special clients in
Antananarivo.
B- Fiscal Revenues from all taxes Daid by the Petroleum Sector
billion FMG    million USS
1990              7.1           4.5
1991              9.3           5.4
1992             36.7          19.8
1993             60.0          31.61/
1/ Estimated
Source: SOLIMA



ANNEX  3.1
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM
SOLIMA ORGANISATION
Finme/dI                                            ERf3  rr
Flnmnc./A~in        Persomet           Project        Operations       Distribution |ie
0                 *-
[ ]    Functlon Awich are Important to the Present Study
*-     N  be rs of the Sal_i Rain Board of Directors
(1)     The persan in this position was previously a Refinery Engineer
and  s a qualified Or Ing. in Chemical Enginering
(2)     This is a position held by a delegate frm the Personnel .Unon



MADAGASCAR
PEMTOLEUM SECTOR REFORM
CURRENT REFINERY MANAGEMENT
D I r teurta
Iin        t nnac:in  jApproviinaimnt  linforuatiqualPito
I~~~~~~~(rcrot I bComuter
Exploitation IIntnne| EtL an
[ gop retl) |           l             I       l(PIuiingteb)         (Safety)
LIlE MNAGENINT                                                                                                                               (1)
. ,.......... .................. .................................. .....................................................................  ....s............
ENIINEERING / ATESASl
Enginees              operators           Intnnmmt                                     Machine Shop        Welding
operatens             N1aellon            Electricli                                   Geral Fitting        fabrication
Machinery                                    Civil 7             Sheet Natal
Nscellanerus                                 Contractors 7
(1) Tporary Appointmnts



ANNE!X 3.
MADAGASCAR
PEROLELM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Summar of perdng Cotst of the Refier atTomna/
(US thousands)
TOTAL        LOCAL       FOREIGNZ/
Materials/Spare Parts                    3,300         300          3,000
Extnal chargesl/                         1,000           -           1,000
Taxes                                    1,400         1,400     _
Financial Charges4/                      2,200          200          2,000
Catalysts & Chemical                      700            -           700
Staff Salaries/Wages                      400          400       _
TOTAL                                    9,000         2,300        6,700
(Excluding Financial Charges)            6,800         2,100        4,700
I/ Taken from SOLIMA 'Operaing Costs' summary for 1990, exduding depreciation.
a
Z/ EsFimated foreign content.
I/ Paid to service companies outside Madagascar.
4/ Repayments on loans already incurred.



ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REF'ORM PROJECT
ASSISTANCE TO THE RESTRUCTURING OF SOLIMA
TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
1.    SOLIMA is a state owned company established by Law No. 76-021 dated June 25, 1976,
with the responsibility of implementing the policies of the Govermnent in the petroleum sector
Until recently, the import, transport, storage, transformation and distribution of petroleum
products was an exclusive monopoly of the State and SOLIMA was the only entity authorized to
undertake these activities in Madagascar.
2.    Starting in 1991, the Government of Madagascar embarked in a liberalization process of
the petroleum sector. Law No. 93/002 of January 8, 1993 allowed private operators to open and
operate distribution stations. Decree No. 93-136 of March 24, 1993 established a transition
period, going until December 31, 1995 where all operators are required to buy refined products
from the refinery at Toamasina. After this date, imports by any operator will be allowed.
3.    As part of the restructuring process of the sector, the refinery at Toamasina has been
made a separate entity. With the support all the World Bank, the refinery will be rehabilitated
to efficiently compete with inputs of refined products. The Government is committed to create
a competitive environment for the petroleum sector. For this purpose, it has decided to
restructure SOLIMA, guarantee a system of open access by all operators to certain key
infrastructure now owned by SOLIMA and establish a Petroleum Regulatory Authority. It is
envisaged that some shares of the new companies to be created from the restructuring of
SOLIMA will be sold to the private sector.
OBJECTIV
3.    The main objectives of this assignment are: (i) to explore various options and to develop
a strategy for restructuring the State Oil Company (SOLIMA); (ii) to define and develop a plan
of action which will include policy and institutional changes required to carry out the
restructuring process as well as an implementation schedule; (iii) to undertake the necessary
preparatory work for the restructuring process including the valuation of assets; and (iv) to assist
the Government and SOLIMA in all aspects of the restructuring process.
4.    The study will be developed bearing in mind that the Government objectives in the
petroleum sector are to promote liberalization, increase competition and private sector
participation and ensure the efficient use of public resources.
SCOPE OF WORK
5.     The scope of work includes the following:



ANNEX 4.1I
Page 2 of 3
Analysis of restructuring options, including the merits of breaking up of
SOLIMA into competitive companies at the distribution level, and of establishing
an independent service company to own or operate the facilities that should be
used by all operators.
Asset identification and evaluation. Estimate of the value of assets should be
done employing various methods, including Obusiness potential" or discounted
cash flow models, liquidation values and recent sales of similar facilities.
Sufficient detail should be given in these calculation to support the restructuring
process. A sensitivity analysis should be included, and value ranges should be
sugested.
Analysis of alternatives of privatization, including public offering of shares,
auctions, direct negotiations, etc.
Selection of a preferred spin-off configuration and privatization option.
Technical sistance to assist in implementing the restructuring and privatization
proces. This may include the preparation of bidding and other documents that
are required, as well as counsel and advice on the selection process and other
implementation measures.
6.     As a result of the analyses, the consultants would recommend a specific institutional
scture for SOLIMA and a plan of action for its implementation, hcluding objectives, strategy,
respon ibilities, schedule and organigram of the new companies. Ito output will be in a form
of a report with the following basic outline:
-      Objectives of the restructuring process;
*      Structural options and their evaluation;
-      Detailed prsentation of the preferred options for restructuring SOLIMA;
-      Privatization and ownership of assets. Required regulatory framework and laws.
Recommended strategy. Implementation plan.
-      Implications of the proposed restructuring and priatization on: (i) investments;
(ii) operational efficiency and human resources; Oii) human resources and
overffing; (iv) financial results, and (v) Government revenues and pricing
policy;
Transition to a new structure and steps required, including the development of
a transitional manpower program;
Asst identification and evaluation. Methodology, methods, results and sensitivity
analysis;
Recommended division of assets. Assets values.



ANNE!X 4 1
Page 3 of 3
QUALIFICATIONS
Ihe consultants for this assignment must have extensive, practical experience in the
restructring and privatizaton of state-owned enterprises in the petroleum sector (especialy in
refineries and other downstream activities). Asset valuation techniques are expected to be a
critical part of the effort, thus firms should demonstrate their capabilities In this field.
Consultants should also be qualified to support the Government and SOLIMA in the organization
of joint-stock companies ('socidtds anonymes") and the selling of shares to investors.



ANNEX 4.2
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
PErROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PRO.JECT
ASSISTANCE IN ESTABLISHING RULES FOR THE OPEN ACCESS BY ALL
OPERATORS TO KEY INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITIES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of Madagascar, with the support of the World Bank, embarked in the
reform of the publicly owned enterprises in the energy sector, focusing on the one hand on
generating an environment of open competition and on the other hanid on restructuring and
privatizing a host of commercial activities carried out by these enterprises. As a result of these
guidelines the Government has already begun the transformation process towards a more efficient
hydrocarbon sector through the deregulation of petroleum products' prices and the liberalization
in August 12, 1991 (Law 91-022) of the import, transport and distribution of lubricants. The
monopoly of the State in the conduct of these activities was eliminated by Law No. 93/002 of
January 8, 1993, which extended the liberalization to all petroleum products. Decree No. 93-136
of March 24, 1993 of the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), allowed immediate operation
of private distributors, but established a transition period up to the end of 1995 in which all
imports of gasoline, diesel and kerosene will be centralized by SOLIMA.
2.    To avoid duplication and inefficiencies in opening up the market to the private sector, a
system should be put in place that would guarantee an open but fair competition and access by
all operators to certain key infrastructure facilities.
OBJECTIVE
3.    The objective of the assignment is to assist the Government in establishing clear and
transparent rules for the access of all operators to certain key infrastructure facilities that would
promote a competitive environment in the petroleum sector.
SCOPE OF WORK
3.      The scope of work includes the following:
Work closely with the consultants hired for the design and establishment
of the Petroleum Regulatory Authority (PRA), with a view of designing
a regulatory framework fully compatible with the institution set to carry
it through.
Design of rules and regulations that would ensure the promotion and
maintenance of effective competition to: (i) prevent abuses of economic
power and thereby protect the interests of consumers and operators. For
this reason, provisions against monopolization and abuse of dominant
market position by any operator should be formulated as well as a system



ANNEX 4.2
Page 2 of 2
for resolving disputes arising therefrom; and (ii) encourage economic
efficiency in the import, refining, transport and distribution of petroleum
products in Madagascar;
Establish minimum technical, safety and environmental requirements to
be satisfied by all operators, in line with industry standards;
Identification and description of the facilities to be used by all operators.
The facilities would in particular include the petroleum terminals and
storage facilities;
Definition of formulae for fees to be paid by an operator for the use of
such facilities.The fees will take account of all costs relating to the
facilities, and provide a return on capital employed.
The level of the fees should, however, be fair and not become an
instrument for hampering market entry.
In the case of sales to the local market, the fees will be payable in
Malagasy Francs. For transit or other foreign exchange earning busines,
the fee will be payable in US dollars.



ANNEX 4.3
Page 1 of 2
ARAGASCAR
PLgOLOMSCR R13FOrRM PROllC
Z _ _ _ _ERMS_O
1.    Ibe Govrnment of Madagcar through the Ministry of Energy uad Minas (MEM) is
doviopn general policy guiddines in the petroleum sector based on the following principles:
() tke erg policy would be established within the framework of the country's macoeconomic
policy streuing the need for an open economy where price deregulation, open competition and
tle prvt  sectot would play the key roles; (ii) given the constraints on government resources,
the privte sector would play an important role in all aspects of the petroleum sector; (iii) in
order to promote optimum allocation of financial resources, prices of petroleum products would
refct their economic cosu; and (iv) pricing policy and other measures are needed to promote
enrg efficiency, consvation and environmental protection.
2.    In line with this sctor policy, the Government of Madagacar, in conjunction with the
MaCgy Potoleum Company (SOLIMA), is implementing a program for the resructuring and
privizaton of the Malaguy petroleum sector as well a putting into place an enabling
nvironmet for privst sector participation in petroleum sector activities.
3.    Consutants a  being hired to design the regulatory framework, including the draft
legislaon, upo whose approval by the Government of Madaascar, the independent regulatory
utority for the petroleum sector can be established. Consultaots ar to be hired to assist the
Osvemet of Madagasca in preparing the detaild design and organization structure of the
reuatory authority, seting up the required regulatory systems and procodures, nd establishing
the Petrolem Rgulto  Authority and making it operational.
4.     Te objUive of the signment is to assist the Government in establishing the Petroleum
Regulatory Authority and making it operational.
SCOPE OF WORK
S.    Ih conultns would be required to:
-      VWork closely with the consultants hired for the design of the regulatory
frmeorkr with the view of preparing an implementation program, identifying
he sffing needs, computer systems and other facilities;
-     Asuist the Petroleum Reglatory Authority in the recruitment of the recommended
staff and provide training;



AMNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 2
Prepare operational guidelines for the Petroleum Regulatory Authority (PRA),
which will delineate the powers and responsabilities of the PRA (especially In
keeping an open but fair market for petroleum and petroleum products), and their
interface with the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), other branches of the
Government, as well as with the corporate entities to be regulated;
Prepare clear guidelines on the process of regulation, i.e. when do the reglated
companies approach the PRA for various kinds of approvals, the medhod of
approach, the time frame that will be required by the PRA to take decisions,
etc..;
Prepare the list of information, including formas that will be required to be
submitted by the corporate entities to PRA for various kInd of deciions;
Prepare the administrative structure, budget, slary structure, source of findlng,
etc. for the PRA.



ANNEX 4.4
Page 1 of 8
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
REFINERY MANAGEMENT SERVICES CONTRACT
Contents
A1.5.1           Introduction
A1.5.2           Refinery Operation and Facilities
A1.5.3           Scope of Work
A1.5.4           Management Team
A1.5.5           Solima Representation
A1.5.6           Remuneration
Tables
A1.5.1           Refinery Facilities
A1.5.2           Profiles and Job Descriptions envisaged for Management
Team
Figures
A1.5.1            Refinery Site Overview



ANNEX 4.4
Page 2 of 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
REFINERY MANAGEMENT SERVICES CONTRACT
A1.5.1      Introduction
Solima is the state company of Madagascar responsible for oil refining and product
marketing. They own and operate a hydroskimming refinery at Tamnatave that includes
also a mothballed visbrealdng complex. They are presently in the initial phase of
recommissioning this complex and refurbishing the refinery generally.
The Government of Madagascar has decided to separate the refining and product
marketing functions into two separate sectors. It is envisaged presently that the product
marketing sector will be opened to external participation, but that the refining sector will
remain the exclusive responsibility of Solima in the immediate future.
However, in order to facilitate an improved level of operating stewardship of the
refinery and also to assist in the general rehabilitation and refurbishment programme,
Solima wish to retain an oil refining company to provide a small team of experienced
managers and technicians to manage the refinery on their behalf. The team will include
a refinery manager, and have full authority for the execution of its designated tasks.
The contract is envisaged initially for a period of 3 years, renewable on an annual basis
thereafter, subject to mutual agreement.
Solima wish also that the management team will undertake to train selected local
personnel who will ultimately take over the positions the team members will be
occupying while the contract is in force.
This document sets out the basis upon which invited companies are requested to respond
with their proposal for provision of the management services, and from which the final
contract will be developed.
A1.5.2      Refinery Scope of Services
It is envisaged that Solima will, in the immediate future, retain exclusive responsibility
for the planning and procurement of crude/products as well as operation of the refinery.
However, these two activities are to be separated into a trading division and a refining
division. The trading division will own the crude/products, supplying crude to and
accepting products from the refinery. It will also-supply any other marketing companies
operating within Madagascar with their product requirements on an import-parity
formula pricing basis. It will undertake all necessary planning and procurement
activities, although will liaise with the refinery in the formulation of its supply plans.



ANNEX 4.4
Page 3 of 8
The refinery therefore will run purely as a processing refinery, refining crude supplied
by and returning products to the trading division. It will however be responsible for the
operations associated with crude/product import/export, and also for the storage of these
materials within the refinery tank farm, and will necessarily liaise with the trading
division to coordinate the agreed refinery production plan.
The refinery will undertake all functions necessary for proper stewardship of its
facilities, including maintenance as well as operations, and will report directly to the
main Solima board. The management team's responsibilities will be limited to those of
the refinery, excluding those of the trading division.
The facilities included within the refinery are listed in Table A1.5.l. Note they include
all those facilities required for operation of the refinery, including control room,
laboratory, workshops etc. Figure Al.S.l presents an overview of the refinery site.
It is envisaged that the refinery will undergo a rehabilitation and refurbishment
programme. This programme is planned in two phases:
Phase 1     Rehabilitation of Visbreaker complex (presently mothballd)
Refurbishment of selected sections of the general  fciltids
(process, utilities and offsites).
Phase 2     Installation of thermal cracking facilities to the existing visbreakur
complex.
Phase 1 of this programme is expected to start in the near future, and the memcnt
team would be expected to participate as Solima's project representative during the
associaed works. Phase 2 will be conditional upon successful implementation of the
first phase, and also upon demonstrating acceptable performance levels by the refinery.
A1.5.3      Scope of Work (for Management Services Contractor)
The Management Services Contractor will be required to:
3.1 Structure and source an effective, resident management team to manage the
refinery on behalf of Solima.
3.2   Make available on an occasional, as-needed, basis specialist technical &
stewardship personnel (eg. metallurgist, training specialist, etc.). Need for such
services to be from the initiative of the management team, and subjec to the
approval of Solima.
3.3   Monitor the performance of their resident management team on a routine basis,
and review this with Solima.
The management team will be required to:



ANNEX 4.4
Page 4 of 8
3.4   Control all refinery activities related to the receipt, processing and storage of
hydrocarbons and the delivery of finished products to the depot. The activities
will include the planning and supervision of all operational, technical,
engineering and administradon services together with the accounting, auditing,
training and human resources functions.
3.5   Review existing refinery manning and manpower capabilities and recommend an
effective refinery organisation. Work with Solima to implement this revised
organisation.
3.6   Develop with Solima an implementation plan for introduction of local personnel
into the key management positions.
3.7  Introduce training programmes, as necessary, to improve the skills of the work
force.
3.8  Introduce international safety and environmental standards for all refining
operations and prepare a programme for their enforcement.
3.9  Introduce and enforce international industry practices and standards to improve
the efficiency, reliability, tidiness and sustainability of refining operations.
3.10  Establish an engineering workshop and reevant practices for essenal repairs
and maintenance.
3.11  Supervise maintenance of marketing company's adjacent bulk storagc facilities,
which will be undertaken on a contrct basis.
3.12  Act on refinery's behalf in worldng with the company managing the Phase 1
rehabilitation project. The refinery manager should be the single point of
contact, assisted at his discretion by other members of the management team.
A1.5.4      Management Team
4.1   The Management Contractor will assign a team of experienced individuals, who
will assume direct responsibility for their designated tasks. The team should
include the following core members:
1.    Refinery manager
2.    Operations maner
3.    Maintenance manager
4.   Instrumentation/Electrical technician
5.    Mechanical technician
Table A1.5.2 outlines the profile and job descripdon envisaged for these
positions.



ANNEX 4.4
Page 5 of 8
However, Management Services Contractor may propose additional personnel
beyond these core requirement, and any such proposal will be reviewed by
Solima on its merits.
All personnel should have the necessary professional experience to meet the
defined positions, preferably with overseas experience in a similar working
environment.
4.2   The refinery manager as the senior representative of the Management Contractor
on site will be responsible for all matters in Madagascar relating to the refinery.
All other members of the team will report ultimately to him. He will report
directly to the main Solima board.
4.3X The Management Team will be functional in the refinery before the
commencement of Phase 1 of the rehabilitation project.
4.4   A working procedure, which takes account of Solima's on-going refinery
interests during operation of the Management Services Contract, will be agreed
by Solima and the contractor.
A1.5.5      Solima Representation
Solima will nominate a senior Solima company representative to liaise on a routine basis
with the refinery manager (from Management Services Contractor), and will delegate
authority to the nominee at their discretion. However, the nominee will not be
empowered to override the authority of the refinery manager, who ultimately reports
directly to the Solima main board.
A1 .5.6     Remuneration (for Management Services Contractor)
The Management Services Contractor will be remunerated in three parts:
*     fixed fee for agreed management team
*     reimbursable costs for any extra manpower provided (and agreed to by Solima)
*     performance fee, reflecting commercial and technical and performance achieved
by refinery over the year. The commercial fee will be based upon a fraction of
the refinery's gross margin (including variable, but excluding fixed costs). The
technical fee will be based upon successful completion of an annual refinery test
run.



ANNEX 4.4
Page 6 of 8
EQUIPMENT WITHIN REFINING COMPANY AREA
Process units (all zone 'A')
Unit capaity TPD
Two stage crude fractionation unit                      1600
Wide cut kerosene + naphtha hydrotreater                 590
Semi-regen catalytic reformer unit                       250
Crude preflash section for crude unit capacity expansion  2340
Visbreaker unit                                         1080
Gasoil hydrotreater                                      515
Vacuum unit and bitumen blower                           195
Merox unit (Capacity not available)
Tankage (All zone 'A' except for bitumen storage)
6 x 25000 m3 crude storage tanks
6 intermediate gasoline blend stock tanks of total volume 5700 m3
10 proposed new finished product tanks of total volume 25000 m3
2 x 25 MT butane storage bullets
3 x 350 m3 bitumen storage tanks
Hydrogen storage
Utilities (All zone 'A')
3 package steam boilers
2 diesel generators (1 @ IMW, 1 @ 1.6 MW)
Electrical substation
Cooling water basin for water drawn from canal
Fire water basin for water drawn from canal
Raw water well
2 instrument air compressors
Other facilities (All zone 'A' other than bitumen rail loading)
Single combined process unit control room
Laboratory
Refinery stores in 3 locations (main store, chemicals store, site store)
Workshop
Gasoline lead addition facility
Bitumen rail loading facility
Flare
Fire station
API separator



PROFILES AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS ENVISAGED FOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
TITLE             IREFINERY                  IMAINTENANCE   OPERATIONS  INST/ELEQ    MECHANICAL
MANAGER                  (MANAGER                    MANAGER    TECHNICIAN  TECHNICIAN
PROFILE    AGE                    Ovr 40                     35-50                     35-45                  35-55                 35.55
OUALFICATIONS    Degree +                      B.T.ch or beter + long    Degreeo                8. Tech +             8 Toch preferred but
experince  or degtce  +                         Specialist courses    craft skiN vital.
EXPERiENCE          Over 10 yrs Refiney        Refilnery Mice.           Aefinery Opt Mgt       Mn 15 years In        Maintenance
DESIRED            management at group         background at least 10    plus knowledgc of      Instruments. Must     workshop knowledge
level                      years                     vlsbreaking, eic. Al   know pneumatics       & mgt experience
least 10 yoea          and electronic Insts,    ssential - over 15
years.
JOB           MAIN JOB            Introduce typicl Industria   Shake up Mtce Dept.     Review skils of        Continue petsent      Review work order
DESC.                             practices, codes and        and organse effective    present work force,    trainee               procedures and
standards. Assess          use of resources.         set up training        development,          workshops ptactices.
potential of existing staff  Assess potential of     programme. Set         Review spares and     Set up craftsman
and develop lmptovement   exlstng people and set    operations Irgets for   consumptlons.         grading and testing.
programme. Set targets     up trainhg schedule and   output. quality, etc.  Monitor p.m.          Assess workshop
lor ptoduction, rellability  trade testng. Review    Set work priorites for   schedules for       requirements and
site Improvement,          critical spares.          Mioc to meximise up    ffectivenss,          submit proposals fof
time and profiL                             upgrading.
REPORTS TO:         Solimna Main Board         Refinery Manager          Refinery Manager       Mice. Manaiger        Mice. Manager
0.
.o



ZONE 'A' PROCESS UNITS                                      ZONE W    PRODUCT ISTOE DEPOT
unuT WMTS                                         ZONE 0. L':      BUW ETS
CRUDE STOPAGE
PRODUCT RUWQD STORAGE
LAW/W lls ETC
ZONE r: MTWM   STRAE & LOAN F fES
ZONE 'E'                           ZONE 'AO
ZONE A'~~~~~~~~~~ON 
400 M
1400 iM-
SIUMA REFINRY. MADAGASCAR 
REFINERY & DEPOT          o
IECI*OLOOY         COMPANY SEPARATION
'A1.5.1 r'21-04-76  r Aes21



Madagascar
Petrolem Sector Reform Project
Table 1. Liberalization and Privatization of Petrolum
Detailed Costs
(US  '000)
Quantities                Unit                      Base Cost
Unit       1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  Total  Cost    1993    1994    1995   1996  1997   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Restructuring of Sollme
Subsistenc  allocation                        months          12    24    12      -     -    48        3     36.0    72.0    36.0       -     -   144.0
Travel                                         trips           2     2      2     -     -      6       4      8.0      8.0     8.0      -     -    24.0
Two foreign eprts                           staff-onths      12    24    12       -     -    48      20    240.0   480.0   240.0        -     -   960.0
Subtotal Restructuring of Sol m                                                                                284.0   560.0   204.0       -     - 1,128.0
D.  stablilsmnt of Open
Access Syst_
Subsistence allocation                        months           6     6      -     -     -    12        3     18.0    19.0        -      -           36.0
Travel                                         trips        1.5   1.5       -     -     -      3       4      6.0      6.0       -      -     -    12.0
0e foreign expert                           staffmonths        6     6      -     -      -    12     20    120.0   120.0         -      -     -   240.0
Subtotal Istablishbmnt of Open
Access Syst_                                                                                                 144.0   144.0         -     -     -   288.0
C. Regulatory Authority
Subsistence allocation                          onths         -    12       -     -     -    12        3        -    36.0        -      -     -    36.0
Travel                                         trips          -      3     -      -     -      3      4         -    12.0        -      -     -    12.0
One foreign expert                          staffeonths        -    12      -     -      -    12     20         -   240.0        -      -     -   240.0
Training                                      _zunt                                                          50.0    50.0        -      -     -   100.0
Subtotal PRgulatory Authority                                                                                   50 0   339.0         -     -     -   399.0
D. Private Managemnt of the Refinery /a          _nunt                                                       1,000.0 2,000.0 1,000.0       -     - 4,000.0
Total                                                                                                              1,478.0 3,042.0 1,284.0       -     - 5,804.0
\a Cost estimtes supplied by KC.
Tue Apr 20 li143:13 1993
0C7
O  .
Liberalization and Privatization of Petroleum Sector



Madagascar
Petroleum Sector Reform Project
Table 2. Infrastructure Isprovaments
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost
1993    1994      1995    1996    1997    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Rehabilitation of the Refinery
1. First phase
Viabreak*r                                  600.0 2,000.0          -       -        -  2,600.0
Power Generation                            400.0 1,500.0  1,500.0         -        -  3,400.0
Kinor Improvements for the Refinery /a           -   500.0    100.0   100.0   100.0    800.0
Subtotal First phase                          1,000.0 4,000.0  1,600.0   100.0   100.0  6,800.0
S. Storage and Tran port Facilities
1. Tanks and other Repairs                          - 1,000.0    500.0        -        -  1,500.0
2. Raplacemnt of Pipelines
Materials                                        -       -  1,050.0 1,050.0         -  2,100.0
Construction                                     -       -         -   950.0   950.0  1,900.0
nginering                                        -   400.0         -       -        -    400.0
Subtotal Replacement of Pipelines                   -   400.0  1,050.0 2,000.0   950.0  4,400.0
3. Rail Tankers                                     -   575.0  1,150.0   575.0         -  2,300.0
4. Minor Equipmnt for Distribution                  -   125.0    250.0   125.0         -    500.0
5. Iprovemnts in Unloading Facilities
at Mahajanga and Manakara                         -   500.0  1,000.0 1,000.0   500.0  3,000.0
6. Hydrographic and Other Studies               100.0   100.0    100.0        -        -    300.0
Subtotal Storage and Transport Facilities          100.0 2,700.0  4,050.0 3,700.0 1,450.0 12,000.0
C. Petroleum Loading/Unloading
Facility at Toamasina                               - 1,000.0  3,000.0 4,000.0 5,000.0 13,000.0
D. Gas Promotion Program
1. LPG Tanks and Other  gquipmnt                273.9   551.1  1,098.9 1,098.9   277.2  3,300.0
2. Rail Tankers                                  58.1   116.9    233.1   233.1    59.8    700.0
3. Trucks and Other Vehicles                     83.0   167.0    333.0   333.0    84.0  1,000.0
4. Spare Parts                                   83.0   167.0    333.0   333.0    84.0  1,000.0
Subtotal Gas Protion Progrm                        498.0 1,002.0  1,998.0 1,998.0   504.0  6,000.0
Total                                                 1,598.0 8,702.0 10,648.0 9,798.0 7,054.0 37,800.0
\& Refurbishing of instruments, upgrading of boiler feedwater systm, and small process iXproiement projects.
Tue Apr 20 11:43:21 1993
OtQ 
ha 
0.-
O  .
tn
Inrastructur- Improvements



Pbaoacar
Petrolum Sector Reform Project
Table 3. Project Preparation and Coordination
Detailed Coats
(US$ 000)
Quantities               unit                   Same Coat
Unit      1993  1994  1995  1994  1997  Total Coat   1993   1994  1995  1994  1997   Total
I. Investwat Coats
A. Project Nzaagmnt Consultant    staffmnths          -    12    12   12   12    43        20        -240.0 240.0 240.0 240.0  960.0
S. Training                           at   ntbs       6     -     -      -     -     6     20    120.0     -     -      -     -   120.0
C. Refunding of PPF                    amunt                                                   1  I00 0    -     -      -     - 1,500.0
Total                                                                                               1, 0240. 200  240.0              22580.0
Tue Apr 20 11:43:27 1993
O .d
0*
Ph  in
Project Prepration and Coordination



Petroleum Setor Reform Project
Dislbursmnt Accounts by Frnanciers
(Us$ *000)
Governnt                      International
of                         Devolomnt                                  local   Duties
Mtdagascar       sline         Association         Total         ror.    (lacd.      a
Amunt    I                                *Ant    I  Aat    I  pant    t  2xch.    Taxes)   Taxes
works                  1,634.3   5.4  1,197.6   4.0  27,332.7  70.6  30,165.1  54.6  27,332.7  2,032.3          -
sea" and tquwint             -     -    565.3   3.7  14,752.0  96.3  15,317.8  27.7  14,752.0    565.8
Conulting Services           -     -         -     -   8,303.1 100.0   3,303.1  15.0   7,849.5    453.5
nding Of                     -     -        -      -    ,500.0 100.0   1,500.0   2.7   1,500.0          -       -
Total                     1,634.8   3.0  1,763.4   3.2  51,667.3  93.9  55,236.0 100.0  51,434.3  3,851.7          -
Tue Apr 20 11:43:56 1993
lb 
O >
C .
Disbursent Accounts by Financiers



Madagascar
Petroleum Sector Reform Project
Component5 by Financiers
(USS '000)
Governmnt                     International
of                         Develojent                                  Local   Duties
Madagascar        Solima       Association          Total         For.    (Excl.      &
Amount    t    Amount    *      Amount    I      Amount    *      Exch.    Taxes)   Taxes
1. Liberalization 4 Privatization of Petroleum Sector             -     -         -     -   6,670.1 100.0   6,670.1  12.1   6,216.6    453.5          -
2. Infrastructure Imrovments                               1,634.8   3.6  1,763.4   3.8  42,430.0  92.6  45,828.2  62.9  42,430.0  3,396.2            -
3. Project Preparation and Coordination                           -     -         -     -   2,787.7 100.0   2,787.7   5.0   2,787.7           -       -
Total Disburs_mnt                                              1,634.8   3.0  1,763.4   3.2  51,887.6  93.9  55,286.0 100.0  51,434.3  3,851. 7           -
Tue Apr 20 11:44:02 1993
0.
L n
Components by Financiers



Madagascar
Petrolem Sector Reform Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US8 '000)
Govern_ent                    International
of                         Developent                                   Local   Duties
Madagascar        Solim         Association         Total          For.    (Excl.      6
Amount    8    Amount    8      Amount  _        Amount    8       Exch.    Taxes)   Taxes
I. Investmnt Costs
A. Civil Works              1,634.8   5.2  1,083.1   3.4  28,736.4  91.4  31,454.2  56.9  28,736.4  2,717.8            -
B. Equipent                       -     -    680.4   4.8  13,348.4  95.2  14,028.7  25.4  13,348.4    680.4           -
C. Consulting Services            -     -         -     -   9,554.9 100.0   9,554.9  17.3   9,101.4    453.5           -
D. Training                       -     -         -     -     248.2 100.0      248.2   0.4      246.2         -        -
Total Disbursent                 1,634.8   3.0  1,763.4   3.2  51,887.8  93.9  55,286.0 100.0  51,434.3  3,851.7            -
Tue Apr 20 11:44:07 1993
Io-
O e
Zq d t rvAcat  by  clnml rn



Petroum Sector 8f1am   rOct
Promarint A,ccounts by Financiers
(U4 '000)
Governnt                      international
of                         Develo t                                   Locel   Dutios
a                sollm        Assciation          Total         for.    lDc1.       a
munt    I    Ant                Amount    *     Aont    t          WAc.    Taxes)   Taxes
A. Wrks
1. IdLbilit tioa
Viabreaker                                         -     -    146.4   4.9   2,828.9  95.1   2,975.3   5.4   2,828.9    146.4          -
R_irr of Taks                                      -     -    170.9   9.8   1, 5".0  90.2   1,739.9   3.1   1 568.0    170.9          -
llcnmlt of Pipeline                                -     -    525.5   9.9   4,792.1  90.1   5,317.6   9.6   4,792.1    525.5          -
LoAdingiomloadiag facilities
at Realeaga mad Namakara                         -     -    354.8   9.9   3,239.7  90.1   3,594.5   6.5   3,239.7    354.8          -
Petrolesm LoTd'sgjloading
facility at Tomaaim                       1,634.8   9.9         -      -  14,904.0  90.1  16,538.8  29.9  14,904.0  1,634.8         -
Subtotal Works                                     1,634.8   5.4  1,197.6   4.0  27,332.7  90.6  30,165.1  54.6  27,332.7  2,832.3          -
3. Goods
1. Equipmt, Machinery and Spare Parts
Par Generation                                     -     -    194.0   4.9   3,748.8  95.1   3,942.9   7.1   3,748.6    194.0          -
Minor Squipment and Spar. Parts
for the Refinery                                 -     -     46.3   4.9      894.5  95.1     940.7   1.7      694.5     46.3        -
Rail Tankers                                       -     -    267.4   9.9   2,445.8  90.1   2,713.3   4.9   2,445.8    267.4          -
Minor Equipmnt and Spar Parts
for Diatribution                                 -     -     58.1   9.9      531.7  90.1     5S9.8   1.1      531.7     59.1        -
9quipment and Vehicles for LPG Progrm              -     -        -      -   7,131.1 100.0   7,131.1  12.9   7,131.1
Subtotal Goods                                           -     -    565.8   3.7  14,752.0  96.3  15,317.8  27.7  14,752.0    565.8          -
C. Consultancies /a
1. Technical Assistance and Training
Restructuring Soline                               -     -        -      -   1,298.7 100.0   1,298.7   2.3   1,298.7         -
Establishment of Oen Access Syst_                  -     -        -      -     327.4 100.0      327.4   0.6     327.4        -
Regulatory Authority                               -     -        -      -     332.0 100.0      332.0   0.6     332.0        -
Renaginnt of the Refinery                          -     -        -      -   4,598.4 100.0   4,598.4   8.3   4,144.9    453.5
Training                                           -                           248.2 100.0     248.2   0.4      248.2
Subtotal Technical Assistance and Training            -     -         -     -   6,804.6 100.0   6,804.6  12 .3   6,351. 1    453.5
2. Design and Supervision
Hydrographic and Other Studies                     -     -        -      -     345.3 100.0      345.3   0.6     345.3        -
Project Managemnt                                  -     -        -      -   1,153.2 100.0   1,153.2   2.1   1,153.2
Subtotal Design and Supervision                       -     -         -     -   1,498.4 100.0   1,498.4   2.7   1,498.4
Subtotal Consultancies                                   -     -         -     -   8,303.1 100.0   8,303.1  15.0   7,849.5    453.5
D. Miscllaneous
Refunding of PPF                                      -     -         -     -   1,500.0 100.0   1,500.0   2.7   1,500.0
Subtotal Miscellaneous                                   -               -   _     1,500.0 100.0   1,500.0   2.7   1,500.0
Total                                               1,634.8   3.0  1,763.4   3.2  51,887.8  93.9  55,286.0 100.0  51,434.3  3,851.7          -
\a Coaultants  services should be selected in accordance with Rerld Iank. Guidelines: Use of Consultants by
World bank Borrowers and by the World Dank as Executing Agency (Wbshington, D.C., August 1992).
Tue Apr 20 11:44:14 1993
0)
0'.7 |
m N3
o
t'h Ln
Procuremnt Accounts by Financiers



Madagascar
Petrolem Sector Reform Project
Project Cost Smiary
(IGF Million)                                (US$ '000)
*    Total                                I    Total
Foreign  Base                             Foreignk Base
Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange Costs  Local Foreign   Total   Exchange Costs
1. Liberalization A Privatization of Petrolem Sector    650.0   9,196.8   9,866.8          93   13    400.0  5,404.0  5,804.0        93   13
2. Infrastructure IWrovwints                            4,777.0  59,403.0  64,260.0        93   2  2,810.0 34,990.0 37,600.0        93   62
3. Project Prpration and Coordination                         -   4 386.0   4 386.0       100     6        -  2,580.0  2,580.0      100     6
Total WPBLDIL 0STS                                         5,457.0  73,055.8  78,512.8        93  100  3,210.0 42,974.0 46,184.0        93  100
Physical Contingencies                                     656.2   0,045.1   8,701.3        92   11    386.0  4,732.4  5,11B.4        92   11
Price Contingencies                                      1,970.1  25,572.5  27.542.7        93    35    255.7  3,727.9  3,983.6       94     9
Total PIWCC:T aSTS                                         8,083.3 106,673.4 114,756.7        93   146  3,851.7 51,434.3 55,286.0       93  120
Tue Apr 20 11:44:28 1993
0t
ID 
to



letrolmn Sector rmfom Prolect
Projct cot samry
(lN milliona)                                  (US$ 'OG)
I     Total                                *     Total
Foreign  mase                               Boeg    ase
Local   Poreign    Total   t a       CoatCs   Local  Foreigp   Total      c       Costs
I. Investet Coats
A. Civil lrtk              3,791.0  39,895.0  43,690.0         91    56  2,230.0 23,470.0 25,700.0         91    56
S. 3pmuint                   986.0  19,074.0  20,060.0         95    26    580.0 11,220.0 11,900.0        95   26
C. Conultiag Services        660.0  13,706.6  14,338.8         95   12    400.0  3,064.0  0,464.0         95   16
D. Training                      -      374.0     374.0       100     -        -    220.0    220.0       100     -
Total BasKLM  CTS               5,457.0  73,055.6  76,512.6         93       100 3,210.0 42,974.0 46,134.0      93   100
Ebynical Cetinacies             654.2   3,045.1   8,701.3         92    11    366.0  4,732.4  5,118.4        92    11
Price CoRtiaGciea             1,970.1  25,572.5  27,542.7         93    35    255.7  3,727.9  3,793.6        94      9
Total PS3BT OTS                 8,003.3 106,673.4 114,756.7         93   146  3,651.7 51,434.3 55,286.0         93   120
Tue Apr 20 11:44:34 1993
0*
O  .m
Project Coat Su_ry



Madagascar
Petroleum Sector Reform Project
Exponditure Accounts by Components
(USS '000)
Liberalization
&                            Project
Priwvatization                   Preparation                  Physical
of Petroleum   Infrastructure       and                   Contingencies
Sector       Iwrov_nnts   Coordination    Total          9   Amunt
1. Investmnt Costs
A. Civil Wbrks                           -        25,700.0              -   25,700.0   12.5 3,220.0
S. Equipnt                               -        11,800.0              -   11,S00.0   10.0 1,100.0
C. Consulting Services             5,704.0           300.0        2,460.0    1,464.0    8.2   696.4
D. Training                          100.0               -          120.0      220 0   10 0    22 0
Total UMLDIt CTS                        5,004.0        37,800.0        2,500.0   46,134.0   11.1 5,118.4
P'ysical Contingencies                  560.4         4,430.0          105.0    5,111.4       -       -
Prie Contingencies                      285.7         3.5W 2            99.7    3,983.6   10.7   424.9
Total PFINJCT CS                        6,670. 1       45,828.2        2,787.7   55,286.0   10 0 5,543.3
Taxes                                                       -              -           -      -       -
foreign Exchange                     6,216.6         42,430.0        2,767.7   51,434.3   10.0 5,123.6
Tue Apr 20 11:44:40 1993
P rn
(0 
o u
Expenditure Accounts by Comonents



Petroleum  bector  faom  Project
Proloct C_.unta by Year
(WI  0001
Base Coat
1993     1994     1995     1994    1997    Total
1. Liberalization A PrlwatiZatioR of Petroleum Sector   1,478.0  3,042.0  1,284.0         -       -  5,104.0
2. Irfrastructure I _r    nts                            1,596.0  0,702.0 10,643.0  9,796.0 7,054.0 37,800.0
3. Project Prqpration aU d Coordiation                  1,620.0    240.0   240.0   240.0  240.0  2,580.0
Total 3A5Lf1  COT                                           4,696.0 11,9S4.0 12,172.0 10,036.0 7,294.0 46,134.0
Pbynical Contingencies                                      319.6  1,249.4  1,367.2  1,203.8  979.4  5,118.4
Price Contingenci-s
In! latiom
Loacal                                                  12.4   174.5   296.1   332.5  343.4  1,153.9
Foreign                                                 63.7   593.1   904.5  1,06.2 1,030.5  3,727.9
Subtotal Inflation                                         76.0   767.6  1,200.6  1,413.7 1,423.9  4,386.3
Devaluation                                               -9.9  -152.3  -242.6  -252.2  -246.2  -903.2
Subtotal Price Contim9enc:ea                                 66.2   615.2   956.0  1,166.5 1,177.7  3,963.6
Total PRtCT  TS                                             5,031.3 13,347.6 14,497.2 12,406.3 9,451.1 55,286.0
Taxes                                                          -         _        _        _       _        _
Foreign lachange                                         4,914.3 12,934.5 13,464.2 11,455.5 3,613.9 51,434.3
Tue Apr 20 11:44:46 1993
0 VI
t-C
Projec t Conta by Tear



ANNEX 4.5
Page 12 of 13
*4     *  4 Og1
4 i ~~~* -| --@
CO   ~     *4 
S}0     ge4
O   4 O4f X
O  i.*
S  R 
8 j4 - 4 
a  vT" 



madagascar
Petroleumi sector Bafozm Project
Expenditure Accounts breakdown
(Us$ 1000)
Phyaical
base    Cent.
Costs +    Plus
Base Coot                    Phyxical Constl6nVenciea              Price Conting nci.s                   Total Incl. Cont.               Price    Price
Local  Duties                       LocalDt.                            Local  Duties                        Local  Duties               Cont. on Cent. on
For.    lEadl.    &                  for.   (Kidl.   a                   For.   (RKId.   4                   For.   (Ridl.    6                     Rase   Physical
Rich.   Taxes)  Taxes   Total          Rxch.  Taxes) Taxes   Total    Rich.  Taxes) Taxes   Total    Rxch.   Taxes)  Taxes   Total                  Costs    Cont.
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                23,470.0 2,230.0           25,700.0  2,932.0  208.0           - 3,220.0  2,334.4  199.68           2,534.2  26,736.4 2,717.8          - 31,454.2  27,941.0  3,513.2
D. Equipmnt                  11,220.0   560.0          -11,600.0  1,122.0   53.0           - 1,180.0  1,006.4   42.4           -1,048.7  13,348.4   600.4           -14,028.7  12,753.4  1,275.3
C. Consulting Services         6,064.0   400.0         -8,464.0    656.4   40.0             -   696.4    3S1.0   13.5          - 394.5   9,101.4   453.5            -  9,554.9   6,822.6    732.3
D. Training                      220.0         -       -     220.0      22.0        -            22.0        6.2       -       -      6.2      246.2        -       -     246.2       225.6      22.6
Total                              42,974.0 3,210.0          -46,164.0  4,732.4  386.0           -5,118.4  3,727.9  255.7            -3,903.6  51,434.3 3,651.7           -55,266.0  49,742.6  5,543.3
Tue Apr 20 11:45:07 1993
I-
o   I
Expenditure Accounts Breakdown



MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Liberalization and Privatization     Base Cod Procurement         1994           1995            1996            1997            1998
of Petroleum Sector             US$Mn.    Method    01 Q2 Q3 04  Q1 Q2 Q3 04  Q1 Q2 Q3 04  Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4  Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Restructuring of Solima                $1.1       Other
Open Access System                     $0.3       Other
Regulatory Authorit                    $0.4       Other
Private Management of the Refinen      $4.0       Other
OQ 
(Dm
x
I-
o0.
Fh as~
o'



MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Bane Cod Proctuemat         1994            195            1996            1997           1998
Infrastructure Improvmeuts          USS Mn.    Method    Q1 Q2 Q3 04  01 02 Q3 04 Q1 02 03 04  Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4  Q10 2 Q3 04
Rehabilitation of the Refier,
Visbreankr                           $2.6       ICB
Power Gnaeration                    $3.4        ICB
Minor Eqpeat ad Spare Part          $0.8   LlB/ntl Shop/
for the Refinery                        Diroct Contract
Storap and flhmot Facdities
Tanks and Other Repirn              $1.5        ICB
Replacement of PipeiHne
Engineering                       $0.4        ICB
Materials                         $2.1        ICB
Consuction                        $1.9        ICB
Rail Tankers                        $23         ICB
Minor Equipment and Spare Pat       $0.5        LIB/
for Distnbution                        Intl Shopping
Improvements in Unloading Facilities    $3.0    ICB
at Mahajan  and Manakara
Hydrograpic and Other Studies       $03        Other
Petrolm  Loading/Unloading Facilty
at Toamussna                      $13.0       ICB
LPG Promotion ProzSm                  $6.0      ICB/LIB/
__Int_ Itl Shopping  __



MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Prect Prepartion ad Coordination Base      Procurement       1994          1995     1    1996            1997
Us$ M.   Method   Q1 Q2 Q3 04  QlQ 0 3 04 Ql Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql 02 Q3 Q4
Project ManaaemeniTrainint          Sl.l      Other                                       .............
Refunding of PPF         S1.5                 Other                                 3                            j_l_______
o.
0%



MADAGASCAR
measures           lot *ameter    2nd semster  | lst uin.tor            2nd s*amster     lst *ameter        2nd smuter        lot smster | 2nd
s atredy taken           1993             1993       I      1994       1       1994      1       19f               199f       I     1996       semester
1   1 1         1                 1                 I___   ___   ___    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1996
A-        A_F__
1-  Pricing  nd           MeN suYt_m
taxation reform      *ffective from
______ ______ _____ JuLy     1992      _   _  _ _ _     _  _  _ _  _ _
2.  ELiainmtion of       App r     d         Distribution                                                                                               Private
State mo poly.        Jinuwry 1993      ap   to                                                                                                     eewtor is
S ator oaFn to       (Law 93/02)        private                                                                                                    aLLowd to
private soetor                          operators.                                                                                                  Ifpt
participation                           Decree No.                                                                                                  rf i ad
93-136 of                                                                                                  prodetr
Ministry of
ErwY
3-  Competitive           Implternt d in
bidding for           January 1993
petrotoum
*wd,es  s                _       _       _        _                           _
I4- eamtructurLng
corpwratization
nd privatizatian
of SOLIMA
a)  tefinery              Separation        Cen uLtants      Consuttants       LegL                                Conruttants        Shares sold to
aprov d by         iwfited to      exomina ltgl   estabtl shment                         examine alL        private sector
Soard of          *ubodt            nd physicat    of joint-stock                        aap ets
Directors in      propo ar         issues            capw                                relatd to
Nerch 1993                                                                               seL-ing to
shares
shares soLd to
b)  Rest of the                             Conaultants      Consultants      Restructuring      Lega                                 private oltor
C_R                                     invfited to      hired            study is           oetbt lisment
asubit                            submitted          of joint-
propeolrt                                            stock
(sim,es                                             cooanies
refit nery)
0 0
Mi
0'%



Measures         lst samster    2nd smoter    lst smater            2nd samester    1st sameeter      2nd aaseter       1st samester   2nd
already taken         1993            1993              1994             1994             1995              199S            1996       smter
1996
5. Establishmmnt of                                       Cmuultants       Consultants       oprn accs
rules for pn                                          imvited to       submit study      syt_  is
aces syst_m to                                        aa.i t                             impLemanted
cewtain                                                   '"oii
infrrtructure                                           r        nd
6.  PetroLsum                                             Consultants      Consultants       Regulatory
egulatory                                             hired            subit study       Authority
Aority                                                                                   established
1-  abfailtatfon of
Ref irury
a) Phase I               Studies          Call for        Proposals        Rehabilitation                                      Rehabilitation
coWleted         prpsls to    ealuated an    wrks started                                              wks
ecute           contrect                                                             cpleted
Pi as             wra
b)  Phaae If             Feasibility                                                                         StuHsor
study                                             Conultants                         Completed                          started
coltated                                          luwitad to                         (reults
oAhult                            nsadad for
propoesls for                     privatization)
ensinse"ini
studios
2.  Repi r of tds        Anslysis                         Call for         ProposaL          Works started                     WMors on tw*s
Nd rpla ent          Includd In                       proposals        evaluated  d                                         corplated
of pipelins          rpoVrt of                                         contract
consultants      ___                                                                                                    _d
3.   hase of rail                         CalL for        Propsls                                             Deliver  of                                       Deliver  of
tal*sr                                proposls         eluated rd                                         aqipmant                                            ipmant
contract                                           starts                                            coopleted
4. NW                    Feasibility      EiwionsLnt l  Call for                             Studies                            Works started
loadinruAtlosding    study            studies         proposals for                      coepleted.
facility at         completed         complated       detailed                           Call for
Tommnsins                                             engineering                        proposals for
studies nd                        works
bidding
doum_nts
D |



Neesre            1st seat r           Smater nst einter             2nd semmter      lot _mmter        2nd smeste        lost smat:r  2nd
*lre_d  ten           1993             1993              1994             19W4              1995             1995             1994       semester
1994
5. LU  Program           Prtllinlnery      Otrecter of    suie_              Cell for         Propoets                                                            EaitIUn
studie            pi hr   to be  ceau  ted by    prop_eslr to         lmtud NW                                                           of prwr
esMtted by        rned            ELIM rAn-cs.                       cmntrewt                                                            ca,ludnd
ULIM                                           e1aspint          ewrded
00 
0 A
Mi 0%
e%



ANNEX 4.7
Page lof 3
MADAGASCAR
Petroleum Sector Reform Project
Summary of Disbursements
Description                        % Financed                              Total
A. GOVERNMENT
(1) Consultants' Services and Training. 100%
Restructuring of SOIIMA;                                               1.9
Open Access System; and
Regulatory Authority
B. SOUMA
(2) Works:
(a) Visbreaker                 100% of Foreign Expenditures              2.6
80% of Local Expenditures
(b) Tanks and Other Repairs;   100% of Foreign Expenditures              8.7
Replacement of Pipelines; and 80% of Local Expenditures
Loading(Unloading Facility
at Mahajanp and Manakara
(c) Loading/Unloading Facility    100% of Foreign Expenditures          13.5
at Toumasina              80% of Local Expenditures
(3) Equipment and Materials       100% of Foreign Expenditures              13.4
80% of Local Expenditures
(4) Consultants' Services and Training.
(a) Private Management of      100%                                      4.2
the Refinery
(b) Project Management;       100%                                       1.5
Hydrographic and Other Studies
C. OTHER
(5) Refunding of the PPF          Amounts Due                                1.5
(6) Unallocated                                                             4.7
TOTAL                                                                      S.



ANNEX 4.7
Page 2 of 3
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Cumulative
Amount               Amount
Fiscal Year          Semester         (USS Million)         (USS Million)   Percent 1
FY94             January 1994             2.5                  2.5             5%
FY95               July 1994              5.0                  2.5            10%
FY95             January 1995            11.6                  6.6            22%
FY96               July 1995             18.2                  6.6            35%
FY96             January 1996            25.0                  6.8            48%
FY97               July 1996             31.8                  6.8            61%
FY97             January 1997            37.5                  5.7           72%
FY98               July 1997             43.3                  5.7            83%
FY98             January 1998            47.6                  4.3            92%
FY99               July 1998             51.9                  4.3           100%
*/ Project-specific disbursement profile.



MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE COMPARISON
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
o        ~~~50%
40%
0            30%
20%
10% 
0% -i
2  6     10     ~~~1~4    18    22     26      30     34
4      8      12      16     20      24      28     32
Quarters From Approval Date
0 Projec Profile  + Afica-wide Eerga    O Madagcr Al Proj
0*



ANNEX 4.A
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ProJect Supervision Plan
A. Bo  Supedsion
The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs
for the review of progress reports, procurement actions and other continual activities. These
regular needs are estimated to require 8 staff weeks during the first year of project
implementation and six staff weeks thereafter.
Approximate                 Activity                 Expected Sk&il     Staff
Dates                                            Requirements      Weeks
July 1993    Project Launch Mission: (a) issue       Economist         6
invitations for restructuring of    Financial Analyst
SOLIMA, establishment of open      Institutional Expert
access system and private
management of the refinery; (b)
define bidding documents for refinery
rehabilitation; and (c) define TOR for
hydrographic studies to improve
loading facilities.
November 1993  Supervision Mission: (a) review          Engineer          6
contracts for refinery rehabilitation;  Economist
(b) define bidding documents for   Institutional Expert
other rehabilitation works and for
LPG promotion progran; (c) review
alternative privatization strategies for
SOLIMA: and (d) agree on petroleum
taxes for 1994 and review the
evolution of petroleum prices.
February 1994   Sumrvision Mission: (a) issue          Economist         4
invitations for regulatory authority  Institutional Expert
study; (b) supervise start-up of Phase
I refinery rehabilitation; (c) review
contracts for other rehabilitation
works; and (d) prepare bidding
documents for new petroleum
terminal at Toamasina.



ANNa KA
Page 2 of 3
June 1994    Sunervlsion Mission and Annual          Engineer          8
Imnlernentation Review: (a) review     Economist
progress in petroleum sector reform  Financial Analyst
and liberalization measures; (b)   Institutional Expert
supervise progress in rehabilitation
works; (c) review proposals for the
restructuring of SOLIMA, open
access system and Petroleum
Regulatory Authority; and (d) review
financial results of Solima.
November 1994  SuRervsion Mission: (a) monitor         Economist          4
implementation of petroleum sector  Financial Analyst
reform and liberalization measures;
(b) review contract for new
petroleum terminal at Toamasina; and
(c) prepare new equity issue for
thermal cracking unit.
1995       Three Supervision Missions,             Engineer          18
Including Annual and Mid-Term          Economist
nReview: (a) oversee    Financia Analyst
consolidation of petroleum sector  Insttutiona Expert
reform and liberalization measures;
(b) monitor on-going Phase I
rebabilitation worls; (c) supervise
initiation of Phase II by private
operators; (d) supervise progress in
other rehabilitation works; (e) review
conclusion studies to improve loading
facilities; (f) supervise
implementation of port at Toamuina;
(g) supervise implementation of gas
promotion program (h) Prepare mid-
term review and (i) undertake joint
Government/Bank mid-term review.
1996       Three Supervision Missions,             Engineer          16
including Annual Implementation        Eoonomist
Review and implement                Financial Anayst
recommendations of mid-term        Institutional Expert
review.
1997       Three Supervision Missions,             Engineer          16
including Annual Implementation        Economist
Review.                             Financial Analyst
Institutional Expert



ANNEXA48
Page 3 of 3
B. BwrowwKs Conrbudon
(a)    Progres reports sre to be submitted at three months intervals with content to be
agreed during the first MDA supervision mission.
(b)   Project review meetinp with the participation of the Ministry of Energy, SOLIMA
and other agencie will be held at least three times per year during IDA supervision
miuions. The meetingp will be chaired by the Director of Energy.
(c)    Audit reports are to be submitted by the Ministry of Energy of SOLIMA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year.



ANNEX 4.9
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
PIROWLEM SECTOR REF)RM PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATOR IN THE MINISIY OF ENERGY AND MlNES
TERMS OREFERENE
BACKGROUND
1.    The specific objectives of the Petroleum Sector Reform Project are to (i) open up the petroleum
sector to private sector participation and create an appropriate framework for a competitive environment;
(ii) rebabilitate facilities in petroleum refining, transportation and marketing to increase operational
efficiency and attract private operators and investors: and (iii) develop institutional capacity for the
efficient regulation of the sector. The Directorate of Energy of the Ministry of Energy and Mines
(MEM) will be responsible for implementing all the project components related to liberalization and
privatization of the petroleum sector. MEM will appoint a Project Coordinator to carry out these
responsibilities with the Terms of Reference indicated below.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
2.    The scope of work of the Project Coordinator would include:
(a)    preparing terms of reference and reviewing bidding documents for the studies to be
ndertakcen for: (i) the restructuring corporatization and privatization of SOLIMA; (ii) the
establishment of rules for the system of open access by all operators to certain key
infrastructure facilities; and (iii) the organization of the petroleum regulatory authority.
@b)    Monitoring project activities by periodically visiting project sites and discussing with the
project implementation personnel.
(c)    Providing recommendations to MEM and IDA for corrective actions, and advanced
planning whenever delays and/or cost over-runs are noticed.
(d)   Reviewing monthly, quarterly, and annual progress reports prepared by SOLIMA's
experts and preparing recommendations to MEM and IDA.
(e)    Preparing a detailed work program with a specific time table for implementing all the
components related to liberalization and privatization of the petroleum sector, liaising
with all the government agencies concerned to get all the necessary approvals, initiating
actions for implementation in accordance with the stipulations in the IDA credit and other
project agreements (in particular, restructuring of SOLIMA, establishment of petroleum
regulatory authority, system of open access by all operators to key infrastructure
facilities, mantning satisfactory petroleum pricing mechanism, and establishing
stisfactory petroleum procurement practices).
(f)    Liaising with all concerned government agencies to facilitate clearances with respect to
customs duty, tax exemption, license, permits, land acquisition etc. for speedy
implementation of the project components.



ANNEXC 4.9
Page 2 of 2
(g)    Arrngig to und IMA audited project accous which will include Special Accounts  d
Statement of Expenditures no later than six month after the end of each calendar year.
(O)    Being fmiliar with IDA's Credit/Project Agrements, and   viromenl and
p rement uiddine and main sure that they a  adhered to in Implementation.
QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE
3.    Ihe canldat for the post of Project Coordinar dwuld be agradua  of the Univeity levd
with a minimum of 10 year experience in the energy sector. Past exprience in the preparation of tender
documents, tender evaluation, contract neoiaons, project scheduling, projet cost control, and
preparation of project progress reports for managemen information is advisable. The candidate should
have sufficient authority and initiative to liaise with senior goven t oMcials and preparo specific
ction program.



ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
PEIROLEUM SECTOR REFORMPROJEC
EXPERTS TO BE EMPOYED BY SOLIMA
MiS OF REFERNE
1.    SOLIMA, the national petroleum corporation, was established in 1976 and is under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM). SOLIMA owns the only petroleum
refinery in the country, bulk storage depots, inland distribution facilities, ocean transport
facilities, and a number of other petroleum marketing facilities. SOLIMA has obtained IDA
financing to support basic infrastructure investments required to improve operational efficiency
and to attract private operators and investors. The proposed project includes, among other
things, rehabilitation of the refinery at Toamasina, petroleum storage and transport facilities,
construction of a new petroleum jetty at the port of Toamasina, and facilities to increase
marketing of LPG throughout the country. In order to implement the project components under
its responsibility (estimated to cost US$33 million) in an efficient manner, SOLIMA will employ
experts to help in the implementation of the project before the IDA credit becomes effective.
2.    The experts will be staff presently working within SOLIMA, which will be given the
responsibility to supervise the Implementation of the project with technical assistance from the
experienced Engineering Consultants. The experts will monitor and supervise all matters related
to the project under SOLIMA's scope, and will report the project progress on a monthly and
quarterly basis to SOLIMA management, MEM and IDA. The Engineering Consultants will
provide all assistance wcesssry to prepare drawings and specifications, invite and evaluate tenders
and help in project management, including the preparation of reports.
3.    The experts will consist of a Manager with 5 years experience in project management,
one Mechanical Engineer and a Cost Accountant, all with a least 5 years experience in their
respective disciplines.
4.    Specific scope of work for the experts is as follows:
(a)    Overseeing all arrangements for the project execution of project components
under SOLIMA's responsibility;
(b)    Monitoring physical progress in project implementation. An updated schedule
for physical progress by project component will be produced monthly, based on
progress actually achieved and on a realistic projection of future progress;
(c)    Monitor the financial progress in the execution of the project, including
disbursements of the IDA credit and the local contribution from SOLIMA;
(d)    Reviewing invitations to bid, contract documents, evaluations and awards for all
project components;



ANNEX 4.10
Page 2 of 2
(e)    Arrange and conduct onsite inspection of the physical and financial progress of
work;
(f)    Monitoring compliance with IDA Credit and Project Agreements and with the
subsidiary loan agreement signed between the Government and SOLIMA, and
acting as channel for information between IDA and SOLIMA;
(g)    Preparation of monthly, quarterly and annual reports for MEM, SOLIMA and
IDA; and
(h)    Any other responsibilities entrusted to them by SOLIMA from time to time.



ANNEX 4.11
Page 1 of 4
MADAGASCAR - PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
1.    SOLIMA is a state owned company established in June 1976, with the responsibility of
implementing the policies of the Government in the petroleum sector. Until recently, the import,
transport, storage, transformation and distribution of petroleum products was an exclusive
moi.opoly of the State and SOLIMA was the only entity authorized to undertake these activities
in Madagascar. Starting 1991, the Government of Madagascar embarked in a liberalization
process of the petroleum sector and the private sector has been allowed to open and operate
distribution stations.  With the financial support of the World Bank, the refinery will be
rehabilitated to improve its operating efficiency and make its product prices competitive vis-a-vis
price of imported finished products. Studies conducted by specialized Consultants prepared a
realistically achievable modernization program designed to put the refinery in a position where
it can compete with direct import of finished products. The investment cost of this program is
estimated at around US$6.5 million. The consultants have also recommended a second phase of
modernization which will include addition of new equipments to the existing visbreaker to convert
it to a thermal cracker. This phase is not included in the project and will be initiated only after
completion of the first phase and the refinery has been open to the participation of the private
sector.
PROJECT DESCRWI N
2.    The project includes the following components: (1) rehabilitation of the existing refinery
at Toamasina; (2) basic improvements in the petroleum storage and transport infrastructure; (3)
construction of a new petroleum loading/unloading facility at the port of Toamasina; and (4)
program to promote the use of LPG.
3.    The rehabilitation of the refinery consists of a number of work packages of different
disciplines jointly aimed at improving the efficiency, safety and environmental aspects of
operations. The work packages are listed below:
(a)  Mechanical refurbishment of visbreaker complex, which has suffered corrosion damage
and also damage arising from a fire in its furnace.
(b)  Additional power generation equipment to provide adequate and reliable power supply.
(c)  New power distribution equipment to replace equipment which has outlived its useful
life.
(d)  Upgradation of visbreaker instrumentation.
(e)  Various small process modifications (including the visbreaker soaker drum) throughout
the refinery aimed at efficiency improvements.
(f)  Addition of a new instrument air compressor.
(g)  Miscellaneous rehabilitation works, including environmental works such as oil separators
and incinerators, and upgrading of the boiler feedwater system.



ANNEX 4.11
Page 2 of 4
4.    In order to increase the efficiency and reliability of petroleum supply, the proposed
project will also finance: (1) purchase of additional rail tank-wagons and other minor equipment;
(2) improvements in the product unloading facilities at Mahajanga and Manakara harbors; (3)
repairs to the existing crude and product storage tanks; (4) the replacement of the pipelines from
the port of Toamasina to the storage facilities; and (5) software packages to improve planning
of transport and distribution. The total cost of all these components is estimated at around
US$12.0 million.
5.    The existing petroleum loading and unloading facilities at Toamasina harbor are situated
in the midst of the general cargo facilities posing an ever-present danger of fire and explosion.in
addition, the size of tankers that can be handled is limited to 50,000 DWT maximum which
reduces the advantage of obtaining lower ocean freight rates. The Consultants and other Marine
spe.ialists who examined other alternatives came to the conclusion that a dolphin with sufficient
manoeuvering space would be the most cost effective and environmentally safe option. The cost
of this component alone is estimated at US$13 million.
6.    In order to increase the sales of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) in Madagascar from about
3,000 tons to about 6,000 tons per year, the project will finance the replacement of the existing
bottles, additional storage capacity, transport equipment, rehabilitation of existing filling plants,
and installation of new skid mounted two-point filling stations. The cost of these facilities is
estimated at about US$6 million.
7.    SOLIMA will be responsible for the implementation of all these components and will
employ experts for this purpose. To assist these experts, SOLIMA intends to hire the services
of experienced engineering consultants with the main objectives of, among other things, planning,
design of facilities, preparation of specifications and tender documents, tender evaluation, project
management and commissioning of the completed facilities.
TERMS OF REFERENZ
S.    The scope of work of the Project Management consultants (PMC) would cover, but not
limited to, the following:
(a)    Prepare a Basis of Design (BOD) as per Annex-1;
(b)    Review the existing feasibility studies prepared by SOLIMA'S consultants and
prepare modifications and or additions, if required, in consultation with
SOLIMA'S experts;
(c)    Select, in consultation with SOLIMA's experts, licensed technologies, if
required, for various facilities included in the project (World Bank approval is
required prior to making commitments);
(d)    Prepare basic design, project specification, drawings, etc. in sufficient details for
each component and prepare turnkey tender documents and model contracts, to
perform detailed engineering, procurement, transportation to site, construction
and commissioning, in packets suitably arranged for awarding separate contracts;



ANNEX 4.11
Page 3 of 4
(e)   Indicate suitable provisions to install additional facilities to convert the existing
visbreaker into a thermal cracker, if required in the future;
(f)    Prepare budgetary cost estimates for each bid package;
(g)    Prepare project construction schedule for each turnkey package including details
for network analysis to monitor the physical progress of work;
(h)    Prepare project monitoring guidelines and formats for circulating information for
project management control;
(i)   Issue invitations for turnkey bids as per IDA guidelines, assist in the evaluation
of bids and prepare specific recommendations;
Oj)    Provide home office support to the field staff in their supervision of construction,
commissioning and start-up;
(k)    Prepare monthly progress report on the physical and financial progress of the
project with specific recommendations with respect to slippage on the project
schedule and project cost over-run as and when they occur;
(I)    Prepare procedures for observing safety and security through all stages of project
implementation and operation thereafter;
(in)   Review additional charges or revisions, if any, required by the contractors and
prepare specific recommendations with justifications;
(n)    Assist SOLIMA's experts in organizing commissioning of various facilities and
obtaining performance guarantees as specified in each contract;
(o)    Assist SOLIMA's experts in obtaining legal remedies in respect of obtaining
performance guarantees in the event of disputes;
(p)    Prepare a structure of the construction and commissioning team required,
detailing individual job specification and responsibility.
QUALFIC              ND EXPERJENC
9.    The engineering company selected for the PMC contract should have a minimum of 10
years of experience in providing similar services in refining, marine and surface transportation
of petroleum products, and marketing. The individuals proposed for the PMC should have a
minimum of ten years of experience in their respective fields. The Project Manager designated
should have ten years of experience out of which at least five years should be as project manager
for similar jobs. The company's experience should include, among other things, design, licensed
process selection, engineering, procurement, inspection, supervision of construction,
commissioning and start-up. In case one firm alone does not have all the relevant experience for
the proposed work, proposals could be submitted in collaboration with others having the required
qualification and experience.



ANNEX 4.11
Page 4 of 4
SHEULE OF WORK
10.   The PMC services are expected to take about 100 man-months out of which about 20
man-months are expected for works leading to bid evaluation and recommendation. The duration
of the PMC work is expected to be around 36 months from the time the contract is effective.
REPORT PRESENTATON
11.    The basis of design (BOD) and bid documents should be prepared in draft and should
be submitted to SOLIMA's experts and Word Bank for a joint review. The finalized draft of the
bid documents and sample contracts should be forwarded to the World Bank for approval prior
to release for bidding. During the supervision stage, monthly, quarterly and annual progress
reports showing the physical and financial progress of the project components should be prepared
and forwarded to SOLIMA and the World Bank. After commissioning the facilities, a Project
Completion Report should be prepared and submitted to SOLIMA and the World Bank.



MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
INDICATORS FOR THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Objectives                                                    Indicators
1.    Open-up  the petroleum  sector to  private sector       Appropriate pricing policies. Adoption of measures for regional
participation and create an appropriate framework for a       price differentiation.
competitive environment;
Open access system to key infrastructure facilities established
(target date: December 31, 1994)
Private sector owns and operates petroleum distribution stations.
Refinery is separated from SOLIMA and established as a joint-
stock company (target date: June 30, 1994).
SOLIMA is restructured and separate companies are established
as joint-stock companies (target date: December 31, 1994).
Shares of the refinery and of other companies born out of the
restructuring of SOLIMA are offered to the private sector (target
date: June 30, 1995).
2.    Support the basic infrastructure investments required to  Days of availability of the refinery (including the visbreaker):
increase operational efficiency and to attract private operators  310 days per year.                                           M
and investors;                                                Crude oil refined: 12,000 bpd.                                    x
0.



Reserves of refined products stored in Antananarivo: minimum
of 1 week of consumption.
LPG consumpdon:
1995: 3,400 tons
2000: 6,000 tons
3.    Develop institutional capacity for the efficient regulation  Establish a Petroleum  Regulatory Authority (target date:
of the sector.                                             December 31, 1994).
OQ M
4 N
0.
o ,'



ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 5
MADAGASCAR
Solitany Malagasy (SOLIMA)
Historical Income Statements
Billion MGF
Fiscal Year Ending June 30.                     1988      1989       1990    1991 a/
Sales of Refined Products                      139.3      159.0     174.6     338.7
Indirect Taxes                                  (14.1)    (13.7)    (12.3)    (20.2)
Net Sales                                    125.2      145.3     162.2     318.5
Total Cost of Goods Sold                       102.2       90.8     117.5     266.2
Commercial Margin                               23.0       54.5      44.7      52.3
Labor                                           (4.1)      (4.9)     (5.3)    (10.4)
Depreciation                                    (4.0)     (4.4)      (3.6)     (6.2)
General, Sales and Administrative Expenses      (9.8)    (18.5)      (9.6)    (21.5)
Other Income/(Expenses)                          8.6        0.6       0.3       2.7
Net Provisions Income/(Expenses)                (16)      (2.1)       0.5      (2.9)
Subtotal: Operating Expenses                 (10.9)    (29.3)    (17.7)    (38.3)
Operating Income                                12.1       25.3      27.0      14.0
Net Financial Expenses                          (4.0)     (7.6)      (0.1)     (0.5)
Exceptional Expenses b/                         (4.7)     (5.1)    (10.4)       (3)
Subtotal: Other Expenses                      (8.7)    (12.7)    (10.5)      (6.9)
Earnings Before Tax                              3.4       12.6      16.5       7.1
Income Tax                                      (1.1)      (5)       (6.2)       .0)
Net Income                                                  7f2   -: -) 4.0
a/ Fiscal Year 1991 had 18 months (July 1, 1990 - December 31, 1991).
b/ Includes indemnization to ex-shareholders nationalized in 1974.



ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 5
MADAGASCAR
Solitany Malagasy (SOLIMA)
Historical Balance Sheets
Billion MGF
Fiscal Year Ending June 30,                       1988       1989       1990    1991 a/
Raw Materials                                      19.2      21.0       29.7       40.8
Finished Goods                                    25.2        7.7       18.2       30.8
Other Merchandise Inventory                         9.6      20.0       12.2       15.3
Total Inventory                                 54.0       51.0       62.4       92.0
Cash/Banks                                        52.5       28.0       31.6       22.6
Accounts Receivable                                13.0      15.9       16.5       32.7
Marketable Securities                               0.5       5.1        4.6        0.0
Other Assets                                        5.3       0.7        0.8        3.2
Total Current Assets                           125.2      100.7      115.9      150.5
Land & Equipment                                   16.5      15.2       14.0       15.1
Intangible Assets                                   0.7       0.5        0.2        0.0
Other Fixed Assets & Participations                 1.7       1.2        2.6        9.9
Fixed Assets                                     18.9      16.9       16.7       25.1
TOTAL ASSETS                                      144.1     117.6      132.7      175.6
Accounts Payable                                   75.4      42.8       31.8       62.4
Other Debt b/                                       7.6       9.5       14.5       12.3
Current Maturities of LTD                           4.1       1.6        2.8        3.6
Other Liabilities                                  5.1        0.1        0.1        0.0
Current Liabilities                             92.2       54.0       49.2       78.3
Net Long-Term Debt                                 14.4      14.0       13.4       12.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                 106.6      68.0       62.5       91.1
PROVISIONS                                          9.8      14.4       24.3       36.6
Shareholders' Funds                                9.7       16.7       26.9       31.0
State Allocation c/                                18.1      18.5       19.0       16.9
Total Equity                                    27.8       35.2       45.9       47.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                        144.1     117.6      132.7      175.6
a/ As of FY-end December 31, 1991.
b/ Excludes debt to the defunct CCH & Caisse de Perequation, which is treated as equity, but includes
fiscal obligations to the State for MGF 7.6 billion in 1989 and MGF 11.9 billion in 1990.
c/ Includes debt of MGF 13.1 billion to CCH & Caisse de Perequation, which is treated as equity.



ANNEX 5.1
Page 3 of 5
MADAGASCAR
Solitany Malagasy (SOLIMA)
Historical Income Statements
US$ Million
Fiscal Year Ending June 30.                     1988       1989      1990    1991 a/
Sales of Refined Products                       105.8     102.2      111.3     198.1
Indirect Taxes                                  (10.7)     (8.8)      (7.8)    (11.8)
Net Sales                                      95.1      93.4      103.4     186.3
Total Cost of Goods Sold                         77.6      58.3       74.9     155.7
Commercial Margin                                17.5      35.0       28.5      304.
Labor                                            (3.1)     (3.2)      (3.4)     (6.1)
Depreciation                                     (3.0)     (2.8)      (2.3)     (3.6)
General, Sales and Administrative Expenses       (7.4)    (11.9)      (6.1)    (12.6)
Other Income/(Expenses)                           6.5       0.4        0.2       1.6
Net Provisions Income/(Expenses)                 (1.2)     (14)        0.3      (1.7)
Subtotal: Operating Expenses                   (8.3)    (18.8)    (11.3)    (22.4)
Operating Income                                  9.2      16.2       17.2        82
Net Financial Expenses                           (3.1)     (4.9)      (0.1)     (0.3)
Exceptional Expenses b/                          (3.6)     (3.3)      (6.6)     (37)
Subtotal: Other Expenses                       (6.6)     (8.2)      (6.7)      (4.0)
Earnings Before Tax                               2.6       8.1       10.5       4.1
Income Tax                                       (0.8)      (.6)      (0)          )
Net Income                                        1.8       4.5        6.5       2.4
Avg. FY Exchange Rate (MGF/US$1)                1,317     1,556      1,569     1,710
a/ Fiscal Year 1991 had 18 months (July 1, 1990 - December 31, 1991).
b/ Includes indemnization to ex-shareholders nationalized in 1974.



ANNEX 5.1
Page 4 of 5
MADAGASCAR
Solitany Malagasy (SOLIMA)
Historical Balance Sheets
US$ Million
Fiscal Year Ending June 30,                      1988       1989      1990    1991 a/
Raw Materials                                     13.4      12.7       19.5      22.3
Finished Goods                                    17.6       4.7       12.0      16.8
Other Merchandise Inventory                       6.7       12.2        8.0       8.3
Total Inventory                                37.7       30.9       41.1      50.2
Cash/Banks                                       36.7       17.0       20.8      12.3
Accounts Receivable                               9.1        9.7       10.9      17.8
Marketable Securities                             0.3        3.1        3.0       0.0
Other Assets                                      3.7        0.4        0.5       1.7
Total Current Assets                           87.5      61.1       76.4       82.1
Land & Equipment                                 11.5        9.2        9.2       8.3
Intangible Assets                                 0.5        0.3        0.1       0.0
Other Fixed Assets & Participations               1.2        0.7        1.7       5.4
Fixed Assets                                   13.2       10.3       11.0      13.7
TOTAL ASSETS                                    100.7       71.4       87.4      95.8
Accounts Payable                                 52.7       26.0       20.9      34.0
Other Debt b/                                     5.3        5.8        9.6       6.7
Current Maturities of LTD                         2.8        1.0        1.8       2.0
Other Liabilities                                 3.6        0.1        0.0       0.0
Current Liabilities                            64.5       32.8       32.4      42.7
Net Long-Term Debt                               10.0        8.5        8.8       7.0
TOTAL UABILITIES                                 74.5       41.3       41.2      49.7
PROVISIONS                                        6.8        8.8       16.0      20.0
Shareholders' Funds                               6.7       10.1      17.7       16.9
State Allocation c/                              12.7       11.3       12.5       9.2
Total Equity d/                                19.4       21.4      30.2       26.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                      100.7       71.4       87.4      95.8
End FY Exchange Rate MGF/US$1                   1,430      1,647      1,518     1,833
a/As of FY-end December 31, 1991.
b/ Excludes debt to the defunct CCH & Caisse de Perequation, which is treated as equity, but includes
fiscal obligations to the State for MGF 7.6 billion in 1989 and MGF 11.9 billion in 1990.
c/ Includes debt of MGF 13.1 billion to CCH & Caisse de Perequation, which is treated as equity.
d/ Change in shareholders' equity differs from yearly net income, because the income statements and
balance sheets are translated at different exchange rates.



ANNEX 5.1
Page 5 of S
MADAGASCAR
Solitany Malagasy (SOLIMA)
Financial Ratios
Liguidity/Capital Structure Ratios                1988      1989       1990    1991 a/
Current Ratio                                     1.36       1.86      2.36       1.92
Quick Ratio                                       0.77       0.92      1.09       0.75
Net Working Capital/Total Assets                  0.23       0.40      0.50       0.41
Equity/Total Assets                             19.3%      29.9%      34.6%     27.2%
LTD:LTD+Equity                                   34.66      28.72     23.77      21.79
Managen ent Ratios
Raw Materials Inventory (days)                    n.a.      117.9     119.3       82.7
Finished Goods Inventory (days)                    n.a.      43.4      73.3       62.4
Total Inventory (days)                             n.a.     286.7     251.0      186.4
Accounts Receiveable (days)                       34.8       37.9      38.5       52.4
Accounts Payable (days)                            n.a.     240.6     127.8      126.4
Economic Ratios
Fixed Assets Turnover (x)                          7.2        9.1       9.4       13.6
Gross Return on Assets                           2.6%      11.3%      12.0%      4.3%
Value Added/Revenue                               n.a.    29.0%      23.5%      13.1%
Profitability Ratios
Commerical Margin/Net Sales Revenue             18.4%      37.5%     27.6%      16.4%
Operating Margin/Net Sales Revenue               9.7%      17.4%      16.6%      4.4%
Income Before Tax/Net Sales Revenue              2.7%       8.6%      10.2%      2.2%
Income Tax/Net Sales Revenue                     0.9%       3.8%      3.9%       1.0%
Net Income/Net Sales Revenue                     1.8%       4.8%      6.3%       1.3%
Net Return on Equity                             9.0%      21.0%     21.6%       9.1%
a/ Fiscal Year 1991 had 18 months (July 1, 1990 - December 31, 1991).



MADAGASCAR
SOUMIA REFINERY
Projected Income Statements
USS Million (Constant 1992)
6 months
1993        1994         1995          1996        1997         1998         1999
Domestic Sales Revenue                                      19.5         37.0         52.5         60.6         71.9         76.6         81.2
Export Revenue                                               3.7          73           93          12.1         13.5         22.3         21.1
Total Sales Revenue                                      23.2         44.3         61.8         72.7         85.4         98.9        102.3
Raw Materials                                               20.0         39.5         55.7         65.4         73.8         86.1         88.3
Merchandise & Spares                                         1.0          1.6          1.6          1.6          1.6          1.6          1.6
Cost of Goods Sold                                       21.0         41.2         573          67.0         755          87.8         90.0
Gross Margin                                              23           3.1          4.5          5.7          9.9         11.2         12.4
General, Sales & Administrative Expenses                     0.7          13           13           13           13           13           1.3
Labor                                                        0.4          0.9          0.9          0.9          0.9          0.9          0.9
Depreciation                                                 1.2          1.0          0.1          0.5          1.9          1.9          1.9
Operating Margin                                         (0.1)         0.0          2.2          3.0          5.9          7.1          8.3
Net Financial Exp. (Income) on Short-Term Instruments        0.0          0.2          0.4          0.4          0.4          0.4          0.4
Financial Expenses and Fees on Long-Term Debt                0.2          0.6          0.9          1.1          1.2          1.1          1.0
Provisions                                                   0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1
Earnings Before Taxes                                    (0.4)        (0.9)         0.8          1.4          43           5.5          6.8
Income Tax                                                   0.0          0.0          0.0          0.3          1.5          1.9          2.4
Net Profit                                                  (            (0.9)         0.&V 1.1                  2.8          3.6          4.4
Dividends                                                    0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          2.8          3.6          4.4
Retained Earnings                                            L4i)       (0.O9          0.8          1.1          0.0          0.0          0.0  oV1
o.



MADAGASCAR
SOUMA REFINERY
Projected Sources & Uses Of Funds
US$ Million (Constant 1992)
6 months
SOURCES                                                    1993         1994         1995         1996         1997         1998          1999
Net Income                                                  (0.4)        (0-9)         0.8          1.1          2.8          3.6          4.4
Depreciation                                                 1.2          1.0          0.1          05           1.9          1.9          1.9
Provisions                                                  0.1           0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1
Internal Cash Generation                                  0.8          0.1          1.1          1.8          4.8          5.6          6.5
Other Sources
Long-Term Debt                                               1.2          6.1          3.3          1.8          0.9          0.0          0.0
Equity Subscriptions                                        0.0           0.3         12.2         11.5          0.0          0.0          0.0
External Sources                                          1.2          6.4         15.6         133           0.9          0.0          0.0
TOTAL SOURCES                                               2.0           6.6         16.7         15.1          5,7          5.6          6.5
USES
New Project Assets                                           1.2          6.4         15.6         13.3          0.9          0.0          0.0
Repayment of Long-Term Debt                                 0.8           1.7          0.8          0.8          0.8          1.2          1.7
Dividends                                                   0.0           0.0          0.0         0.0           2.8          3.6          4.4
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                       1.5          1.7          1.4          0.8          0.9          1.1          0.2
Surplus (Deficit) Cash                                      (1.5)        (3.2)        (1.1)        0.1          0.3          (0.2)         0.1
TOTAL USES                                                  2.0           6.6         16.7         15.1          5.7          5.6          6.5
Ul
0~
I-t    I-.
X x



MADAGASCAR
SOUMA REFINERY
Projected Balance Sheets
US$ Million (Constant 1992)
6 months
1993        1994         1995         1996         1997         1998        1999
Raw Materiah                                                1.6          32           4.6          5A          6.1          7.1          7.3
Finished Goods                                              0.6          12           1.7         2.0          23           2.7          2.8
Other Merchandise Inventory                                 0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1
Total Inventory                                           2.4          4.6          6A           75          85           9.9         10.2
Cash/Banks                                                  0.9          1.7          2A           2.8         3.2          3.7          3.7
Accounts Receivable                                         03           0.6          0.8          1.0          1.2          1A          1.4
Marketable Securities                                       0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Other Assets                                                6.6          6.6          6.6         6.6          6.6          6.6          6.6
Total Current Assets                                     10.1         135         162          17.9         19A          215          21.9
Land & Equipment                                            2.1          7.6         23.0         35.8        34.9         32.9         31.0
Intangile Assets                                            0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
Other Fied Assets & Participations                          3.4          3.4          34           3.4         3.           3.           34
Fixed Assets                                              53          11.0         26A         392          382          363          34.4
TOTAL  A$ -'',$,-Z000:;fif:*S g:001 0;:00040000fl:  00 0 t 00    156  24.5 .i  42.6       57.0         57           57.8         56
Accounts Payable                                            1.7          3A           4.7          55           62           72          7A
Short-Term Debt                                             2.2          55           6.6          6.4         6.1          63           6.2
Other Debt                                                  0.8          0.8          0.8          0.8         0.8          0.8          0.8
Current Maturities of LTD                                   1.7          0.8          0.8         0.8           12           1.7         0.9
Other Liabilities                                           0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Current Liabilities                                       65          105          12.9        13.6         14.4         16.1         153
Total Long-Term Debt                                        6.8         11.2         13.7         14.8         14.9         13.7        12.0
Less Current Maturities of LTD                            1.7          0.8          0.8         0.8           1.2         1.7          0.9
Net Long-Term Debt                                          5.1         10.4         13.0         14.0         13.7         12.0        11.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                          11.6         20.9         25.9         27.6        28.1          28.1        26.4
Provisions                                                  1.2          13           1.4          1.6          1.7         1.8          1.9
Total Equity                                                2.9          2.2         153          27.9        27.9         27.9         27.9
TOTAL LIABILITIES&EQUITY                                   15.6         245          42.6                      57570  57.6  578         563



MADAGASCAR
SOUMA REFINERY
Summary of Financial Projections
6 months
1993        1994         1995         1996         1997         1998         1999
Crude Oil Imported ('000 MT)                               146          292          409          467,         514          584         584
Sales Revenue                                              23.2         44.3        61.8         72.7         85.4         98.9        1023
Total Operating Expenses                                   233          44.3         59.6        69.7         795          91.8         94.0
Operating Income                                           (0.1)         0.0         2.2          3.0          5.9          7.1          83
Other Income/(Epenses)                                     3)            )           (4)          (16)        (16)         (16          Uj5
Net Earnings Before Tax                                    (0.4)        (0.9)         0.8         1.4          4.3          55           6.8
Net Profit                                                 (0.4         (0.9)         0            1.1         2.8          3.6          4.4
CufrentAssets                                              10.1         135          16.2        17.9         19A          215          21.9
Net FixedAssets                                             55          11.0         26.4        39.2         38.2         363          34.4
Total Assets                                               15.6         245          42.6        57.0         57.6         57.8         56.3
Current Liabilities                                         65          105          12.9        13.6         14A          16.1         15.3
Term Liabilities                                            5.1         10A          13.0        14.0          13.7        12.0         11.1
Provisions                                                  1.2          13           1.4         1.6          1.7          1.8          1.9
Total Equity                                                2.9          2.2         153         27.9         27.9         27.9         27.9
Total Liabilities + Equity                                 15.6         245          42.6        57.0         57.6         57.8         563
Current Ratio                                              157          1.29         1.26         132         135          1.34         1.43
Equity/Assets                                            183%          9.2%        35.9%       48.9%        48A%         483%         49.6%
LTD:LTD+Equity                                            6436         82:18        46.54       33 67        33 67        30:70        2&872
Operating Income/Sales                                  -0.4%          0.1%         3.6%         4.1%        6.9%         7.2%         8.1%
Net Profit Before Taxes/Saks                            -1.9%        -2.1%          13%          1.9%        5.0%         55%          6.6%
Net Profit/Saks                                         -1.9%        -2.1%          13%          15%         3.2%         3.6%         4.3%
Return on Average Equity                                   neg.        neg.         5.0%        3.1%         6.6%         85%         105%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (x)                            056          054          1.17        152          2.48         2.40         3.89



MADAGASCAR
SOUMA REFINERY
Sensitivity Analysis
SensitivityAnalysis:                                                                      FRR         EqRR
Base Case                                                                                17.9%        15.8%
ExpOrtO Dedine 10%                                                                       15.0%        12.8%
Exports Ddiw20%                                                                          123%          95%
Domestic Demand Declines 10%                                                             16.8%        14.7%
Domestic Demand Declines 20%                                                             15.6%        13.4%
CapacityUtilization Declints 10%                                                         172%         1455%
Capacity Utilization Declines 20%                                                        16.0%        12.6%
Project Cost Increases 10%                                                               16.6%        14.1%
Project Cost Increases 20%                                                               155%         12.6%
Crude/RIefined Product Price Ratio Declines 5%                                           15.9%        135%
Crude/Refined Product Price Ratio Declines 10%                                           13.9%        112%
OQ Z
La
I'm3



MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
SOLIMA REFINERY
Projected Rm of Return
(USS MOM)
F    ;n-4-a Rate of Return - Prjet
Investment Costs                 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  20    2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014
PPF Expenditure                  (0.75)
Capital tnvestrnent (Excluding IDC)   (I.I5) (6.10) (14.14) (13.34) (0.92)
Increase inWorkingCapial         (I 46)  172) (1.3S1 (0.851 (o.87  (I.061 (0.23) (0.211  0.06   0.07   0.07   0.07   0.07  (0 011 (0.011 (001  (001  (o.On  (0.011  (o.021 (0.021  (0.021
Subtotal                      (3.36) (7.82) (16.22) (14.19) (1.79) (2.06) (0.23) (0.21)  0.06   0.07   0.07   0.07   0.07  (0.01) (0.01) (0.01) (0.01) (0.01) (0.01) (0.01) (0.01) (0.01)
Add Back
Net LIcone                       (0.44) (0.95)  0.82   1.11   2.76   3.56   4.41   5.01   5.30   5.50   5.69   5.83   5.96   6.25   6.47   6.69   6.92   7.15   7.39   7.64   7.89   8.14
Depreciation                      1.21   0.96   0.15   0.54   I.88   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.93   1.82   1.82   2.82   2.82   2.82   2.S2   1.S2   2.82   1.82
Net Financial Expenaes/(Incomne)  0.2S   0.87   1.27   1.47   1.53   1.50   1.41   1.29   1.15   1.00  0.86   0.71   0.57   0.45   0.34   0.22   0.11   0.00  (0.12) (0.23) (0.34) (0.42)
Provisions                        0.06   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12  0.12   0.12   0.12  0.12   0.12  0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12  0.12  0.12   0.12
Recovery of Incemmenal Working
Capital plus Salvage Value        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0 00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.62
Subtotal                       1.1   1.01   2.36   3.25   6.29   7.11   7.88   8.35   8.50   8.56   8.60   8.59   8.58   8.64   8.74   8.85   8.97   9.09   9.21  9.35   9.49  20.28
Net Cash Flows                   (2.24) (6.81) (13.85) (10.94)  4.50   6.06   7.65   8.13   8.56   8.63  8.67  8.67  8.66   8.63  8.73   8.84  8.96   9.08   9.20   9.34   9.48 20.26
FirLancial Rate of Return (1993-2014)  17.9%
NPV @ 10%                        $20.0
Rate of Returms ot Equity - Private Sector     1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014
Equity Injections                            (21.50) (11.50)  0.00
Dividends                                      0.00   0.00   2.32   3.00   3 71  4.21   4.46   4.63   4.78  4.90   5.01   5.25   5.44   5.62   5.82   6.01   6.22   6.43   6.63   6.84
Net Cash Flow on Equity                      (11.50) (21.50)  2.32   3.00   3.71  4.21   4.46   4.63   4.78   4.90   5.01   5.25   5.44   5.62   5.82   6.01  6.22   6.43   6.63   6.84
Equity Rate ofRetum (1995-2014)    15.8%
Accumulated Equity InvetAed                   $1.5  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  $23.0  523.0  $23.0  $23.0
PrivateSectorSharmOwnemihip                   72.5%  84.1%  84.1%  84.1%  84.1%  84.1%  84.1%  84.1%  U4.1%  U4.1%  84.1%  84.1%  84.1%  U4.1%  84.1%  U4.1%  U4.1%  84.1%  84.1%  U4.1%
lb
0



ANNEX5.
Page I of 2
S(LIMA Refinery - l\otes and Assumptions for Financial Proiee!iQM
A. General Assumptions
1. The financial projections are based on SOLIMA's accounts for FY 1991. These projections
are developed in constant US dollars, which is the currency in which SOLIMA's expenses and
export revenues are expressed, as well as the reference currency for the import parity pricing
system to be implemented under this project. Average international inflation is projected at 3.9
percent in accordance with World Bank forecasts, with the FMG/USD exchange rate moving in
accordance with the differential between international and Malagasy inflation. Assumptions
com:erning price levels, freight, demand and yields are detailed in Annex 6.1 (Economics of the
refinery rehabilitation).
B. Income Statement
2. Domestic Prices are set in accordance with the import parity pricing system described in
Chapter 11, para. 2.14, which includes an allowance (frais de passage) for expenses incurred by
the petroleum terminal in Tamatave. These fees, presently estimated at $1.4 million p.a., are
assumed to change in accordance with the annual growth in sales of refined products.
3. Estimations for operating costs are derived from SOLIMA's historical accounts and based
on comparisons with other African refineries. At present, SOLIMA's cash operating costs are
inflated because of over-staffing; deterioration of equipment, stemming from inadequate
maintenance; and lax inventory management. Personnel costs and overheads are assumed to
remain constant over time in real terms, but purchases of spares, chemicals and other materials
are expected to decline by 25 percent after the refinery is placed under private management.
4. Depreciation. New assets are linearly depreciated over 20 years.
5. Sales and Income Tax. The sales tax (TUPP) schedule projected for domestic sales of
petroleum products is detailed in Chapter 11, para. 2.16. Income tax (IBS) is assumed to continue
to be levied at the present rate of 35 percent. Losses are carried forward over a maximum period
of 5 years.
C. Balance Sheet and Cash-Flow Statement
6. Cash. Minimum operating cash is taken as 15 days of cash operating costs. Surplus cash
is assumed to be invested in short-term instruments, thereby maintaining its value in real USD
terms. Deficit cash (overdraft) is supplied through short-term debt assumed to have an interest
rate of 6 percent per annum in real terms.
7. Accounts Receivable. Domestic sales of petroleum products by the refinery to SOLIMA and
other distribution companies are expected to be conducted on a cash basis. Consequently,
accounts receivable are assumed to be 5 days of sales. Export sales are assumed to be paid
within 30 days of shipment, in keeping with present practice.



ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 2
8. Inventories. Average inventory levels are projected as follows: for crude oil 30 days of
purchases; for products, 10 days of sales; for chemicals and maintenance materials, 30 days of
purchases.
9. Plant and Equipment are based on the historical values taken from SOLIMA's accounts and
from the investment program agreed upon under the Project.
10. Accounts Payab  are projected at 30 days for the supply of crude and refined products, in
keeping with international trade practice, and 90 days for other creditors.
11. Financing Plan. The proposed IDA credit will fund all financial requirements under Phase
I of the project, excluding interest during construction (approximately $1 million), which would
be capitalized and converted into equity by the Government with no impact on SOLIMA's cash
flow. IDA funds are assumed to be on-lent to SOLIMA at 1.1 times the interest rate applicable
for IBRD lending (currently 7.43 percent) over 20 years including 5 years grace. Phase II of the
project is assumed to be fully financed through foreign investment (equity and quasi-equity).



ANNEX 6.1
Page 1 of 8
The details and basic assumptions underlying the economic analysis of the refinery rehabilitation
are presented below. The analysis has been carried out in constant 1992 U.S. dollars, assuming
fixed assets have an economic life of 20 years, with no residual value.
1.    Processing Capacity. Phase-in
The maximum achievable processing capacity will rise to 15,000 barrels per stream day (bpsd)
of Iran Light API 34, or equivalent Arab Gulf light crude. The refinery should run 330 days a
year, with the remaining 35 days earmarked for annual turnaround. However, the refinery would
operate on average at only 85 percent capacity, being 13,000 bpsd or 584,095 tpa, allowing it
to make up for unscheduled stoppages of up to 50 days in a year. The proposed phase-in
schedules for both Phase I and Phase H are given in the table below:
i199 1224  1995 1996   122  199            1
Phase I (Visbreaker)   0%    0%   60%   80%   90%    100%    100%
Phase I (Thermal     0%    0%    0%    0%   70%        90%    100%
Cracker)
2.    Yield Patern
With optimal management, the present hydroskimming configuration could achieve a yield of
96.5 percent against the present 92.6 percent. Due to the energy consumed by the visbreaker an
cracking facility, the yield would be 95.5 percent under Phase I, and 95.0 percent after Phase II.
The yield patterns are given in the table below.
Refinery Yields - Iran Light (A weight)
Present  Otimizod   Phase IPhase H
LPG            2.0         1.2      1.2      1.3
Gasoline      15.2        15.4     16.5     18.7
Kerosene       9.6        13.2     13.5     14.2
Diesel        21.2       24.2      32.2     37.6
Fuel Oil      44.3       42.5      28.5     19.6
Bitumen        0. 00                3.       lb
I                       22.  29 25.0
3. Domestic and Export Demand
The growth rates for domestic demand after 1993 are projected as follows: Household kerosene
1.5 percent, Gasoline 3.0 percent, Jet Fuel 3.0 percent, LPG 12.0 percent (except in 1993, when
a slower growth of 5.0 percent is assumed), Diesel Oil 4.0 percent, and Fuel Oil 4.0 percent.
More details are given in paras. 2.1 to 2.4. The refinery is assumed to continue its exports of
surplus fuel oil to Mauritius (75-85 KT p.a.). It is further assumed that the 30-40 KT surplus
gasoline output that the refinery would produce after implementation of Phase II will be sold in
neighboring export markets using gasoline grades similar to that of Madagascar.



ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of S
4.    Shipment Coal
Crude is shipped from Arab Gulf (Ras Tanura) to the Toamasina terminal by 50,000 tons (cargo)
vessels at a cost of $13.9 per ton. White products (gasoline, kerosene and diesel) as well as fuel
oil are shipped by 20,000 dwt general purpose vessels. Freight cost from Arab Gulf to
Toamasina is $20 per ton for white products and $17.4 per ton for fuel oil. Freight cost is
estimated at $85 per ton for LPG and $50 per ton for bulk bitumen. Insurance and ocean losses,
estimated at 1.5 percent of the FOB-plus-freight cost for crude and products, are included in the
above freight rates.
5.    Operating Cost
The refinery's economic operating cost (spares and maintenance, materials, purchased utilities,
administrative overheads, labor and provisions), presently estimated at $3.3 million p.a., is
assumed to decline to $2.8 million through a 25 percent reduction in purchases of spares and
materials as a result of improved maintenance resulting from the management contract. Fees for
the management contract, estimated at $2.0 million p.a. plus contingencies over three years, have
been counted in the cost of the rehabilitation investment. The cost of the Toamasina terminal
operation, estimated at $1.3 million p.a., has not been included in the analysis, since it would
be incurred in any case, whether crude or products are imported.
6.    Price Proiections for Petroleum Products
The FOB price of Iran Light crude is assumed to fluctuate in real terms in accordance with the
World Bank's Market Outlook for Major Commodities of October 1992. The crude/refined
products FOB price differentials used in the projections are taken as the average price ratios
posted during the period 1986-1992. The reference prices are FOB Arab Gulf for crude oil, and
FOB Mediterranean for refined products and fuel oil. Naphtha prices have been taken as a
surrogate for LPG, which has no formal reference spot market. The table below shows the
computed average price differentials and their standard deviation.
Average/
Weight %                   prQjection       Standard Deviation
LPG / Naphtha               1.28           0.12
Premium Gasoline 0.40%      1.55           0.11
Kerosene                    1.50           0.14
Diesel Oil                  1.31           0.14
High-Sulphur Fuel Oil       0.63           0.05
7.    Derivation of Economic Prices.
In the economic analysis, the portion of the output sold locally is valued at import parity prices,
i.e. FOB Arab Gulf plus freight, ocean loss and insurance to Toamasina. A discount of $12 per
ton has been assumed for gasoline because of the lower octane and higher lead content of the
domestic gasoline compared with the premium gasoline quoted on the reference Mediterranean
market. Surplus products (fuel oil and some gasoline) are expected to be exported to Mauritius
and La Reunion. SOLIMA is already selling fuel oil to Mauritius. The cost of freight for
shipments to Mauritius and La Reunion is estimated to be the same, whether the cargo originates
from the Arab Gulf or from Toamasina (although the latter route is shorter, it is also less
travelled). Accordingly, products exported by the Toamasina refinery are valued at their FOB
price ex Arab Gulf. Inputs are almost entirely imported and are valued at cost.



ANNEX 6.1
Page 3 of 8
6.    Net Prese  Valu
The net prset value of the refinery rehabilitation has be  esimatd using social rates of
discount of 10 and 12 percent. With a social rate of discount of 10 percent, the refinery
rhbiitaion would have a not present economic value of $8.8 million under Phase I and $20.9
million under Phae I. With a social rate of discount of 12 percent, the net present value would
be $4.9 million under Phase I and $12.7 million under Phase H.
7. Sv A
A sensitivity analysis has been carried out to assau the impact of chages in four critical
vaiables: project cost, refined products/crude price ratios, the volume of domestic demand, and
capacity utilization. It appears that the economic rate of return of the project is not strongly
affected by increase in capital cost. Even with a 20 pct increase in project cost or a 20
percent fall in domestic demand, the rates of return for Phase I and Phase H remain above 13 and
14 percent, respectively. The differental between the FOB price of crude and products has a
stronger impact. When intenational price margins between refined products (gasoline, kerene,
diesel) and cade oil fall by 10 percent, the return on Phase I falls to S.4 percent, and that of
Phase II to 11.4 percent. Finally, should the project run at 80 percent of the scheduled 13,000
bpd capacity, the rate of return falls to 12 percent under Phase I, and 13.6 percent for Phase II.



ANNEX 6.1
Page 4 of 8-
HISTORICAL PRICES OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
CRUDE & PRODUCT PRICES                                              Jan-Oct
USD/Ton, FOB              1986   1987   1218   1212   190   1221   1922   Oct 92
IranLight                  93.1  126.8   98.2  119.2  154.7  127.8  130.5   139.6
Naphta                    109.8  143.0  123.6  141.8  201.8  191.6  176.6   175.7
Premium                   142.3  174.6  156.3  175.1  233.2  222.1  208.5   207.5
Kerosene                  120.3  164.3  147.3  181.8  251.9  215.0  192.0   213.9
Diesel                    100.2  145.0  125.4  159.1  208.1  195.5  176.6   194.8
Fuel Oil (HSFO)            53.6   91.1   62.9   78.7   95.5   75.7   76.7    95.3
Iran Light $/Bbl           12.7   17.3   13.4   16.2   21.1   17.4   17.8    19.0
PRODUCTS I CRUDE PRICE RATIOS                                       Jan-Oct
% weight                  1986   1217   1988   1212   1920   1221   1922   Oct 92   AM 
Naphta                     1.18   1.13   1.26   1.19   1.30   1.50   1.35   1.26   1.28   0.12
Premium                    1.53   1.38   1.59   1.47   1.51   1.74   1.60   1.49   1.55   0.11
Kerosene                   1.29   1.30   1.50   1.52   1.63   1.68   1.47   1.53   1.50   0.14
Diesel                     1.08   1.14   1.28   1.33   1.34   1.53   1.35   1.40   1.31   0.14
High Sulfur Fuel Oil       0.58   0.72   0.64   0.66   0.62   0.59   0.59   0.68   0.63   0.05
Note: The prices are quoted FOB Arab Gulf for Crude Oil and FOB Mediterranean for Refined Products



ANNEX 6.1
Page 5. of 8
ECONOMICS OF REFINERY REHABILITATION
REFINERY SHUT DOWN                     1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2001
Crude Processed KT                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
Imported Crude ($ million)              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
Imported Products                      58.1  59.3  61.7  65.6  69.7  73.9   78.5  83.2  85.3
Export Revenue                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
Annual Economic Cost                   58.1  59.3  61.7  65.6  69.7  73.9   78.5  83.2  85.3
OPTIMIZED HYDROSKIMMING                1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2001
Crude Processed KT                    584.1  584.1  584.1  584.1  584.1  584.1  584.1  584.1  584.1
Imported Crude                         80.0  79.1  79.5  81.7  83.9  86.1   88.3  90.5  89.6
Imported Products                       3.8   4.9   6.1   7.6   9.2  10.9   12.7  14.9  16.8
Export Revenue                        -25.0 -24.0 -23.5 -23.5 -23.5 -23.3  -23.1 -22.9 -22.0
Operating Cost                          3.3   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7    2.7   2.7   2.7
Annual Economic Cost                   62.1  62.7  64.9  68.5  72.4  76.4   80.7  85.2  87.2
Less Import Parity Cost                58.1  59.3  61.7  65.6  69.7  73.9   78.5  83.2  85.3
Diff. Import Parity                   -4.0  -3.3  -3.2  -2.9  -2.7  -2.5   -2.2  -2.0  -1.9
PHASE I CONFIGURATION                  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2001
Crude Processed KT                      292   292   409   467   526   584    584   584   584
Imported Crude ($ million)             40.0  39.5  55.7  65.4  75.5  86.1   88.3  90.5  89.6
Imported Products                      25.1  26.6  11.6   7.5   4.1   1.4    3.0   4.8   6.5
Export Revenue                         -7.5  -7.3  -9.3 -12.1 -15.4 -19.6  -19.2 -18.8 -17.7
Operating Cost                          3.3   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7    2.7   2.7   2.7
Phase I Economic Cost                  60.9  61.5  60.7  63.5  66.9  70.7   74.8  79.2  81.1
Less Import Parity Equivalent          58.1  59.3  61.7  65.6  69.7  73.9   78.5  83.2  85.3
Diff. Import Parity                   -2.7  -2.2   1.0   2.1   2.7   3.2    3.6   4.0   4.1
PHASE II CONFIGURATION                 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2001
Crude Processed KT                      292   292   409   467   514   584    584   584   584
Imported Crude ($ million)             40.0  39.5  55.7  65.4  73.8  86.1   88.3  90.5  89.6
Imported Products                      25.1  26.6  11.6   7.5   0.3   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
Export Revenue                         -7.5  -7.3  -9.3 -12.1 -13.5 -22.3  -21.1 -19.3 -16.6
Operating Cost                          3.3   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7    2.7   2.7   2.7
Phase II Economic Cost                 60.9  61.5  60.7  63.5  63.4  66.5   69.9  74.0  75.8
Phase I Annual Cost                    60.9  61.5  60.7  63.5  66.9  70.7   74.8  79.2  81.1
Differential Phase I                    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.5   4.2    4.9   5.2   5.3
Differential Import Parity            -2.7  -2.2   1.0   2.1   6.3   7.4    8.6   9.2   9.5



ANNEX 6.1'
Page 6 of 8
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Import Parity Cost                          29.1    59.3    61.7    65.6    69.7    73.9    78.5
Phase I Cost of Sales                       30.4    61.5    60.7    63.5    66.9    70.7    74.8
Phase I Investment                           2.3     8.0     4.6     1.2     0.1     0.0     0.0
ERR Phase I / Import Parity       15.7%    -3.6  -10.1   -3.6        0.9     2.6     3.2      3.6
Net Present Value at                $4.9 NPV @ 10%          $8.8
Phase II Cost of Sales                      30.4    61.5    60.7    63.5    63.4    66.5    69.9
Phase II Project Cost                        0.0     0.0    11.5    11.5     0.0     0.0     0.0
ERR Phase II / Import Parity      17.0%    -3.6  -10.1  -15.1  -10.6         6.1     7.4      8.6
Net Present Value at               $12.7 NPV @ 10%         $20.9
Economic Return ($ million)                1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Hydroskimming / Import Parity              -4.0   -3.3   -3.2   -2.9   -2.7   -2.5   -2.2
Phase I /Import Parity                     -2.7   -2.2       1.0    2.1      2.7     3.2     3.6
Phase II / Import Parity                   -2.7   -2.2       1.0    2.1      6.3     7.4     8.6
Economic Return ($ per ton)                1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Hydroskimming / Import Parity              -6.8   -5.7   -5.4   -5.0   -4.6   -4.2   -3.8
Phase I /Import Parity                     -9.4   -7.5       2.5     4.5     5.2     5.5     6.2
Phase II / Import Parity                   -9.4   -7.5       2.5     4.5    12.2    12.7    14.6



ANNEX 6.1
Page 7 of8
SIMULATION OF REFINERY ECONOMICS BASED ON HISTORICAL 'RICES 1986-1992
COVERAGE OF MARGINAL COST
(USD/Ton, border price)      1986    1987    Ill    1989    1922    1221    1922
OptimizedHydroeimming       -11.1    -7.7    -1.1     0.4     2.7    11.6    -0.5
Phas I Configuration         -3.1     0.3     8.0    10.9    16.3    25.9    10.0
Pha II Configuration          3.1     6.5    15.1    19.1    27.5    37.7    18.4
USD/bbl, border prices      19&      1987    12!    1989   122       1221    1922
Optimized Hydrodsimming      -1.5    -1.1    -0.2     0.0     0.4      1.6    -0.1
Phau I Configuration         -0.4     0.0     1.1     1.5     2.2     3.5      1.4
Phau I Configuration          0.4     0.9     2.1     2.6     3.7     5.1      2.5
COVERAGE OF TOTAL COST
(USD/Ton, border price.)     1986    1987    1988    1289    122    1221    12
Optimized Hydrdimming       -16.5   -13.1    -6.5    -5.0    -2.7     6.2    -5.9
Phae I Configuation          -8.5    -5.1     2.6     5.5    10.9    20.5      4.6
Phasn I Configuration        -2.3     1.1     9.7    13.7    22.1    32.3    13.0
USD/bbl, border prices       19m    1287    1288    1212    1222    1221    1922
Optimized Hydroskimning      -2.3    -1.8    -0.9    -0.7    -0.4     0.8    -0.8
Phas I Configuration         -1.2    -0.7     0.4     0.7     1.5     2.8     0.6
Phan eiConfigurmtion         -0.3     0.1     1.3     1.9     3.0     4.4      1.8
IREFIMARG.XLSIA                                                                   1/8/93 5:16 PM



ANNEX 6.1-
Page 8' of 6
SMIULATION OF REFINERY VIABILITY UNDER HISTORICAL PRICES
Coverage of Variable Cost
60.0             .
60.0     --   -    .     .  -----_
40.0    -   -  -     .--.-.--- -               
30.0  -=        -    -. =---------- - -
6. 20.0  ___...___ _                   -       **
* 10.0    --   -     --     -    
-10.0 -
-20.0    -..--- --*. '--*-*--    -.-.---.-..---.........   ......-----.----.
cn ~ ~ ~ ~~c                    C"          C"           CD 
B *ase Case                 Phase I        m       Phase 11
Coverage of Total Coat
70.0                            --         ......--.---         --------.
60.0   -  - -           _. - -=     . .  ......... ..........................   .  .........._   . .....
50.0
40.0                           ...
30.0  __       -                          ... ......  ..       .. _.
e 20.0                       __                           .      ......._ .___. ____._._.7_
10.0                         . ..-...--- ----------  -. - - ---   -   ---.-.-
10.0__                                                          _  _  _   _
-10.0                    . .        .  -.  .......... .. .. --   .  .U~ .
-30.0 ~~~~0                            .
0           0            0                  0                  0
0w          0                                     CD 0  0      0
|~ *Base Case                    Phase I        a        Phase 11
(REFIMARG.XLS]A                                                                         2/17/93   4:38 PM



ANNEX-6.2
Page 1 of 4
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE NEW PETROLEUM LOADINGfUNLOADING
FACILITY AT TOAMASINA
The Present Situation
1.    As mentioned in para 2.13, the existing loading/unloading facilities at the port of
Toamasina are a weak link in the petroleum distribution system, on the grounds of operation,
safety, economics and environment. The facilities are located in the middle of the general cargo
area, and some of the port storage buildings have been built on top of the pipelines. A fire
already occurred in August 1988, but fortunately it did not have serious consequences. Given
the limited space available, the mooring of the tankers is a difficult operation which creates an
unusually high risk of collision with other ships present or entering the port.
2.    Tankers are unloaded through flexible hoses that lie on the bottom of the harbor when
not in use. During operation, failures of the hoses are common, which cause spillages that
pollute the harbor and delays that increase costs. After a failure and at the beginning of each
operation, divers must attach a new rope to the flexible hoses, which creates additional delays.
In addition, the size of the ships that can deliver crude oil to Madagascar is limited to 50,000
tons, thus precluding the advantage of the lower freight rates available in larger tankers.
Economic Benefits
3.    The transfer of the existing petroleum loading/unloading facility is justified on safety and
environmental grounds. However, an economic analysis was undertaken considering the benefits
form using larger tankers, from reduced ship loading/unloading time and from the increasing
manoeuvering flexibility for non-petroleum  cargo in the existing port.  No safety on
environmental benefits are included in this economic analysis.
4.    Deliveries of crude oil to Madagascar are limited to tankers of 50, 000 tons, and
availability of crude oil tankers of these cargo sizes from the Arabian Gulf is extremely limited.
Consequently, a premium is charged for deliveries to Madagascar above those for similar sized
vessels in other major trade routes. The construction of the new loading/unloading facility will
allow the use of tankers of 80,000 - 100,000 tons and produce savings of at least 15 percent over
the transport cost of present tankers are expected. Specialized consultants have estimated that this
would represent about US$2.5 per ton of crude oil delivered.
5.    The contracts for the supply of crude oil and refined products include a premium over
FOB prices plus transport costs, that corresponds to profits, insurance, unloading time,
demurrage cost, risk of operation and other costs. This premium was US$3.80 per ton in 1991
and is expected to decline with the reforms being introduced in the petroleum sector. Consultants
have estimated that a decline of 5 percent over the indicated level (US$0.19 per ton) could be
attributed to the new loading/unloading facility.



ANNEX 6.2
Page 2 of 4
6.      As presently done, the unloading/loading of petroleum products has a negative impact on
the overall operations of the port. This negative impact will increase over time as hydrocarbon
and non-hydrocarbon traffic increases. Consultants have estimated that the transfer of petroleum
loading/unloading facilities will bring benefits to the port that can be estimated at the present time
at 5 percent of actual revenues of the port (US$9.4 million). Therefore, these benefits are
estimated as US$470,000 per year and it is assumed that they increase at 10 percent per year.
Results
7.     The basic data used in the calculation is presented in the attached tables. The internal
rate of return is 12.5 percent. Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to increases in project costs
and estimated at 14.7 percent under both a Phase I and a Phase II configuration, while the net
pre .nt value at a 10 percent discount rate is estimated at US$4.1 million, respectively. A
sensitivity analysis was conducted to assess the effects of an increase in investment costs and
adverse changes in the quantifiable benefits. Should transport benefits decrease to US$2.0 per
ton or should port benefits not increase over time, the project remains economically attractive.
The project is more sensitive to changes in investment costs, yet even a 25 percent increase would
still allow for reasonable economic returns.
New Petroleum Loading/Unloading Fadlity
Sensitivity Analysis
Phase I                      Phase 11
Base Case                              14.7            4.2            14.7           4.1
Cost Increases 25X                     11.9            2.0            11.8           1.9
SavIngs In transport costs             13.0            2.6            13.0           2.6
reduced to US$2.0 per ton                                                                    l
SavIngs In supply pr_miu  reduced      14.5            4.0            14.5           4.0
to USS4015 per ton
BeneIfts for the Port at a             12.5            2.0            12.5           2.0
constant level                                                  _



MADAGASCAR
Petroleum Sector Reform Project
Economic Analysis of the New Petroleum Loading/Unloading Facility at Toamasina
Based on a Phase II Refinery Configuration
(USS Thousands)
. Costs                          1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012    2013
A. Investment Cost             LOOO  3,000 4,000  5,000
B. MakntenasceCosts /                                       22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22              22
C. Residual Value 2/                                                                                                                                        (6,500)
TOTAL COSTS                   L000 3,000  4,000 5.000    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22  (6,478)
II. Benefits
A. Qude lmports ('V  tons)                                 584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584             584
B. Product hports (OO tons)                                  0      0     0      0     9    19    30    43    56    70    84    99   115   131   148           167
C- Reduction in Transport Costs 3/                       1.460  1.460  1.460  1,460  1,460  1,460  1,460  1.460  1.460  L460  1,460  1,460  1,460  1,460  1,460   1,460
D. ReductioninSupplyPrernium4                              111   111   111   111   113   115   117   119   122   124   127   130   L33   136   139             143
E. Benefits for the Port                                   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470             470
TOTAL BENEFrT                                           2,041  2,041  2,041  2,041  2,043  2,045 2047  2,049  2,052 2,054 2,057 2,060  2,063 2,066  2,069   2,073
III. CASH FLOW SIREAM           L=O3 (000)L4.000)(5 OOU) 2.019  2.01    =    2.019  2.021  2.023 2.(1 30    2.O        =    2.035 2.07  2.041 2.044  2.047   &551
Intemal Rate of Return          12.5%
Net Present Value at 10%        S1,987
1/ The replacnent of fleible hoses is not considered i the econonir analysis, because it is similar to the present.
2/ Estimated at 50% of investment cost after 15 years of operatis. The useful life of the new facility is at least 50 yars.
3/ Estimated at US$2.50 per ton of crude oil delvered.
4/ Estimated at US$0.19 per ton of crude oil and refined products delivered.
SENSITIVIIY ANALYSIS
Increase in
1.                           Proioc                  ERR  NPV          3.                 SupplY Prerium        IRR  NPV
Base Cae                                 0%        12.5% $1,987        Base Case                  S019         12.5% $L987
Pessimisti Cm                           20%         10.2%   $218       Pessimistic Case           $0.15        12.3% $1,854                                               |
2.                            Transpon               IRR  NPV          4.                 Port Benefits         IRR  NPV                                                 o.
Base Case                               $2.5       12.5% $1,987        Base Case                    470        12.5% $1,987                                              >
Pessimistic Case                        $2.0        10.6%   $426       Pessimistic Case               0        9.3%  (S525)



MADAGASCAR
Petroleum Sector Reform Project
Economic Analysis of the New Petroleum Loading/Unloading Facility at Toamasina
Based on a Phase I Refinery Configuration
(USS Thousands)
I. Costs                            1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2M9  2010  2011  2012  2013
A. Investmnent Cos                1,000 3.000  4,000 5,000
B. MaintenanceCosts                                           22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22
C. Residual Value 2/                                                                                                                                       (6,500)
TOTALCO)SS                      1,000 3,000  4,000 5,000    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22    22 (6,478)
II. Benefits
A. Qude  mls (MO tos)                                        584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584   584
B. Productlmports(O0tcm)                                      7    15    23    32    43    54    66    79    92   106   120   135  151   168   189   210
C Reduction in Transport costs(3/                           1,460  1,460  1,460  1,460  L460  L460  1,460  L460  1,460  1,460  L460  1,460 L460  1,460  L460  1,460
D. Reduction in Supply Premium 4/                            112   114   115   117   119   121   124   126   128   131   134   137   140   143   147   151
E. Benefits for the Port                                     470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470   470
TOTAL BENEFITS                                            2,043 2,044  2,046 2,047 2,049 2,052 2,054 2,056 2059 2,061  2,064  2,067 2,070  2,073 2,077  2,081
M. CASH FLOW STREAM                WO )0JUM16000=0-00)             2.022   0 2. 2.         Z 2.                  2037         2.042 2.045 2.048 20S   2C5   8559
Internal Rate of Return           12.5%
Net Present Value at 10%          $2,016
1/ The replacement of flexbIe hows is not considered in the cnomnir analysis, becase it is similar to the present.
2/ Estimated at 50% of investnent cost after 15 years of operatiCnL The useful life of the new facility is at least 50 year
3/ Estimated at US$2.50 per ton of crude oil delivered.
4/ Estimated at US$019 per ton of crude oil and refined products delverd.
SENSITIVIY ANALYSIS
Increase in
1.                                      Propct                IRR  NPV         3.                  SupplvPremiun        IRR  NPV
Base Case                                         0%        12.% S2016        Base Case                 S.19         12.5% $2016
Pessimistic Cae                                  20%         10.3%   $248      Pessimstic Case            $0.15        12.4% S1,877
2.                                      Transport             [RR  NPV         4.                  Port Benefits        IRR  NPV                                      M
Base Case                                        $2.        12.5% S2,016       Base Case                    470       12.5% $2,016
0.
Pessimistic Case                                 $2.0       10.6%   S456       Pessimistic Case               0        9.3%  ($495)



ANNEX 6.3
Page 1 of 2
IECONOMICS OF THE, LpG INVESCMENT PROGRAM
The LPG investment program will replace key storage and distribution equipment that has reached
the end of its economic life, and install new equipment necessary to support the growth in demand
made possible by the LPG promotion program. Because of the high cost of shipping LPG in small
batches, the surplus LPG produced by the refinery is not exported but flared with no benefit to the
economy. The economic rate of return of this investment is estimated at 26.7 percent (not counting
environmental benefits), based on the following assumptions:
1.    Demand for LPG
Demand lor LPG with the investment in LPG equipment is projected to increase 5 percent in 1994
and 12 percent per annum thereafter, reaching 6,000 tons in the year 2000. Similar or higher
increases in LPG demand have occured in other African countries where demand has been constrained
by run-down distribution facilities. Demand for LPG without the investment program is projected
to decline by 20 percent per annum.
2.    Marginal cost of su=ly
The production of LPG by the refinery has no opportunity cost since LPG is a by-product that is not
commercially exportable from Madagascar. The marginal cost of distributing LPG in Madagascar
is estimated at $125 per ton, being 50 percent of the price mark-up that is charged by the distribution
network.
3.    Valuation of LPG supply
The LPG supplied to Malagasy customers is valued at $575 per ton (including a 15 percent sales tax),
which is the price they are currently paying.
4. 
New assets are assumed to have an economic life of 15 years with no residual value.
5.    Sensitivity
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the impact of errors in demand forecast and of a
higher marginal cost of supplying LPG. The calculated rates of return for these sensitivity analysis
are given below.
Demand without project declines at 10 percent per annum instead of 20 percent:  22.7%
Marginal cost of supply increases from $125 to $175 per ton:                24.3%
Demand with the LPG investment is 20 percent lower than projected:          20.1%



ANNEX 6. 3
Page 2 of 2
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE LPG INVESTMENT PROGRAM
No LPG investment                  1993      1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Demand                 -20%       2,800     2,240   1,680   1,120    560      0       0      0
Retail price (S per ton)           575        575    575    575    575    575    575    575
Marginal Cost of Supply (S/ton)    (125)     (125)  (125)  (125)  (125)  (125)  (125)  (125)
Net benefit ($/ton)                450        450    450    450    450    450    450    450
Economic contribution (S)       1260000   1008000 756000 504000 252000        _       Q       Q
Situation with LPG investment     1993       1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Demand (tons)                     2,800     3,000   3,300   3,700   4,200   4,700   5,200   6,000
Retail Price (S per ton)           575        575    575    575    575    575    575    575
Marginal Cost of Supply (VSton)    (125)     (125)  (125)  (125)  (125)  (125)  (125)  (125)
Net benefit ($S; n)                450        450    450    450    450    450    450    450
Economic contribution ($)       1260000   1350000 1485000 1665000 1890000 2115000 2340000 2700000
Investment (S)                -4000000  -2000000
Incremental benefit(S)        -4000000  -1658000 729000 1161000 1638000 2115000 2340000 2700000
Economic Rate of Return 26.7%
Sensitivity                                                        ERR
Demand declines by 10 percent p.a. if no investment in LPG equipment  22.7%
Marginal cost of supply increases from $125 per ton to $ 175 per ton  24.3%
Demand with LPG investment is 20 percent lower than projected     20.1%



ANNEX 7.1
Page 1 of 9
(Unofficial translation)
Antananarivo, June 30, 1993
THE PRIME MINISTER, HEAD OF GOVERNMENT
To
Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Director
Department m
,-frica Region
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Subject: Letter of Petroleum Sector Policy
Dear Director:
Within the overall framework of the Structural Adjustment Program, and In an effort to
improve the efficiency of the petroleum sector's contribution to the Malagasy economy and society, the
Government of the Republic of Madagascar undertook to perform an in-depth review of the principles
underlying the sector's operation and management. A number of studies and reviews were carried out,
which served to confirm the obvious: that despite the undeniable good health of the company Solitany
Malagasy (SOLIMA), entrusted with the Government monopoly on imports, refining and distribution
established in 1976, it had become essential to overhaul the system to allow the free play of competition,
taking steps to preserve the gains already made, rehabilitate certain areas, such as refining, set new
ground rules, and invest in other operations designed to improve performance, encourage new operators,
and protect the environment.
With the liberalization of lubricant sales in 1991, and the enactment of an ordonnance
in January 1993 liberalizing all petroleum-sector operations, the Government of Madagascar set in motion
its plan of action for the achievement of four clearly defined objectives:
-     assure the country of reliable oil supply, free of economic or other pressures likely to
destabilize the national economy;
-     ensure such supply while seeking to minimize the country's overall oil bill;
-     develop petroleum  sector operations capable of forming part of Madagascar's
international trade;
-     liberalize petroleum sector operations and encourage the private sector to participate in
them.



ANNEX 7. 1
Page 2 of 9
In its approach to supply, and until the Malagasy petroleum sector becomes competitive,
the Government has decided to handle its oil import operations on the basis of systematic international
competitive bidding, organized with maximum transparency.
In any case, once the research and exploration conducted upstream by the Office Militaire
National des Industries Strategiques (OMNIS) yield positive results, the ground rules will be revised
accordingly.
A number of legislative and regulatory measures have already been enacted:
creating a legal environment favorable to liberalization of the sector;
putting a mechanism in place for the automatic setting of ceiling prices below which
operators are free to price their sales;
-     introducing a specific per liter system of taxation for each product.
The Government therefore intends to restructure SOLIMA to enable it to handle
competition in its commercial activities and to give autonomy to its subsidiaries, such as the rehabilitated
refinery.
I am certain that the petroleum sector reform program, the details of which are attached,
and of which the project submitted to you forms part, will enjoy the technical and financial support of
your institution.
Very truly yours,
Guy Willy Razanamasy



ANNEX 7.1
Page 3 of 9
THE PETROLEUM SECTOR IN MADAGASCAR
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
STRUCTURE OF THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
1.    The Malagasy petroleum sector comprises three types of activities:
a.    supply and distribution of petroleum products with a view to satisfying national demand;
b.    refining, to help reduce the cost of product supplies for the country;
c.    prospecting for hydrocarbons, an activity that has been under way for several decades
now, in the hope of locating reserves that will form the foundation for national oil
production;
d.    liberalizing the activities of the petroleum sector to ensure private sector participation in
these activities.
2.    Petroleum Droduct consumption, currently of the order of 400,000 tla, posted a distinct drop over
the past 10 years (from 410,000 tons in 1979 to 280,000 tons in 1989), but this decline now
seems to have come to an end.
3.    Refining also experienced numerous difficulties and interruptions over the past decade and the
installations are still in very poor shape. In this connection, a rehabilitation program for the
refinery is under study.
INSTITUTIONAL SITUATION AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
4.    Nationalization
All petroleum activities in Madagascar are conducted under the direct control of the State. An
exclusive State monopoly was instituted by Order No. 76-020 bis of June 25, 1976 on all
petroleum or petroleum-related activities:  purchasing, transport, storage, processing and
distribution.
This measure was accompanied by nationalization of all assets of oil companies that had been
operating in Madagascar coupled with establishment of SOLITANY MALAGASY (SOLIMA),
a State oil company.
5.    SOLIMA
SOLIMA is a corporation whose capital is ;00% owned by the Malagasy State. Nevertheless,
under Order No. 76-021 of June 25, 1976 its articles of association do not exclude capital
increases that could be subscribed by other stockholders.



ANNEX 7.1
Page 4 of 9
SOLIMA is charged with implementing the Government's policy in the petroleum sector, but
without directly holding the monopoly of the activities involved.
SOLIMA's articles of association also specify that it can take up participations, establish branches
and conclude service contracts with private enterprises in its field of activity.
6.    Liberalization policy
Up till now SOLIMA has been the sole operator in the field of supply, refining and distribution
of petroleum products for all of Madagascar.
Since 1991, in the context of Madagascar's economic policy, the liberalization of the petroleum
sector has been started with the sale of lubricants, in accordance with Law No. 91-022 of August
12, 1991.
This policy has been confirmed by Order No. 93-002 of January 8, 1993, which liberalized all
petroleum product-related activities in Madagascar.
7.    The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM)
MEM is the governmental organ responsible for formulating the State's policy on oil supply,
refining and distribution, and for supervising the implementation of this policy by SOLIMA.
To help MEM perform this latter function, the State can appoint a controller general who attends
al meetings of SOLIMA's Board of Directors and can block, under certain conditions, execution
of the Board's resolutions if they are not in accordance with government policy.
8.    Hydrocarbon prospecting
As regards prospecting, the State grants permits to private operators who, in the event of a
discovery of commercial importance, will be able to obtain production concessions.
Several private oil companies currently hold exploration permits and are working in the context
of agreements with the Government.
The presence of hydrocarbons has been determined in several places, but no discovery of
commercial significance has yet been made.
9.    The Office Militaire National des Industries StrategiQues (OMNIS)
OMNIS is the government agency responsible for supervising hydrocarbon prospecting and
implementing the State's policy in this sphere. It is the depository of the geological data derived
from the exploration work performed.
Established in 1975, OMNIS reports directly to the President of the Republic. OMNIS has used
World Bank (IDA) credit funds to finance studies to summarize the findings of the exploration



ANNEX 7.1
Page 5 of 9
work carried out and to promotion campaigns targeting major international oil companies to
persuade them to invest in prospecting in Madagascar.
OMNIS is authorized to conclude operating agreements with concession-holding oil companies
and, if warranted, to take participations in mixed oil companies.
BASIC OBJECTIVES OF GOVERNMENT PETROLEUM POLICY
10.   The Government's petroleum policy centers around four permanent basic objectives:
a.    ensuring reliable supply for the country, unaffected by economic or other pressures that
could adversely have an impact on the stability of the national economy;
b.    organizing this supply so as to minimize the country's total bill;
c.    developing petroleum activities capable of integration into international trade.
d.    liberalize petroleum sector operations and encourage the private sector to participate in
them.
During the past 10 years these objectives have been pursued by means of a centralized approach:
the Government or its agencies have participated directly in the determining of the main
orientations to be adopted and in decisionmaking.
During this period the oil bill has represented about 20% of all imports and has been a major
financial burden for the country, especially at times when prices were rising in the international
oil market.
11.   New orientation
The adoption of a new economic policy focusing on openness and liberalization has led the
Government to opt for a new strategy in the petroleum sector.
The sector will have to become more efficient, which means that it will have to change its
institutional structures and mechanisms while still concentrating on the four basic objectives
referred to above.
In this context, the Government will establish a national supervision and control organization to
ensure the free play and good functioning of the petroleum sector.
SUPPLY POLIC
12.   Present position
In the past, because of a chronic foreign exchange shortage, the Government has sought to
arrange, through relationships of a political nature, reliable sources of supply by means of long-



ANNEX27I
Page 6 of 9
term contracts (State-to-State supply agreements). These formulas have proven to be more costly
than obtaining supplies on the spot market, for both crude and refined products.
In recent years, thanks to a certain easing of foreign exchange availability, crude and refined
products have been obtained from new suppliers on a basis of open competition on the
international market.
13.   Supply policy
In order to pursue and further develop these new arrangements, the Government intends:
a.    to conduct all purchasing for SOLIMA, for both crude and refined products, through
international bidding;
b.    to progressively liberalize petroleum product imports, by authorizing other operators to
import these products, either for their own use or for sale.
14.   Bidding procedur
Bids are requested each year for supply of crude and refined products, on a regular basis and
with very open formulas, so as to ensure maximum flexibility in order to obtain the best price
and delivery conditions.
The number of potential suppliers asked to bid has been increased in order to maintain
competition among them and also for considerations of security of supply.
The invitation to bid is precisely drafted, in accordance with the options adopted, so that clear
and easily comparable bids will be received.
iS.   Bid evaluation
Bid opening is public, in the presence of the bidders.
The bid evaluation committee is an ad-hoc committee made up of:
-     representatives of SOLIMA, appointed by its general manager;
-     representatives of the Ministry responsible for Energy;
-     a representative of the Finance Ministry;
-     a representative of the Central Bank;
-     representatives of the Government.
The bid evaluation and contract award committee announces its decision and awards the contract
at the same session. Its decision is final and takes effect without any other administrative
approvals being required.



ANNEX 7.1
Page 7 of 9
MEASURES TAKEN
16.   Legal framewrk
The progressive liberalization of importation and marketing of petroleum products necessitates
revision of the existing legal framework in order to spell out under what conditions the State
monopoly instituted by Order No. 76-020 bis applies.
In this connection, the State affirmed the principle of liberalization of the petroleum sector by
Order No. 93-002 of January 8, 1993: 'Transitional arrangements, specified by decree, will
define the modalities of progressive application of this liberalization.'
Decree No. 93-136 of March 24, 1993, sets out the arrangements for application of the
liberalization order. This decree establishes a transitional period extending up till December 31,
1995, during which importation of sensitive products such as premium gasoline, regular gasoline,
kerosene and diesel will be handled exclusively by SOLIMA.
The decree details the conditions to be met and the procedure to be followed by economic
operators wishing to participate in petroleum sector activities.
17.   Petroleum product prices
In the past, petroleum product prices were set by the Government on the basis of the costs
incurred by SOLIMA.
This system is not well suited for opening of the market and development of competition among
operators. A system of automatic and periodic fixing of ceiling prices was accordingly instituted
by Decree No. 91431 of August 5, 1991.
This system has been applied since May 1992 with respect to the four sensitive products, namely
premium and regular grade gasoline, kerosene and diesel. It is based on the following principles:
a.    actual selling prices can be freely fixed by each operator in a spirit of open commercial
competition, provided they remain below the ceiling set;
b.    the ceiling prices are calculated each month on the basis of the  prices prevailing in the
international oil market, the movement of the FMG/USS exchange rate, and the officially
established rates for storage, transport and distribution, without direct reference to the
actual costs of any particular operator or operators.
This method of price setting, with monthly fixing of ceiling prices based on the international
prices obtaining in the previous month together with annual fixing of official rates by types of
operation (storage, transport, distribution), has been in effect since May 1992.
The new prices are calculated and applied by the operators under their own responsibility. They
are verified subsequently by MEM.



ANNEX 7.1
Page 8 of 9
The parameters of the calculation formula are set by MEM each year, in such a way as to
motivate operators to continually improve their efficiency.
18.   Taxation: Single taxes on petroleum products
The 'ad valorem' tax system has been dropped for petroleum products and replaced by a specific
tax fixed in FMG per liter for each product.
This system, in effect since July 1991, makes it possible to obtain reliable and predictable tax
revenues.
Total tax revenue in 1992 was FMG 30 billion, i.e.... % of total product sales. For 1993, tax
revenue of FMG 60 billion from petroleum products has been included in the budget law.
It should be noted that while kerosene was still subsidized at FMG 80/liter in 1992, this subsidy
was eliminated as of February 1993.
REHABILITATION OF THE REFINERY
19.   The refinY
The presence of a refinery in a country's petroleum product supply system ought to be a twofold
advantage giving:
-     access to direct crude supply and hence to the most important segment of the international
oil market;
-     possibility of lowering the national oil bill.
However, as a result of various technical and financial difficulties the Toamasina refinery has
instead been a burden on the country's petroleum sector over recent years.
Several studies have been made to clarify the role of the refinery and the steps that should be
taken. The most recent of these studies is the one made by KBC Process Technology (United
Kingdom) in 1991, which analyzes several rehabilitation/modernization/expansion alternatives for
the refinery and proposes some urgent measures needed to reestablish normal operating
conditions.
20.   Rehabilitation program
On this basis, the decision has been taken first to rehabilitate the existing installations and to
consider measures for bringing operation back up to normal.
After rehabilitation, the desirability of expansion by addition of a thermocracker will be studied.



ANNEX 7. 1
Page 9 of 9
21.   Management of the refinery
The refinery will be managed as an independent unit and will be required to demonstrate its
economic feasibility under conditions of open competition.
Moreover, the Government is considering the possibility of opening the refinery's capital to other
shareholders in order to raise new capital, strengthen its position in the regional market and
ensure that it operates as cost-effectively as possible.
INSITI=ONAL STRENGT'HENING OF SOLIMA
22.   The Government proposes to restructure SOLIMA in order to:
strengthen its commercial capability;
make its structures more flexible;
make all its units accountable by means of appropriate forms of organization and
management.



ANNEX 8.1
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
SEElD DOCUMENT  AVAIELABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
I.    Ordonnance No. 76-020 bis, June 25, 1976
2.    Ordonnance No. 76-021, June 25, 1976
3.    Ordonnance No. 76-022, June 25, 1976
4.    Loi No. 91-022, August 12, 1991
5.    Ordonnance No. 93/002, January 8, 1993
6.    Dccret No. 93-136, April 1, 1993
7.    Decret No. 91-431, August 13, 1991
8.    Ministere de 1'Energie et des Mines, Arrtt No. 2089, April 17, 1992
9.    Ministere de i'Energie et des Mines- ArrPtc No. 4451/92, July 28, 1992
10.   Industry and Energy Operations Division- Petroleum Sector Report No. 7986-MAG. July
13. 1989, Report prepared by Messrs. Patrido Milan, Thuvara S. Nayar and Michel
Patou
11.   SOLIMA, Madagascar: Study for the improvement in production and distribution of
refined groducts- Phase 1, Report prepared by KBC Process Technology Limited, May
1991
12.   SOLIMA, Madagascar: Study for the improvement in production and distribution of
refined products- Phase 2, Report prepared by KBC Process Technology Limited, July
1991
13.   SOLIMA, Madagascar: Rehabilitation and improvement programme- Project Definition
R= , Report prepared by KBC Process Technology Lmited, October, 1992
14.   Rdpublique de Madagascar: Projet de Rdforme du Secteur Petrolier- Raoport sur la
aspects juridiques et fiscaux de la separation des activites de raffinage et de distribution
de la SOLIMA, Report prepared by Cabinet de Consels D'Entreprises, Madagascar,
AprU 1993
15.   Rdpublique de Madagascar: Etude de faisabilite du ddplacement du terminal petroller du
port de Toamasina, Report prepared by BCEOM, October 1992
16.   Mechanical Inspection Contract- SOLIMA Raffinerie de Tamatavy  Report prepared by
ORTEC, September 1992



ANNEX 8.1
Page 2 of 2
17.   Convention reglant les conditions de I'activite de la societe malgache de raffinerie sur le
territoire de la Rdpublique Malgache
18.   SOLIMA,  Madagascar:  Etude  som lmairea  sdparation  des  activites
raffinage/distribution au sein de la Raffinerie SOLIMA-Toamasina
19.   SOLIMA, Madagascar: Le GPL et la Protection de l'Environnement a Madagascar. May
199



MAP SECTION






IBRD 20035R
V12'                                                                                                                     5 Antsiranana                      2'
MADAGASCAR
Po.e rood.s
Roeues gasdcOndes                                                                               f
AII-nother roosd
Routes accessib/"es eo   sn.                                            NOSY854. -Ambob. <
-   _ _ -  Non-perr-ont roods                                                     .tiiil$                                      no
,IIRodror ds                                                                    $        +
Chessmn e' r.       
, Risers 
A /6r 0   o  r - i m s,>                                                                      \tB                m b  
Airport*                                                                                     ANSIRANA
CNheofieunal coPirel                                                                                  F Ando
w  C&P,1e/e d'{isiA                                                       \                 OB0olono              t
c^r' .vito    Pe                                                   Aisbtj +                            Aop. 
- Fuitroy  boundaries               MohjoAnthloho
"Mifto 4w                      A boobna                                         .6 
, I AM                   A+8hr,drbro         \-,       It
._,_. zrt rn-onolS,fou OIOrnP                 ,I                          0T.roon,, -- 1  '. ooo.ior             onjh__
/Mlo.anootonon                FPo             \ 1DAA      \Ai
1  .-  ^ ^ * H  ^   a M.- ^ \           -        S 
r / t 5 I ~~~~~~~~~~~Andllomnno?   fmoietr ..... t
I                                                    5~~~~~~~~~~~~I i \
I /   ^                       >t                       +Andriorren; .               Fxory  Ahinononio          '..
0Moroi.nob.          _ ~        >    \     S       y    o     n    r     l
5.  (5       Aniokob+ih AozorobeOA            b                          Toamasina
\_~~~~ ~                                Arrlov  7i6   f         t '''<S       v
\ +s   &    Tsiroooomoo, dr             taSna    $ bmony ibmo
Soo-ino o          FAra   momI
g,                               W o_   r dr      Soo.-nondflono><            Andrirrros.np           somoosry
so      Bab-Ts-ribihiM,ndr,no.                       Fro'             rbo t       Al o..b.s /     
6.Io.Ts,r,b,IonW    <N   F                              70           F/ N~F 
'- i ~ )     Antsirobe          /           ' t  Mohonoro
20                                                                                           Moorolom6bo,->4S                                               2,
'-O       A.rbomot.nndrohsss   fAmbositra           r     \so5riko
w;                   ~~~~~~~T fdL I A   y     t                           bhmFsa/
f       Mont_4                                                             - Monon n ory
5.                           _                               Fiananitsory
Mor M          oro _dv                  .0   j eo;o;mblvL,<
oAn&okoobo  ?        At A              A
F +S                                 nkb                 nokro'sr
I                     5     /      ~     ~~~(                     > Pra Kn.OM!TfOS 0              SO    too    150   200
a / F<~XI , v -- -      ~r>- - M-% AILES 0  50        Ioo
S4  /  okorolso\    -/  g7Foroorgon*
Toilior         iB/orn nr
St-y-Sud                                AtM,-n.I< |                      ZAANzANIA                          A N
Zr                                  K               K                            .                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCEAN
24  i    _      7     f.i,IyO+   f     Oaoetno                                                           24-'           ? ;|                    "
Th.   ho,    "WWbBeilo V                                                                                      M L'AWI1
,  o           w                                   Fy          2                 /                              ZAMBA_-E 1N
cnssoa    a rio nste onr\Ambt  4/ xjOG  
~~N_es**ab   ,             t       2 ie s p             o ro,                              /           \$' )    7   t 
Cmun, ',obln~~~~~~.  Arrooniki                             /         enin
-d~~~~ftb.,nd-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~1ZIMBABWEJ                                                                             'nsoor
somom w*ou c nrf arms.                                     Arbosr -                                               
wfsmro nY 4f$oig oa                                                                                                             MADAC,A<'AR
arp ,nofaOo,SWO                                            AmovI1                                           SOUTH
_1                                                                                 AFRI 5                         JUNE19ZLAND
JUNE I1990



