Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
                      Agreement Providing for Amendment
                              and Restatement of
                              Project Agreement
                      (Petroleum Sector Reform Project)
                                  between
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                        SOCIETE "SOLITANY MALAGASY"
                          Dated January 30, 1997
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
                            PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1997 between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
SOCIETE "SOLITANY MALAGASY"(hereinafter referred to as SOLIMA).
     WHEREAS the Association and SOLIMA have agreed to amend the
Project Agreement between the Association and SOLIMA dated August
25, 1993, (hereinafter called the Project Agreement) in the manner
hereinafter set forth;
     WHEREAS the REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR and the Association have
also agreed to amend the Development Credit Agreement between the
Republic of Madagascar and the Association dated August 25, 1993
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) in the manner
set forth in the amended Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith; and
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
     Section 1.01. The Project Agreement is hereby amended and
restated in its entirety so as to read as set forth in the Annex
hereto.
     Section 1.02. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the amended Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
     Section 1.03. If the Development Credit Agreement shall not
Page  2
have come into force and effect by June 30, 1997, this Agreement
and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate,
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes
of this Section. If this Agreement shall terminate under the
provisions of this Section the Project Agreement shall be cancelled.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement
to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                                Regional Vice President
                                                                 Africa
                    SOCIETE "SOLITANY MALAGASY"
                    By /s/ Louis Christian Ntsay
                                               Authorized Representative
                                   ANNEX
                                   To Agreement Providing
                                   for Amendment and
                                   Restatement of Project
                                   Agreement dated
                                   August 25, 1993
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
                          AMENDED AND RESTATED
                           PROJECT AGREEMENT
                   (Petroleum Sector Reform Project)
                                 between
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                   and
                      SOCIETE "SOLITANY MALAGASY"
                        Dated August 25, 1993
              As amended and restated on January 30, 1997
Page  3
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1993, as amended and restated on
January 30 , 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association) and SOCIETE "SOLITANY MALAGASY" (SOLIMA).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven
million three hundred twenty five thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 27, 325,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SOLIMA
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into between the
Borrower and SOLIMA, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent
and made available to SOLIMA on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS SOLIMA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) SOLIMA declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts C, D and E of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices and with
due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Parts C, D and E of the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and SOLIMA shall otherwise
agree, SOLIMA shall carry out Parts C, D and E of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts C, D and E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. SOLIMA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts C, D and
E of the Project.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. SOLIMA shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree and except as provided under Section 3.01 (c) (ii)
of the Development Credit Agreement, SOLIMA shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) SOLIMA shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts C, D and E of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  SOLIMA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts C, D and E of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SOLIMA of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of the foregoing
paragraphs (a) and (b), SOLIMA shall participate in the midterm
review of the Project provided under paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement and, soon thereafter, shall
implement the recommendations of such a review.
     Section 2.06. Delete.
     Section 2.07. SOLIMA shall enter into a convention with SEPT
(the SOLIMA-SEPT Convention), on terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association, for the purposes of defining
the modalities of execution of works and use by all distributors of
petroleum products with respect to the petroleum loading/unloading
facility at Toamasina under Part D of the Project.
                               ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of SOLIMA
     Section 3.01. (a) SOLIMA shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     (b)  Without any restriction to the generality of the foregoing
provisions, until the completion of the Project, SOLIMA shall follow
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association in the
procurement of crude oil and shall furnish to the Association, for
its review, bidding documents related thereto; in addition, SOLIMA
shall furnish to the Association a copy of bid evaluation reports.
     Section 3.02. SOLIMA shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
     Section 3.03. SOLIMA shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) SOLIMA shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition, including
separate records and accounts in respect of Parts  C, D and E of the
Project.
Page  5
     (b)  SOLIMA shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) and records and accounts for
               the SOLIMA Special Account for each fiscal year
               audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for such year as so audited, and
               (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
               Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, SOLIMA shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
               or payment out of the SOLIMA Special Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expen-
               ditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
               cedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
     (d)  [Deleted]
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
SOLIMA shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of SOLIMA shows that the estimated net
revenues of SOLIMA for each fiscal year during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall be, for fiscal year 1995, at least 1.0 times and,
thereafter, 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of
SOLIMA in such year on all debt of SOLIMA, including the debt to be
incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SOLIMA
               maturing by its terms more than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
Page  6
               loan contract or agreement or other instrument
               providing for such debt or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
               (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                    operations and net non-operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
                    including administration, adequate maintenance,
                    taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                    excluding provision for depreciation, other
                    non-cash operating charges and interest and
                    other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from all sources other than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues
                    in (A) above.
          (v)  The term "debt service requirements" means the
               aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
               prepared by SOLIMA not earlier than twelve months
               prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
               which the Association and SOLIMA accept as
               reasonable and as to which the Association has
               notified SOLIMA of its acceptability, provided
               that no event has occurred since such notification
               which has, or may reasonably be expected in the
               future to have, a material adverse effect on the
               financial condition or future operating results of
               SOLIMA.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
               the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
               such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
               other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.03. Until the completion of the Project, SOLIMA shall
not, without prior approval from the Association, commit itself to
any new investment, (other than the investments agreed upon between
SOLIMA and the Association) which would exceed the equivalent of two
million dollars ($2,000,000).
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Page  7
Association and of SOLIMA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date fifteen years after the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii)
of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SOLIMA of
this event.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspen-
sion under the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INDEVAS               248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.       82987 (FTCC)
                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                     197688 (TRT)
     For SOLIMA:
          Solitany Malagasy
          2, avenue Grandidier
          B.P. 140
          Antananarivo
          Madagascar
          Cable address:             Telex:
               SOLIMA                222.22
               Antananarivo
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SOLIMA, or by SOLIMA on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the General Manager or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and SOLIMA shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
Page  8
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                 Africa
               SOCIETE "SOLITANY MALAGASY"
               By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivelo
                                              Authorized Representative
                                  SCHEDULE
                            Implementation Program
1.   For the purpose of the execution of Parts C, D and E of the
Project, SOLIMA shall employ at all times a Project manager, a
mechanical engineer and an accountant, all with responsibilities,
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. In
addition, SOLIMA shall employ an engineering consultant in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   SOLIMA shall fully cooperate with the Borrower with respect to
Part A of the Project.
