Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
                      Agreement Providing for Amendment
                             and Restatement of
                        Development Credit Agreement
                     (Petroleum Sector Reform Project)
                                 between
                         REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                  and
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated January 30, 1997
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend the
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association
dated August 25, 1993, (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) in the manner hereinafter set forth; and
     WHEREAS the Association and Societ "SOLITANY MALAGASY" (here-
inafter referred to as SOLIMA)  have also agreed to amend the Project
Agreement between the Association and SOLIMA, dated August 25, 1993,
(hereinafter called the Project Agreement) in the manner set forth in
the Amended Project Agreement of even date herewith;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE 1
     Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended
and restated in its entirety so as to read as set forth in the Annex
hereto.
     Section 1.02. This Agreement shall become effective upon receipt
by the Association of evidence satisfactory to the Association that:
Page  2
     (a)  the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and the Amended and Restated Project Agreement on behalf
of SOLIMA have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental or corporate actions; and
     (b)  the amendment to the SOLIMA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and SOLIMA, and authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental or corporate actions.
     Section 1.03. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 1.02 (a) of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to
the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association showing:
     (a)  on behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower
in accordance with its terms;
     (b)  on behalf of SOLIMA, that the Agreement Providing for
Amendment and Restatement of Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of
SOLIMA, and is legally binding upon SOLIMA in accordance with its
terms; and
     (c)  on behalf of the Borrower and SOLIMA, that the amendment
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized and
executed by the Borrower and SOLIMA, and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and SOLIMA in accordance with its terms.
     Section 1.04. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower
notice of its acceptance of the evidence and notification required
by Section 1.02 of this Agreement.
     Section 1.05. If this Agreement shall not have come into force
and effect by June 30, 1997, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the
Development Credit Agreement shall be cancelled.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                    By /s/ Mohamady Faharouddine
                                             Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                               Regional Vice President
                                                                Africa
Page  3
                                  ANNEX
                         To Agreement providing
                           for Amendment and
                        Restatement of Development
                          Credit Agreement dated
                             August 25, 1993
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
                          AMENDED AND RESTATED
                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
                  (Petroleum Sector Reform Project)
                                between
                        REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                 and
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated August 25, 1993
              As amended and restated on January 30, 1997
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1993, as amended and restated on
January 30, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has stated in a letter, dated June 30, 1993,
its policies and objectives designed to improve the petroleum sector
in its territories (the Statement of Petroleum Sector Reform Policy);
     (C)  Parts C, D and E of the Project will be carried out by
Socite "SOLITANY MALAGASY" (SOLIMA) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to SOLIMA a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SOLIMA;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  4
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated September 21, 1989, October 13, 1989, June
17, 1991, April 5, 1991 and December 9, 1991 between the Borrower and
the Association;
     (b)  "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Socite "SOLITANY MALAGASY" (SOLIMA), of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
     (d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and SOLIMA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment;
     (e)  "MEM" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for energy
and mines;
     (f)  "SOLIMA" means Socite "SOLITANY MALAGASY", a state company
established and operating pursuant to its Statutes;
     (g)  "SOLIMA's Statutes" means the statutes of SOLIMA, set
forth in the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 76-021 dated June 25, 1976,
as amended from time to time;
     (h)  "SEPT" means the Socite d'Exploitation du Port de
Toamasina, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Dcret No. 76-430, dated December 4, 1976, as amended by the
Borrower's Dcret No. 85-282, dated September 4, 1985; and
     (i)  "SOLIMA-SEPT Convention" means the convention entered
into between SOLIMA and SEPT pursuant to Section 2.07 of the
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the SOLIMA-SEPT Convention.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-seven million three hundred twenty five
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27, 325,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
Page  5
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the name of
MEM (the MEM Special Account) and a special deposit account in the
name of SOLIMA (the SOLIMA Special Account) in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15,
commencing December 15, 2003 and ending June 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
Page  6
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. SOLIMA is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Parts C, D and E of the Project for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Part A of the Project through MEM
               with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity
               with appropriate administrative, engineering and
               financial practices and with due regard to
               ecological and environmental factors and shall
               provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
               services and other resources required for such Part
               of the Project; and
         (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its
               other obligations under the Development Credit
               Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SOLIMA to
               perform all its obligations set forth in the
               Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
               taken all action, including the provision of
               funds, facilities, services and other resources,
               necessary or appropriate to enable SOLIMA to
               perform such obligations, and shall not take
               or permit to be taken any action which would
               prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  (i)  The Borrower shall, under a subsidiary loan agreement
               to be entered into between the Borrower and SOLIMA,
               under terms and conditions which shall have been
               approved by the Association:  (A) relend to SOLIMA
               a portion of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
               to Categories (2) (b), (3) and (4) of the table set
               forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
               ment, at an interest rate of eight percent (8%) per
               annum, with the principal to be repaid in twenty
               years including a five-year grace period, and with
Page  7
               SOLIMA bearing the cost of fluctuations in the
               currencies so relent to it; and (B) make available
               to SOLIMA, on a grant basis, the portion of the
               proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category 2 (c)
               of said table.
         (ii)  [Deleted]
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts C, D and E of the Project shall be carried out
by SOLIMA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  [Deleted]
                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section in respect of Part A of
               the Project, including those for the MEM Special
               Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
               dance with appropriate auditing principles con-
               sistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after
               the end of each such year, a certified copy of
               the report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  8
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
               payment out of the MEM Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
               cedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than November
30, 1993, and thereafter not later than September 30 of each year,
until the completion of the Project, exchange views with the
Association with regard to petroleum products prices and taxes
applicable in the Borrower's territories; and (b) establish and
maintain said prices and taxes, taking into account the results
of such exchange of views.
                                ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  SOLIMA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SOLIMA will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  SOLIMA's Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or financial condition of SOLIMA or the
ability of SOLIMA to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SOLIMA or for the suspension of any of its operations
without prior arrangements satisfactory to the Association for
the transfer to another entity of its functions with regard to
the carrying out of Parts C, D and E of the Project.
     (e)  A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Statement of Petroleum Sector Reform Policy, or a
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and SOLIMA; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                               ARTICLE VI
Page  9
                      Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and SOLIMA;
     (b)  the Project coordinator referred to in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been appointed;
     (c)  the Project manager, the mechanical engineer, the
accountant and the engineering consultant have been employed, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement; and
     (d)  [Deleted]
     (e)  standard bidding documents for the procurement of crude
oil, acceptable to the Association, have been adopted by the
Borrower and SOLIMA.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SOLIMA and is legally binding upon SOLIMA in accordance
with its terms;
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and SOLIMA and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and SOLIMA in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as
representative for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Antananarivo
          Madagascar
          Cable address:                Telex:
               MINFIN                   22489
               Antananarivo
     For the Association:
Page  10
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                    By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivelo
                                              Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                 Africa
                                  SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of
the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category                 SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
Borrower's Expenditures
(1)  Consultants' ser-           1,340,000         100%
     vices and training
     for Part A of
     the Project
SOLIMA's Expenditures
(2)  Works:                                        100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures
                                                   and 80% of local
                                                   expenditures
     (a)  [Deleted]
Page  11
     (b)  for Part C of          6,140,000
          the Project
     (c)  for Part D of          9,530,000
          the Project
(3)  Equipment and               5,000,000         100% of foreign
     materials                                     expenditures
(4)  Consultants'                1,500,000         100%
     services and
     training for Parts
     C and E of  the
     Project
Miscellaneous
(5)  Refunding of                  815,000         Amounts due
     Project                                       pursuant to
     Preparation                                   Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                       of this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 3,000,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 27,325,000
                                ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  [Deleted]
     (c)  in respect of Category (2) (b), until: (i) the open access
system included in Part A (b) of the Project shall have been
established with operating rules satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) the national regulatory authority referred to in Part A (c)
of the Project shall have been established with operating rules
satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) the Borrower shall have
taken all steps required to allow refined petroleum products prices
to reflect differential transport and storage costs in the
different regions of the Borrower's territories; and
     (d)  in respect of Category (2) (c), until: (i) agreements have
been reached between the Borrower and the Association on a satis-
factory mitigation plan and its implementation, including an oil
spill contingency plan; (ii) the SOLIMA-SEPT Convention shall have
been executed on behalf of SOLIMA and SEPT; (iii) [deleted]; and (iv)
import of refined petroleum products shall have been liberalized.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) open up the petroleum
sector to private sector participation and create an appropriate
framework for a competitive environment; (b) support the basic
Page  12
infrastructure investments required to increase operational efficiency
and to attract private operators and investors; and (c) develop
institutional capacity for the efficient regulation of the petroleum
sector.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Liberalization and Support to Privatization of the Petroleum
          Sector
     (a)  Restructuring and corporatization of SOLIMA and eventual
private sector participation in the capital.
     (b)  Establishment and operation of a system, with clear and
transparent rules, of open access by all operators to key
infrastructure facilities for loading, storage and transport of
petroleum products, and the carrying out of a training program
relating thereto.
     (c)  Establishment and operation of a national regulatory
authority to oversee the competitiveness and the adequate functioning
of the petroleum sector and the setting up of minimum technical,
safety and environmental standards applicable to all operators,
and the carrying out of a training program relating thereto.
Part B:   SOLIMA's Refinery
     [Deleted]
Part C:   Petroleum Storage and Transport Infrastructure
     Increasing the efficiency and reliability of petroleum supply
through:
     (a)  the acquisition of about 18 rail tankers and other minor
equipment;
     (b)  repairs to existing crude and product storage tanks at
Toamasina;
     (c)  replacement of pipelines from the port of Toamasina to the
storage facilities;
     (d)  improvement in the petroleum unloading facilities, including
the construction of a pontoon at Mahajanga and construction of a
pipeline at Manakara; and
     (e)  carrying out of studies to identify faster and safer methods
to unload petroleum products and the acquisition of software packages
to improve planning of transport and distribution.
Part D:   Petroleum Loading/Unloading Facility at Toamasina
     Construction of a petroleum loading/unloading facility at the
port of Toamasina, consisting of a dolphin mooring and related
pipelines.
Part E:   LPG Promotion Program
     Carrying out of a promotion program for the sale of butane gas
(LPG) for urban household cooking energy use, including the acqui-
sition of bottles, the construction of additional storage capacity,
the rehabilitation of existing filling plants and the acquisition
of transport equipment.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
Page  13
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
     (a)  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the
successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay
by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association,
one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to
the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall
not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
     (b)  In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.   Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third party.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Minor equipment for storage and transport under Part C of the
Project and for the LPG promotion program under Part E of the
Project, estimated to cost between the equivalent of $100,000 and
$500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from a list of potential bidders
acceptable to the Association and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 hereof).
2.   Items or groups of items for equipment and spare parts estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.   [Deleted]
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
Page  14
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of a Special Account in
respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with
the other information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the
Project and SOLIMA in carrying out Parts C, D and E of the Project,
the Borrower and SOLIMA shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.  For complex, time-
based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Asso-
ciation review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection pro-
cedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of con-
sulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                         Implementation Program
1.   Project Coordination
     The Directorate of Energy of MEM shall be responsible for the
overall administration of the Project. For said purpose and for the
execution of Part A of the Project, the Minister for Energy and
Mines shall appoint, and thereafter maintain in functions, a
Project coordinator under terms of reference and with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Page  15
2.   Part A of the Project
     (a)  Not later than June 30, 1997, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its review and comments, a study for the
establishment and operation of the system of open access included
under Part A (b) of the Project, and thereafter shall implement the
recommendations of said study, as determined in agreement with the
Association.
     (b)  [Deleted]
     (c)  The Borrower shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1997,
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, detailed
proposals for the restructuring of SOLIMA; (ii) adopt a restruc-
turing plan on the basis of said proposals; and (iii) thereafter
implement said restructuring plan.
     (d)  Not later than June 30, 1997, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its review and comments, a study for the
establishment and operation of the authority referred to in Part A
(c) of the Project, and thereafter shall take all necessary steps
to establish said authority.
3.   Project Midterm Review
     The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1997, carry out
jointly with the Association, and with the participation of SOLIMA,
a midterm review of the Project and, soon thereafter, shall implement
the recommendations of such a review. In order to facilitate this
review, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association,
not later than four weeks before the scheduled date of this review,
a report of Project activities of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested. The review shall
cover, inter alia: (a) an assessment of the restructuring of SOLIMA
operations; (b) the functioning of the competitive market in the
petroleum sector; (c) the pricing and taxation of petroleum products;
and (d) overall Project performance against established and agreed
key performance indicators.
                              SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) Category (1) in
the case of the MEM Special Account; and (ii) Categories (2), (3)
and (4) in the case of the SOLIMA Special Account, set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures inrespect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount
equivalent to $500,000 for the MEM Special Account, and (ii) an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 for the SOLIMA Special Account, to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  16
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into a Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for
               deposits into a Special Account at such intervals as
               the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
               payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request, the
               Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
               a Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown
               by said documents and other evidence to have been
               paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
a Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
a Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Associa-
tion may request; or (B) deposit into a Special Account (or, if
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
Page  17
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into a Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation, in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
