OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
Project Agreement
(Petroleum Sector Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE "SOLITANY MALAGASY"
Dated           t, 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2538 MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            L " A LA S      , 1993, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SOCIETE
"SOLITANY MALAGASY" (SOLIMA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six
million   seven   hundred    thousand  Special   Drawing   Rights
(SLR 36,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SOLIMA
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into between the
Borrower and SOLIMA, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent
and made available to SOLIMA on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SOLIMA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SOLIMA declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts
B, C, D and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in
conformity   with   appropriate  administrative,   financial  and


﻿-2-
engineering practices and with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Parts B, C, D and E of the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and SOLIMA shall
otherwise agree, SOLIMA shall carry out Parts B, C, D and E of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts B, C, D and E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. SOLIMA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and   schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance   and  land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts B, C, D and E of the Project.
Section 2.04. SOLIMA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree and except as provided under Section 3.01 (c) (ii)
of the Development Credit Agreement, SOLIMA shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SOLIMA shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   SOLIMA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SOLIMA of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of the foregoing
paragraphs (a) and (b), SOLIMA shall participate, and shall cause
SOLIMA Subsidiary to participate, in the midterm review of the
Project provided under paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, soon thereafter, shall implement and cause
SOLIMA Subsidiary to implement the recommendations of such a review
within its competence and the competence of SOLIMA Subsidiary.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association and SOLIMA shall
otherwise agree, SOLIMA shall take all steps, within its powers,
necessary to ensure that, upon completion of Part B (a) of the
Project, the facilities included in Part B (a) of the Project and
all assets and liabilities relating thereto shall have been
transferred to SOLIMA Subsidiary, on terms and conditions which will
enable SOLIMA to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement in
respect of SOLIMA Subsidiary.
Section 2.07. SOLIMA shall enter into a convention with SEPT
(the SOLIMA-SEPT Convention), on terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association, for the purposes of defining
the modalities of execution of works and use by all distributors of
petroleum products with respect to the petroleum loading/unloading
facility at Toamasina under Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SOLIMA
Section 3.01. (a) SOLIMA shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
(b)   Without any restriction to the generality of the
foregoing provisions, until the completion of the Project, SOLIMA
shall follow competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association in the procurement of crude oil and shall furnish to the
Association, for its review, bidding documents related thereto; in
addition, SOLIMA shall furnish to the Association a copy of bid
evaluation reports.
Section 3.02. SOLIMA shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals


﻿-4-
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
Section 3.03. SOLIMA shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE -V
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SOLIMA shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition  and   SOLIMA  Subsidiary's  operations  and   financial
condition, including separate records and accounts in respect of
Parts B, C, D and E of the Project.
(b)   SOLIMA shall:
(i)   have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) and records
and accounts for the SOLIMA Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, SOLIMA shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at     least one year after    the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the SOLIMA
Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
(d)   SOLIMA shall cause SOLIMA Subsidiary to:
(i)   have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and' related statements) for each
fiscal   year  audited,   in   accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said


﻿-6-
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SOLIMA and SOLIMA Subsidiary shall not, respectively, incur
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and
expenditures of SOLIMA and SOLIMA Subsidiary shows that the
estimated net revenues of SOLIMA and SOLIMA Subsidiary for each
fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be, for
fiscal year 1995, at least 1.0 times and, thereafter, 1.5 times the
estimated debt service requirements of SOLIMA and SOLIMA Subsidiary
in such year on all debt of SOLIMA and SOLIMA Subsidiary, including
the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SOLIMA
and SOLIMA Subsidiary maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A)   the  sum  of revenues from    all sources
related to operations and net non-operating
income; and


﻿-7-
(B)   the  sum  of   all  expenses  related   to
operations    including    administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on
debt.
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of rev s in (A) above.
(v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by SOLIMA and SOLIMA Subsidiary not
earlier  than   twelve  months   prior  to   the
incurrence of the debt in question, which the
Association, SOLIMA and SOLIMA Subsidiary accept
as reasonable and as to which the Association has
notified SOLIMA and SOLIMA Subsidiary of its
acceptability,  provided   that  no  event   has
occurred since such notification which has, or
may reasonably be expected in the future to have,
a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of SOLIMA
and SOLIMA Subsidiary.
(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such


﻿-8-
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. Until the completion of the Project, SOLIMA and
SOLIMA Subsidiary, respectively, shall not, without prior approval
from the Association, commit themselves to any new investment,
(other than the investments agreed upon between SOLIMA, SOLIMA
Subsidiary and the Association) which would exceed the equivalent of
two million dollars ($2,000,000).
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SOLIMA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i)   the  date  on  which   the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SOLIMA
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the


﻿-9-
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For SOLIMA:
Solitany Malagasy
2, avenue Grandidier
B.P. 140
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                Telex:
SOLIMA                    222.22
Antananarivo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SOLIMA, or by SOLIMA on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as
the General Manager shall designate in writing, and SOLIMA shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                           A(Lao
C-L C     Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIETE "SOLITANY MALAGASY"
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.    For the purpose of the execution of Parts B, C, D and E of the
Project, SOLIMA shall employ at all times a Project manager, a
mechanical engineer and an accountant, all with responsibilities,
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. In
addition, SOLIMA shall employ an engineering consultant in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement. For the purposes of Part B (b) of the
Project, SOLIMA shall employ, under a management contract satis-
factory to the Association, a team of at least three experts
specialized in refinery management, operations and maintenance, in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement. Said management contract shall ensure,
inter alia, the training of SOLIMA Subsidiary personnel and an
adequate transfer of technology to the Malagasy staff due to take
over the functions of said experts.
2.    SOLIMA shall fully cooperate with the Borrower with respect to
Part A of the Project and shall take all necessary steps, within its
powers, for the setting up of SOLIMA Subsidiary, referred to in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


