                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 27060

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (CPL-39500)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                              TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC

                                      OF PAKISTAN

                                          FOR A

                       TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND
                          PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT




                                     December 18, 2003




Global Information and Communication Technologies
South Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 30, 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
                           Rs 1 = US$ 57.80
                          US$ 1 = 0.0173

                        FISCAL YEAR
                           July 1 - June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

   APC                Access Promotion Contribution
   CPP                Calling-Party-Pays
   FAB                Frequency Allocation Board
   GOP                Government of Pakistan
   HF                 High Frequency
   ISP                Internet Service Provider
   IT                 Information Technologies
   ITU                International Telecommunications Union
   LRTS               License Regulation and Tariff System
   MOC                Ministry of Communications
   MOITT              Ministry of IT and Telecommunications
   MOST               Ministry of Science and Technology
   MOU                Memorandum of Understanding
   MTR                Mid-Term Review
   NCC                National Control Center
   NFMMS              National Frequency Management and Monitoring System
   O&M                Operation and Maintenance
   OFTEL              Office of Telecommunications
   PCO                Public Calling Office
   PSDP               Public Sector Development Programme
   PTA                Pakistan Telecommunications Authority
   PTC                Pakistan Telecommunications Corporation
   PTCL               Pakistan Telecommunications Corporation Limited
   PTML               Pakistan Telecommunications Mobile Limited
   UHF                Ultra High Frequency
   USF                Universal Service Fund
   VHF                Very High Frequency
   WLL                Wireless Local Loop

                 Vice President:     Praful Patel
              Country Director       John W. Wall
               Sector Manager        Pierre Guislain
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Ritin Singh

                                           PAKISTAN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
 1. Project Data                                                                    1
 2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
 3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
 4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
 5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
 6. Sustainability                                                                11
 7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
 8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
 9. Partner Comments                                                              15
 10. Additional Information                                                       18
 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
 Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
 Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
 Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P034101                                                  Project Name: PK-TELECOM REG & PRIVAT
Team Leader: Ritin Singh                                             TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 19, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: PK-TELECOM REG & PRIVAT                                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-39500
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and
                            privatization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/01/1993                                     Effective: 01/31/1996                01/31/1996
     Appraisal: 07/24/1995                                         MTR: 08/01/1997                  02/15/1998
      Approval: 11/09/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/1999                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Pakistan/Ministry of Communications; PTA; FAB
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph Wood
Country Director:               John W. Wall                                   Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:                 Pierre A. Guislain                             Per Ljung
Team Leader at ICR:             Ritin Singh                                    Mihkel Sergo
ICR Primary Author:             Ritin Sigh; Carlos Gomez;
                                Rajesh B. Pradhan


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the project were defined in the context of an urgent need to build institutional and
regulatory capacity for the telecommunication sector in Pakistan. The Government of Pakistan (GOP) had
recognized the need to reform the sector by starting Pakistan Telecommunications Corporation's (PTC)
privatization process in 1994, and by promulgating a Telecommunications Ordinance in 1995. The latter
aimed to a) expand and improve the infrastructure, b) facilitate new investment and competition by
establishing an enabling legal and regulatory framework, and c) encourage increased private sector
participation.

The primary objective of the project was to support the reform and efficient development of the Pakistan
telecommunication sector by implementing (a) a suitable regulatory framework for both public and private
telecommunications operators, and b) the efficient allocation and use of the radio spectrum. More
specifically, the project was to assist in establishing the Pakistan Telecommunications Authority (PTA) and
Frequency Allocation Board (FAB). Through its regulatory activities, PTA would promote competition in
the provision of telecommunication services and increase private sector participation. The FAB would
provide the efficient management and allocation of the radio frequency spectrum for private and public use.
Even though the project title implies direct support to Pakistan Telecommunications Corporation Limited's
(PTCL) privatization process, it did not provide any direct assistance as the GOP had already contracted
privatization transaction advisors from its own resources. However, the project supported PTA in
addressing key regulatory issues that were critical to facilitate the privatization of PTCL.

Under the GOP's new economic reform agenda, there was a major effort to reform and privatize key state
owned enterprises, including telecommunications. The project was in accordance with the Bank's Pakistan
Country Assistance Strategy for 1995, which indicated the need to support a more competitive environment
for private investment and accelerated growth. It became the first Bank lending operation to focus
exclusively on regulatory reform in the telecommunications sector, following the publication of the Bank's
new Operational Policy 4.50 in 1995.


3.2 Revised Objective:

Objectives were not revised.


3.3 Original Components:

The project was designed to achieve its objectives through the following four components:

   l A technical assistance component for PTA and FAB, which included the adoption of a "technical
        cooperation arrangement" with a reputable regulatory agency. Under the arrangement, PTA and
        FAB's priority tasks were to adopt appropriate organizational structures for their entire range of
        regulatory functions. The component also provided for 48 expert-months of technical assistance to
        PTA and FAB for project implementation and for 24 expert-months to FAB during its first year of
        operation to build operational and maintenance capabilities.

   l A staff-training component for PTA and FAB was incorporated in the provision of technical




                                                       - 2 -

        assistance through the arrangement of relevant courses and seminars in Pakistan, study trips
        abroad, and training for the operation and maintenance of the acquired equipment by its suppliers.
        Private firms, universities and associations, dealing with specialized regulatory issues and general
        regulatory methods, were to offer the seminars and courses. There would be research fellowships
        at universities for the study of regulatory and telecommunications issues and a tour of regulatory
        agencies in other countries. In addition, regular employee training in nonspecialized functions
        (e.g., computer literacy) was included in PTA and FAB's operational budgets.

   l Procurement and installation of a National Frequency Management and Monitoring System
        (NFMMS), which consisted of a) central administrative facilities at Islamabad, b) regional
        licensing offices, c) a satellite monitoring facility at Islamabad, d) a network of fixed and mobile
        radio frequency monitoring stations to cover the regions of the country where most of the wireless
        networks are operating, and e) equipment for a type acceptance laboratory. The system was
        designed as an integrated network that would provide both administrative (mostly licensing) and
        technical facilities (frequency planning, radio spectrum monitoring, etc.) and could be easily
        expanded in the future with increased use of spectrum.

   l A sector policy reform component that supported GOP's sector reform program and facilitated the
        privatization process (e.g., tariffs, demand management, quality of service standards, etc.)

The components focused on building technical and regulatory capacity for PTA and FAB. By embarking
on a "technical cooperation agreement" with a reputable regulatory agency, PTA and FAB would get
hands-on experience on how to effectively perform their regulatory functions. A comprehensive training
program would provide both entities with the necessary technical skills to perform their functions
adequately. Finally, the installation of a radio spectrum management and monitoring system would allow
FAB to monitor, manage and allocate the radio frequency spectrum efficiently.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were revised to include the following consulting assignments in the sector policy reform
component:

   l Consultancy for deregulation of the telecommunications sector basic services (fixed lines) to allow
        private sector entry and competition, which would include the formulation of a deregulation policy
        and its implementation.

   l Consultancy to support MOST in formulating and implementing its ICT development strategy.


At the request of the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST), the Bank approved a selective
extension of the closing date for a third time to finance the deregulation policy and strategic implementation
study. This study facilitated the GOP's review and adoption of the progressive telecommunications policy.
In addition, this provided the Bank leverage in its policy dialogue with the GOP in pursuing the adoption of
an open entry policy.

During project preparation and most of the implementation period, the Ministry of Communications
(MOC) was in charge of the telecommunications sector, in addition to roads, ports, and post. In March
2002, the GOP decided to transfer the telecommunications sector to MOST, which was also in charge of
the Information Technology (IT) sector. Given the importance of the IT and telecommunications sectors
for Pakistan's development, in December 2002, the GOP created the Ministry of Information Technology


                                                      - 3 -

and Telecommunications (MOITT), which is now responsible for the telecommunications portfolio.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall achievement of the project objectives is rated as satisfactory. Since the GOP promulgated the
Telecommunications Ordinance and initiated the project in 1995, the sector performance has improved.
The establishment of PTA and FAB has strengthened the sector regulatory framework, and the installation
of the NFMMS has improved frequency management and monitoring (refer to section 4.1b). In addition,
PTA's enforcement has been effective in making PTCL meet most of its license and performance
conditions, such as providing access to a public telephone for all communities with population of 1,000 or
more. Because of PTA's introduction of the Calling-Party-Pays (CPP) regime in 2001, the mobile market
has experienced substantial growth (refer to Figure 1). According to PTA, the total number of subscribers
is expected to reach over 5 million by the end of 2004, from about 0.35 million by the end of 2000. The
project also provided leverage to the Bank in engaging policy dialogue and pursuing sector reform.
Consequently, the GOP announced in July 2003 an open entry deregulation policy, which if effectively
implemented, will transform the sector into a fully competitive market.

                Figure 1 - Penetration levels of telecommunications services in Pakistan



                                             3.5

                                             3.0

                                             2.5                                       Fixed line
                inhabitants
                                             2.0
                           100

                              per            1.5
                                                                                                Cellular
                                             1.0

                                             0.5
                                 Lines/users                                                   Internet
                                             0.0
                                                     1995     1996   1997 1998   1999 2000 2001     2002 2003*


                                            Source: PTA, * June 2003


Despite these achievements, difficulties in the implementation of the project caused by unforeseen political
and economic factors, curtailed the progress of the GOP's sector reform. As a result, the project did not
have the expected impact on PTA and FAB's institutional capacity.



                                                                            - 4 -

a) Implementing a suitable regulatory framework for both public and private telecommunications
operators

The project played an important role in establishing the regulatory framework in the sector. It assisted in
the creation of PTA and FAB and its appointment of the Chairman and members. The GOP established
PTA to cover regulatory issues, and a separate entity, FAB, to allocate, manage, and monitor spectrum due
to concerns with security issues related to spectrum use. The separation of regulatory functions has
required close coordination between PTA and FAB in the spectrum management and monitoring. To
reinforce PTA's independence from the sector ministry, the Cabinet Secretariat has oversight over PTA
since October 2002. The GOP recognizes the need to review the functional and legal status of FAB within
the sector institutional framework (section 6.1). Currently, FAB continues to report to the MOITT, but
also maintains a functional relationship with PTA, which defines spectrum pricing policy and requests FAB
to allocate spectrum.

The project provided funds for PTA to conduct studies and participate in various training programs to
improve its regulatory capacity and technical abilities in areas such as interconnection and licensing.
Furthermore, the project assisted MOST in defining and implementing its deregulation policy for basic
telecommunications services, issued on July 13, 2003, which will allow free entry of new private operators
to compete with PTCL. The policy's key objectives are to a) increase service choice for customers of
telecommunication services at competitive and affordable rates, b) promote infrastructure development
through increased private investment, and c) increase rural access. Consultants are assisting GOP in the
design and licensing of new telecommunications service providers. The new licenses are expected to be
issued to operators by April 2004. In addition, GOP has appointed another consultant to assist in the
preparation of its mobile policy to introduce additional competition in this market segment. The work also
includes the review of license terms and conditions of existing mobile operators, and the associated
spectrum assignment issues. The new mobile operator licenses are expected to be issued by April 2004.

As a result of the project, the institutions now perform most of their regulatory functions, promoting the
entry of new private operators and facilitating competition in all markets opened to competition. The
following paragraphs summarize some of the regulatory measures taken by PTA during the period of the
project.

PTA's key regulatory measures (1996-2002)

   l Initiated PTCL's tariff rebalancing process, which has resulted in an overall reduction of 37% in
        the nationwide call rates, and 55% for international call rates. Conversely, local call charges have
        increased 60% and rental line rates have increased 4 times during 1996-2002 period.

   l Introduced substantial changes to the regulation of the cellular market to promote its growth,
        including the reduction of the cellular airtime ceiling scheme, the Calling-Party-Pays rate, leased
        line charges and spectrum charges. PTA also allowed the introduction of the prepaid card service
        in 1999.

   l Issued interconnection guidelines for arrangements to be negotiated between the licensed operators,
        with the possibility of regulatory intervention only arising if the relevant licensed operators are
        unable to agree on their interconnection arrangements.

   l Created mechanisms through which it assesses and monitors the quality of different



                                                      - 5 -

         telecommunication services offered by its licensees. PTA's general policy of creating consumer
         awareness through the regular disclosure of quality benchmarks and the performance of operators
         would contribute to create competitive pressures not only in pricing but also in quality of service.

   l Established a dedicated complaint cell that handles all incoming complaints and refers them to
         relevant departments for further action.

Although the project did not directly support the planned partial privatization of PTCL, it is an important
component of Pakistan's telecommunications sector reform. Despite the continuous efforts by the GOP,
the privatization of PTCL has not been concluded. In 1994, the GOP issued an ordinance to sell 11.9% of
PTCL's shares to domestic investors in form of vouchers. Thereafter, the GOP attempted twice to sell a
26% stake to a strategic investor. The first attempt was not concluded due to unrealistic expectations of
the perceived market value, and the second attempt failed due to the lack of foreign investors' interest in the
fixed line business. In both cases, the political and economic environment, and the global market
conditions were also a contributing factor for the privatization failure.

The project supported PTA in addressing key regulatory issues, such as tariff rebalancing, that are critical
to facilitate the privatization of PTCL. Given the recent announcement of the deregulation policy, the GOP
has recognized the importance of moving forward with the PTCL's privatization effort in parallel with the
policy implementation. The GOP continues to place high priority in the privatization of PTCL. The GOP
is currently reviewing PTCL restructuring options to ensure its successful privatization. At the request of
the GOP, the Bank has recruited a restructuring expert to assist the GOP in assessing restructuring options.


b) Supporting the efficient allocation and use of the radio spectrum

The capacity of FAB to monitor, manage and allocate the radio spectrum has improved due to the
acquisition of the NFMMS and the training of key staff for its effective operation. Previously, the
frequency was allocated by referring to manual records, and the monitoring and management of the radio
spectrum was not performed systematically given the unavailability of an appropriate system. All these
functions were performed by the Pakistan Wireless Board, part of PTC's management structure. The
project supported the establishment of FAB, which has achieved the following improvements in the radio
spectrum regulatory function:

Frequency allocation:

   l Previously, it used to take considerable time (over four months) for spectrum
         allocation/site-clearance. Now, by incorporating changes in procedures, the clearance time has
         been reduced to 6 weeks, and provisional clearance to mobile operators is given in 7 days. The
         private sector has expressed satisfaction with FAB's allocation procedures.

   l The National Frequency Allocation Plan has been prepared but has not been publicly released.


Radio spectrum management and monitoring:

   l Spectrum database for the National Control Center (NCC) is 90 percent complete and expected to
         be finalized by 2004.

   l Systematic monitoring of the proper utilization of assigned frequencies.



                                                      - 6 -

    l Interference analysis to allow for reassignment and re-utilization of frequencies.


    l The NFMMS has allowed the identification of illegal users in the three main cities, which are
         reported to PTA for further action.

Nevertheless, FAB still faces organizational, human resource and technical weaknesses. FAB recognizes
the need for additional expertise and training and has recently recruited 10 engineers for training with the
equipment supplier. In addition, FAB has prepared a comprehensive training plan, which is currently being
reviewed by MOITT.


4.2 Outputs by components:


Technical assistance component for PTA and FAB
Cost: $3.3 (appraisal) / $1.5 (actual)

The component is rated unsatisfactory. The technical assistance component was overly ambitious as the
project was the Bank's first lending operation that focused exclusively on regulatory reform in the
telecommunications sector. In addition, during the initial stages of project implementation, the GOP was
not committed to the use Bank funds for technical assistance to implement the reforms. Thus, PTA and
FAB faced difficulties in getting GOP's approval to utilize loan funds to contract consultant services. As
in other Bank projects, the Government approval procedure to utilize the loan funds to train staff abroad
was cumbersome and training approvals were not sanctioned timely. The approval of the Finance Ministry
and the MOST were required. In the case of FAB, and to a lesser extent PTA, the lack of staff to be
trained contributed to the low utilization project funds.

The project had the potential to significantly strengthen the institutional capacity of PTA and FAB, and
contribute to a clearer and stronger regulatory institutions. However, the low utilization of project funds to
finance technical assistance and training for PTA and FAB, when both entities required support, reduced
the impact on capacity building, which has been recognized by the agencies. Despite these implementation
difficulties, PTA and FAB's institutional development did improve their regulatory capacities. The
regulatory entities received regulatory training and technical assistance through the Canadian Government,
and conducted several in-house technical studies on numbering plan and interconnection, with support from
the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). The status of key activities under the project are as
follows:

    l The "technical cooperation arrangement" that was a part of the component was not implemented.
         A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed between the GOP and the Government of
         Canada in 1996. The areas then identified as regulatory priorities under the agreement were the
         following: a) interconnection, b) pricing, c) licensing, d) type approval, e) new technologies, and f)
         principles for frequency allocation and charges. PTA and FAB never activated the MOU with the
         Government of Canada. The Bank recommended PTA to look for other potential cooperation
         partners and talks were held with OFTEL, which were not concluded. Their inability to activate
         the Canadian MOU or to come to agreement with other possible partners was mainly due to the
         sanctions imposed on Pakistan (refer to Section 5.1.)

    l The planned 48 expert-months support for PTA and FAB in project implementation and the 24
         expert-months to FAB during the first year of its operation were not executed due to the sanctions



                                                      - 7 -

         imposed on Pakistan.

To develop PTA's organizational structure and technical expertise, the component used consultant services
supplemented by seminars provided by reputable regulatory agencies in developed countries (e.g. USA,
Canada, UK, Australia.) PTA utilized project funds to conduct the following studies:

    l Procedures and Rules of Business for the Regulation of the Licensing Regime
    l Interconnection
    l Type Approval


In addition, PTA decided to use its own resources to undertake in-house studies in areas such as
interconnection, CPP regime, universal service obligations, anti-competitive practices, quality of service
standard parameters, VoIP and others.

Staff-training component for PTA and FAB
Cost: $2.7 (appraisal) / $0.8 (actual)

The staff-training component is rated unsatisfactory. PTA and FAB's staff were not able to obtain the
appropriate training as originally envisioned. The overall training progress for both entities started at a
very slow pace due to delays in the hiring and induction of staff in PTA and appointment of core staff in
FAB. Starting in 1999, the training program gained momentum and PTA officials engaged in local and
international courses. The major training activities funded under the component were the following:

    l Spectrum Planning and Frequency Assignments (ACA, Australia)
    l Telecommunications Regulation (ACA, Australia)
    l Regulation and Privatization Issues (USTTI, USA)
    l Wireless Rural Telecom Systems Planning (including infrastructure development) (USTTI, USA)
    l Managing Network in Internet Wireless World (USTTI, Canada)
    l Managing Effectively in the Changing Telecom Environment (USTTI, USA)
    l Radio Communications (ITU, Turkey)


In addition, equipment suppliers provided training to 16 officers of FAB and about 200 staff of PTA
received training in various developed countries.

Procurement and installation of an integrated radio spectrum management and monitoring system
(NFMMS)
Cost: $35.3 (appraisal) / $27.5 (actual)

The component is rated satisfactory. The installation of the NFMMS has allowed FAB to improve its
frequency allocation function and manage and monitor the radio frequency spectrum (refer to section 4.1b).
There has been a reduction in the time required for spectrum allocation/site-clearances. The clearance time
has been reduced to six weeks, and provisional clearance to mobile operators is given in seven days
compared to four months. The allocation of bands is now being prepared to reflect international spectrum
allocation standards to conform to the new technological trends. FAB is able to monitor the proper
utilization of assigned frequencies as well as carry out interference analysis. FAB recognizes that with the
opening of the market and advancement of wireless technology, the NFMMS is an essential tool for
efficient spectrum management and monitoring.

The NFMMS was the major investment of the project at US$27.5 million (appraisal estimate of US$33.5);


                                                     - 8 -

cost reductions were possible due to the decreasing cost of the technology equipment and changes in the
scope of the design and technical specifications of the system. The component implementation experienced
significant delays and extensions of the project closing date were required. The NFMMS was originally
designed in 1994 as part of project preparation; its specifications were finalized in February 1995 and had
to be re-issued. The first tender for the supply of the NFMMS had to be cancelled as selected bidders
expressed reservations about supplying equipment in view of the economic sanctions (refer to 5.1). The
delays in the procurement of the system resulted in the need to introduce fundamental changes to the scope
and configuration of the NFMMS. Consequently, the specification had to be modified to reflect these
changes. Thus, the bidding process had to be restarted in 1999, and the component was finally
implemented in 2002.

Even though the NFMMS was installed appropriately and is largely operational, digitized 3D maps for the
spectrum management application remain pending. In addition, the software for License Regulation and
Tariff System (LRTS) provided by the suppliers has not been satisfactory, causing delay in starting
automatic licensing. Given the sophistication of the NFMMS equipment, the Bank recommended that FAB
should consider placing an appropriate Operation and Maintenance (O&M) arrangement after project
completion. FAB is negotiating with the equipment supplier representatives in Pakistan for a contract
based on satisfactory pricing.

The component also included $1.8 million for the installation of a Type Approval Laboratory. At the time
of the project design, it was a common practice for regulatory agencies to own a type approval laboratory.
However, the current regulatory practice is to outsource these testing activities, given the rapid introduction
of new equipment due to technological advancements. The Type Approval Laboratory was not installed
and the corresponding loan amount was cancelled on July 2, 2001, which is assessed as a positive
development.

Sector studies component
Cost: $0.4. (appraisal) / $2.2 (actual)

The component is rated satisfactory. Major studies were carried out to assist GOP analyze, plan and
implement sector reforms. Originally, the component consisted only of studies to support PTCL's
privatization, but in 2002, two new activities were added, the Deregulation Policy and its Strategic
Implementation and the ICT Strategy. These additions increased the component cost to $2.2 million.

The studies included in the component and their impacts on the sector are included below.

   l Telecommunication Demand and Rebalancing of Tariffs: PTA initiated PTCL's tariff rebalancing
        process, which is expected to prepare PTCL to face competition once the market is deregulated.

   l Deregulation Policy and Strategic Implementation: On July 13, 2003, GOP announced a
        pro-competitive sector deregulation policy for basic services. The market segment, which has been
        a monopoly of PTCL, will now be open to competition. In addition, the new policy defines the new
        universal service scheme, which will include the establishment of a Universal Service Fund,
        financed by contributions from the service operators.

   l ICT Strategy: MOST decided to cancel the activity arguing it was not necessary, partly because
        industry task teams/working groups were already making substantial progress in a similar task.

The Deregulation Policy and Strategic Implementation study was fundamental in the GOP decision to adopt


                                                      - 9 -

full liberalization. Phase 1 assisted the GOP in defining the deregulation policy and Phase 2 in supporting
the implementation of this policy. Phase 2 was not financed by the project loan due to delays in the GOP's
announcement of the policy, and the project closure on June 30, 2003. These delays were caused by
election in 2002 and the new Government's re-assessment of the deregulation options of open versus limited
entry. Given the importance of Phase 2, the GOP has decided to finance it with its own resources until
additional support through the Bank's proposed Public Sector Capacity Building Project is effective.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not calculated in Staff Appraisal Report.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not calculated in Staff Appraisal Report.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project is modest. The project supported the establishment of
PTA and FAB, which are now operational and discharging most of their responsibilities, comprising of the
regulation of the sector and allocation and efficient use of the radio spectrum, respectively. However, due
to the difficulties in implementing the technical assistance and training components, the institutions are still
not mature and require further streamlining of their operations through additional capacity building.

PTA started in 1996 with only 12 officers and 9 supporting staff; in 2003, it reached 75 officers and 126
supporting staff. Although PTA is currently fully staffed, it requires further technical capacity and
regulatory expertise, especially with the expected market entry of new private operators. PTA is expected
to participate in the proposed Public Sector Capacity Building Project, which should address some of its
institutional weaknesses.

Similarly, FAB requires additional support to strengthen its capacity in order to perform its functions in an
efficient manner. In addition, FAB inter-institutional linkages need to be reviewed now that PTA has been
transferred from MOITT to the Cabinet Secretariat. FAB, which remains under MOITT, still has
functional links with PTA, from whom it receives its budgetary allocation. FAB is currently training its
staff in spectrum management and monitoring, and effective use of the NFMMS. Ten new engineers were
sent for training in spectrum management to Germany. In addition, FAB has submitted to MOITT a
comprehensive human resource plan.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were several external factors that affected the implementation of the project. These include an
uncertain political and security environment, a poor local investment climate, and the global sector
recession. Firstly, Pakistan's reactivation of its nuclear program resulted in sanctions from developed
countries, which negatively affected the country's economic environment and impeded the implementation
of several project components. The first tender for the supply of the NFMMS had to be cancelled as
selected bidders expressed reservations about supplying equipment in view of the sanctions. The
re-tendering contributed to the delay in project implementation, which resulted in a two-year project
extension in 1999. In addition, as a result of the sanctions, the "technical cooperation arrangement" with a



                                                      - 10 -

reputable regulator could not be arranged due to reservations from the Government of Canada. Secondly,
the security risks during the regional conflict in 2001, created significant impediments in project
implementation due to travel restrictions. The staff from the NFMMS supplier could not visit the sites in
Pakistan at the scheduled time for the system commissioning, and the MOITT faced difficulties engaging
consultants for the telecommunications policy studies. As a result, the project received two one-year
extensions in 2001 and 2002.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The GOP was generally supportive to the project implementation and sanctioned procurement decisions
promptly. However, some implementation delays could have been avoided. Initially, the GOP took the
project out from the Public Sector Development Program (PSDP), delaying the project start up for one
year. As a result, the project was on "problem status" in the Bank's portfolio in 1997. Secondly, initial
staffing of PTA and FAB was delayed partly due to unattractive compensation packages. Thirdly, there
were frequent delays in the ministries' approval to PTA in utilizing the loan funds for training purposes.
Finally, the number of changes in the responsible sectorial ministries from MOC to MOST and later to
MOITT, also contributed to delays in project implementation.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

PTA and FAB were supportive of project implementation despite the difficult environment under which
they were established. Since the creation of PTA, its management has been fully committed to build its
regulatory capacity. Staff was recruited and consultants appointed for assistance in laying down rules and
procedures for the new organization. There were some avoidable delays in recruiting staff in
non-engineering disciplines, as its importance to the organization was not realized promptly.


5.4 Costs and financing:

The original cost of the project was $53.6 million, but due to cost reductions and cancellations, the actual
cost was reduced to $34.6 million, of which the Bank financed $17.8 million. The original loan amount
was $35 million and due to cost reductions in the NFMMS, it was reduced to $25 million by a cancellation
of $10 million during the mid-term review at the end of 1998. The loan amount was reduced again by $1.4
million in 2002, due to the cancellation of the type approval laboratory installation. As of October 2003,
the total disbursement stood at $17.8 million, and the remaining undisbursed balance of $4.1 million was
cancelled on November 21, 2003. In summary, approximately 50 percent of the original loan amount was
disbursed. Annex 2 shows the appraisal estimates and actual project costs.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the project's achievements is likely, as the GOP has continuously demonstrated
commitment to continue the sector reform process. The recent transfer of PTA from MOITT to the
Cabinet Secretariat will give more credibility to the regulator. The new deregulation policy based on
"unrestricted entry" has laid down the fundamentals of a competitive market. Although, actual licensing of
new operators could not be achieved before project closing, the GOP is committed to implement the


                                                     - 11 -

required regulatory actions and licensing. PTA has decided to fund the consultancy that will assist in the
policy implementation, while further Bank support is approved. The GOP is also proposing amendments to
the Telecommunications Act, to adapt it to the new deregulated environment.

In December 2002, the GOP created the Ministry of Information Technology and Telecommunications
(MOITT) to lead the sector policy formulation and implement reform given the importance of the IT and
telecommunications sectors to development of the Pakistan. The MOITT has provided leadership in the
reform program as demonstrated by the announcement of a progressive policy. In addition, MOITT is
spearheading a number of important initiatives to improve sector performance.

However, to ensure sustainability, the GOP should define the situation of FAB, which remains under
MOITT but has a direct functional relationship with PTA. The revision of the legislation should include a
redefinition of the sector institutional framework, to provide more clarity to the functional role of each
agency. In addition, the Cabinet Secretariat should conduct a periodical regulatory performance
assessment, to assure that PTA's performance is conducive for the development of the sector.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The announcement of the new pro-competitive policy by GOP is a major milestone. If successfully
implemented, the policy has the potential of transforming the Pakistan telecommunication sector into a fully
competitive market. The entry of new private operators in the provision of basic services will ensure much
required investment in the sector. In addition, implementation of the universal access fund will help address
the low rural access.

The MOITT recognizes the need for support to ensure the successful implementation of the new policy and
other reforms, and has requested Bank assistance. Given the momentum for sector reform, the Bank's
timely support would be important to facilitate sector development. Timely implementation of the new
policy has the potential of transforming the sector into a fully competitive market. The MOITT has
identified the following areas for Bank support:

   l Implementing a licensing regime: Assist in licensing of new operators; review the existing
         telecommunications legislation and regulations to ensure that the new policy can be implemented
         effectively and other related activities.

   l Strengthening regulatory framework for multi-operator environment: The role of the regulator will
         become more important in an open market regime and it will need greater resources and support to
         deal with the increased workload. Further strengthening the spectrum management and monitoring
         functions is also necessary.

   l Improving rural access: Support MOITT/PTA to design and implement a universal access strategy
         in a timely manner. The GOP has designed its market liberalization policy to maximize the
         commercial viability and coverage of telecommunications networks and services. However, the
         GOP recognizes that even with market liberalization, and under strict commercial conditions, there
         exist certain geographic areas that would remain un-served. The GOP's universal access policy is
         designed to ensure that these designated areas receive adequate service in a sustained manner.

   l PTCL's privatization support: Given the GOP's deregulation policy, it is important to move
         forward with the PTCL's privatization effort in a parallel track with the implementation of its



                                                     - 12 -

        deregulation policy. International experience indicates that existence of a state-owned operator
        hinders development of a multi-operator market structure.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in project identification and appraisal was unsatisfactory. Given that this project
was the Bank's first lending operation that focused exclusively on regulatory reform in the
telecommunications sector, the component design should have been less ambitious given the four-year
duration of the project. Establishing new institutions is a long-term endeavor and the project should have
focused in identifying and supporting key priority activities. Lack of comprehensive legal and economic
due diligence may have contributed to the poor project design. In addition, the Bank should have taken a
stronger stand to create only one regulatory institution, instead of the two-agency approach that was
adopted. The establishment of the PTA and FAB has required very close coordination between them. With
the move of PTA from the oversight of MOITT to the Cabinet Secretariat, the coordination function will be
more critical.

The Bank had required appointment of the Chairman and Board members of PTA as a condition of project
processing. Appointment of key staff of the two regulatory entities was critical to ensure smooth start-up
of the project. Delays in their appointment contributed to the project implementation difficulties.


7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision performance is considered satisfactory. Field missions comprising qualified staff
and consultants were completed at regular intervals and problems were addressed adequately and in a
timely manner. The implementing agencies received advice when needed, particularly for changes in scope
and design of NFMMS, by the addition of specific technical expertise in the supervision missions. The
Bank extended maximum assistance when GOP faced "force majeure" difficulties. Cancellation of first
tendering of NFMMS and re-tendering was cleared efficiently. Furthermore, the Bank supervision team
provided timely assistance to GOP, including extending the project due to the delay in execution caused by
"force majeure" in 2001. No significant deviations from the Bank's policies and procedures occurred
during project implementation. Bank's procurement procedures were followed without deviations.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. Given that the project was to be implemented by
newly created institutions, the Bank should have required appointment of key technical staff as condition of
project processing to avoid the start-up delays. The Bank staff worked very closely with the implementing
agencies to guide their institutional development. With the support of regional management, the Bank's
team processed project restructuring and the required extensions of closing dates efficiently. At the GOP's
request, the Bank approved a selective extension of the closing date by one additional year to support the
formulation of a deregulation policy for basic services to allow private sector entry and competition. This
extension facilitated the announcement of a progressive policy, which if successfully implemented will
ensure major improvement of sector performance.




                                                     - 13 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's contribution to project preparation since the identification stage was satisfactory. Based
on the market trends and evolving conditions worldwide, the GOP supported the project concept and
design, which was different from earlier telecommunication projects. PTCL extended full support to the
project preparation, even though the project supported PTCL's privatization and the removal of its basic
telecommunications services monopoly.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Project effectiveness was achieved in reasonable time and GOP's approval of major procurement decisions
was not delayed unduly. However, the GOP could have approved staffing and training of PTA and FAB
more promptly, avoiding the associated delays in the initial phase of implementation. Nevertheless, it
remained committed to taking necessary actions and respected PTA's autonomy largely, to support
adequate project implementation. The transfer of sector responsibilities from MOC to MOST, and later to
MOITT, gave increased focus and seriousness to the sector reform. Under the mandate of MOC, the only
major project activity carried out was the procurement of the NFMMS. After MOST and later MOITT
took charge of the sector policy, attention to the sector issues increased and MOST requested an additional
extension of the project for the design of a deregulation policy and its implementation, which at the end
resulted in one of the most significant successes of the project.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

Despite the continuous difficulties in engaging consultants due to travel restrictions and security situations,
PTA and FAB were deeply engaged in implementing the project. PTA was slow initially in the
procurement of consultants for building up its regulatory capacity and institutional development. However,
after the initial delay of about two years, when the main consultants were appointed, its implementation
performance became satisfactory. PTA has managed to resolve successfully many disputes between
various operators, including interconnection issues with PTCL. FAB was also initially slow in project
implementation, mainly due to frequent changes at the top management. It faced considerable difficulties in
recruiting suitably qualified staff from the market. The staffing problem was resolved by transfers from
existing government agencies on deputation in the earlier phase.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, Borrower performance and participation in project preparation and implementation was
satisfactory. Procurement approvals to the implementing agencies were provided with minimum delay.
The GOP has announced a highly positive and forward-looking deregulation policy, which should
consolidate the sector reform.


8. Lessons Learned

         Project Design and Implementation:

   l Flexibility of the Bank to grant a selective project extension, including a new component, even



                                                     - 14 -

        though the project had already been extended twice, allowed the GOP to develop and issue the new
        deregulation policy. This assignment was probably one of the most significant contributions of the
        project.

    l Continuous dialogue with the GOP during the project was crucial for the timely implementation of
        sector reform agenda.

    l The sector reform agenda is implemented better by a ministry responsible for a limited sector
        portfolio. In Pakistan, the GOP's decision to transfer responsibility of the telecommunications
        sector to the MOITT provided the impetus for GOP's announcement of a progressive sector policy.

    l Appointment of dedicated Project Manager is necessary to ensure smooth implementation of the
        project.

    l Appointment of key staff of the two regulatory entities should have been a condition of project
        processing to ensure smooth start-up of the project.

    l The establishment of new regulatory entities requires considerable time and resources; the project
        design should have been be less ambitious.

    l Given that this project was focused on regulatory reform in the telecommunications sector,
        adequate legal and economic due diligence are essential to ensure appropriate project design.

    l For procurement of complex systems like NFMMS, the procurement process should start only
        after spectrum policy has been announced and human resources plan is available. In addition, in
        the case of new organizations, an operational support after commissioning of the equipment should
        be required. In addition, the spectrum users database should already be finalized before the system
        is installed to avoid delays in the system utilization.

    l A training program for capacity building in new institutions should be designed and agreed to at
        the beginning of the project, as it is crucial for institution development.

    l For the assessment of the project's impact, it is essential to create performance indicators that are
        relevant, measurable and easily available, and establish a monitoring unit designed to collect and
        analyze the data required to monitor the development of the project.

        Telecommunications Sector Reform:

    l As per international experience, the introduction of a CPP regime and prepaid calling cards
        contributed to substantial growth in the mobile market.

    l Maintaining monopoly on leased lines and fixed market, blocks growth in liberalized market
        segments.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                      - 15 -

The Government provided the following comments regarding the project implementation and
achievement of objectives.

The World Bank provided a loan of US$35 million to the Government of Pakistan (GoP) for the
Telecommunication Regulation and Privatization Support Project and was reduced to US$25 million
through changes in the scope of the project. The World Bank missions had been visiting Pakistan during
the execution phase for witnessing the progress of the project. The loan period was extended thrice because
of delay in procurement and the force majeure condition in 2001. GoP approached the World Bank for 4th
extension of the loan in order to clear the remaining payment to the supplier of the NFMMS (National
Frequency Management and Monitoring System) equipment. However last request was not approved. It
may be mentioned that the World Bank had initially extended the portion of the loan allocated to training
and consultancy till June 30, 2002. Subsequently the same was further extended to June 30, 2003.
However the Bank did not allow the payment on account of goods and services beyond June 30, 2001.

There were three components of the said project. One related to FAB, the other related to PTA and the last
one a consultancy that was executed by MOITT.

(A) FAB

Milestones of NFMMS. After international competitive bidding the contract was awarded to M/s Rohde &
Schwarz, Germany on 4th June 1999. Under this contract, the equipment for National Control Centre
(NCC) has been installed, commissioned and made operational. To solve the initial teething problems,
German engineers paid a number of visits to Pakistan and have completed the left over work. The present
status of the NFMMS project is explained at Annex I:


(B) Pakistan Telecom Authority (PTA)

Within provisions of the project and funding provided by World Bank PTA is fully operational and
observations on that account are explained in the Annex II.

(C) Consultancy for Telecom de-Regulation Policy (MOITT)

Consultants for assisting GOP in preparation of telecommunications deregulation policy and licensing of
operators was also under taken under the same loan of World Bank. Phase-I of the consultancy has been
completed with announcement of a very positive deregulation policy, opening up the sector unrestrictedly.
Now the only entry criteria obtaining a license include basically a license fee, technical and financial
capability and commitment to network roll out thus allowing anyone meeting these requirements to obtain a
license. Bidding and the associated problems have thus been avoided, making the licensing process easy
and transparent. Exclusivity of fixed line telecommunications granted to PTCL has expired at the
beginning of the year 2003. Phase-II of the consultancy involving finalization of the licensing regime and
issuing licenses to new operators is currently underway.

The reforms envisaged under the project have been implemented and telecommunications sector has been
restructured and deregulated. Regulatory framework for telecommunication operators is in place and is
applicable equally to public and private sectors. Public sector's monopoly of fixed line services is no
longer there after the announcement of the deregulation policy allowing full competition. It is expected that
the successful implementation of policy would open new avenues of investment and growth in Pakistan and
would help in bringing new technologies and services of telecommunication for the consumers at affordable



                                                    - 16 -

prices.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                             - 17 -

10. Additional Information

                                         Table 10.1 - Key Sector Indicators

 Indicators                                    1995   1996   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002 CAGR (%)
                                                                                                  (%)
 Demand
 Main lines per 100 inhabitants                1.67   1.85   1.97  2.11  2.22  2.16  2.33  2.48   6.14
 Cellular Subscribers per 100 inhabitants      0.03   0.05   0.10  0.16  0.21  0.25  0.56  0.85   58.77
 Internet users per 1000 inhabitants           0.00   0.03   0.29  0.47  0.59  2.12  3.45  10.2  135.19
 Public Pay Phones (`000)                      11.1    13     14    28    29    40    65    83    33.73


 Tariffs (US$ current)
 Monthly subscription                          1.59   1.39   3.81  2.78  4.15  4.64  3.96  4.37
 Connection charge                             79.39  69.6  101.42 92.35 89.37 83.13 70.89 30.98
 Local call (3 min. current)                   0.05   0.05   0.03  0.03  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02

 PTCL
 Lines/Employee                                 40     44     48    50    52    53    56    62
 Lines in Service ('000)                       2,127  2,377 2,558  2,756 2,986 3,053 3,381 3,690
 Pending demand ('000)                          209   244    303   298   275   250   230   214
 Digitalization (%)                             73     78     80    93    94    94    94    96
 Exchange Line Capacity ('000)                 2,850  3,003 3,159  3,406 3,712 4,294 4,300 4,380


 Sources: ITU, WDI, PTA




                                                       - 18 -

                        Figure 10.1 - Current Sector Structure



   Policy                          Ministry of Information Technology and
                                         Telecommunications (MOITT)

Regulation                Frequency          Pakistan Telecommunications Authority
                       Allocation Board
                            (FAB)                                 (PTA)


                                   Service providers (operating)


     Local

                        Pakistan Telecommunications Company (PTC)
  National


International
                       Telecom Foundation
                                                         Telecom          Telecard      Others
                                                        Foundation
 Payphones                                                                               (76)
                                                                         World Call



                    ( Ufone )         InstaPhone        PakTel                Mobilink
  Cellular                             (Pakcom)


  Paging                                      Digital Communications


     Data                                                        Telecom Foundation    Others
                                                                   (Pak Datacom)        (13)

   Internet                         ( PakNet )                    Comsats     Cybernet Others
                                                                                         (71)



Notes:

Public        Private

Competition in all markets was expected to begin in January 1st, 2003

Source: PTA




                                              - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



 Indicator                                         Assessment
 I. Project Implementation
 Timely achievement of the implementation            Project implementation was delayed several
 plans for each project component                    times, which resulted in three closing date
                                                     extensions.
 Progress of TA and training measured in             Progress of the project components for TA and
 number of staff trained and their performance       training was not satisfactory.
 in regards to regulatory tasks (such as ability to
 handle interconnection, pricing, licensing,         Nevertheless, PTA officers received training in
 frequency monitoring functions)                     areas such as spectrum planning and
                                                     monitoring, regulatory practices, and
                                                     privatization issues. PTA received technical
                                                     assistance in interconnection and licensing.

                                                     FAB has prepared a comprehensive training
                                                     plan to be approved by the Ministry, which
                                                     includes:

                                                     l Spectrum Management Workshop in
                                                        Germany for two weeks
                                                     l Practical Workshop on Fixed Satellite
                                                        Monitoring Station/ Mobile Microwave
                                                        Monitoring Station for three weeks in
                                                        Pakistan
                                                     l Spectrum Management Workshop in
                                                        Pakistan.
                                                     l Practical Workshop on "Radio Monitoring"
                                                        in Pakistan.

                                                     The total number of staff trained under this
                                                     project is 185.
 Number and seriousness of observations in the       Ten audits observations were made by Post
 project audit reports                               Telegraph and Telephone audit Department in
                                                     project audit report. Out of these observations
                                                     nine have been settled after discussion and
                                                     taking necessary actions as required by audit
                                                     authorities. One observation, relates to revision
                                                     of PC-1. Revised PC-1 is likely to be approved
                                                     by central development working party CDWP
                                                     in their next meeting.
II. Efficiency of Regulation
 Area covered by radio frequency monitoring          HF band is being monitored all over Pakistan
 (upon project completion, the HF band will be       and VHF/UHF is being monitored only in
 monitored all over Pakistan and the VHF and         major cities.



                                                   - 20 -

 UHF frequencies where they are used
 intensively)
 Availability of frequencies for new services        There are still some bands that are not
 (the objective is to ensure spectrum availability   allocated appropriately and therefore some
 for all such services as may be widely offered      services cannot be offered (e.g. GSM 450
 in more advanced countries, e.g. USA, Sweden,       cellular service for rural areas and GSM 1900).
 and UK)                                             However, FAB is currently reassigning certain
                                                     frequency bands in accordance with ITU-R
                                                     Recommendations to entertain wireless
                                                     operators in the newly emerging technologies.
Competition in the provision of services (number l Except for basic telephony, competition exists
of service providers, service prices, number of         in the provision of services.
new services offered, etc. as compared with          l Tariffs decreased 20 percent in the cellular
advanced countries)                                     market due to the introduction of CPP and
                                                        recently with the entry of Ufone.
                                                     l New services have been introduced such as
                                                        Wireless Local Loop (WLL) (data and voice),
                                                        VoIP service, and broadband service with
                                                        private sector participation through O&M
                                                        contracts with PTCL.
Licensing regime (new licenses granted for         PTA expects to issue two new cellular licenses in
services, and ideally no license disputes)         2004. Several FWA bands have been licensed.
                                                   PTCL has obtained a license to offer WLL card
                                                   payphone services. PTA has settled several
                                                   licensing disputes (e.g. license fee with ISP, card
                                                   payphones, and spectrum charges and license fees
                                                   for cellular mobile companies)
Development of dispute settlement mechanism        During 2002, PTA adjudicated upon more than 60
(number of legal issues resolved)                  cases and passed determinations, including the
                                                   CPP regime, royalty, annual license fee and tariffs.
 Quality of service improvements:                  Call completion rates for 1999.
                                                   Local: 96.5% in 2002 (target: 96.5 %)
 - Call completion rates                           NWD: 94.4% in 2002 (target 94.6%)
 - Monthly faults/100 lines
 - Percentage of faults repaired the next working Monthly faults/100 lines: 84 in 2002 (target: 55)
 day
                                                   Percentage of faults cleared within 24 hrs:
                                                   88.14% in 2002 (target: 90%)
III. Contribution to Sector Objectives
 Timely completion of steps in GOP's policy        The Government has timely completed the legal
 letter                                            establishment of PTA/FAB and the approval of
                                                   the Telecommunications Act. However, the
                                                   scheduled privatization process of PTCL has not
                                                   yet been completed.
 PTC's privatization; percentage of equity sold      12% of the PTCL equity has been sold to
 to private investors including strategic            private investors in 1994.
 investor/s (at least 38% by 1998)
Progress on PTCL license and performance             l PTCL has been able to meet almost all of the



                                                   - 21 -

requirements indicators (elimination of waiting       licensed service targets.
list, tariff rebalancing, network expansion, etc)   l PTCL started the tariff rebalancing process in
                                                      1996-1997. During the 1996-2002 period, the
                                                      price of a local call has increased 32% and for
                                                      an international call has decreased 47%.
                                                    l By the end of June 2002, PTCL had installed
                                                      4.3 million lines, out of which 3.6 are in
                                                      service.
Satisfaction of demand for all basic              Not achieved
telecommunications services at cost recovery
prices by the year 2000
Access to service with expansion into all rural     As universal service obligations, PTCL was
and less profitable areas with populations over     required to install 12,000 lines in Tier-3 areas,
1,000 by the year 2000, number of PCOs etc.         whereas PTCL has provided more than 20,000
                                                    lines. Areas with population over 1,000 have
                                                    been provided with telephone service. The
                                                    number of PCOs has exceeded the figure of
                                                    110,000. The new universal service strategy
                                                    has been defined but is yet to be implemented.

Note: Assessment of key performance indicators was provided by the GOP




                                                  - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)




                                                Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage
           Project components                    Estimate   Estimate         of
                                               US$ million  US$ million  appraisal
 MOC
 Support to Sector Reform Program                       0.4          2.2        550
 Project Implementation Support                         0.3
 Training                                               0.0          0.2          -
                                     Subtotal           0.7          2.4        385

 PTA
 Type Acceptance Laboratory                             1.8          0.0          0
 Frequency Equipment Management                         4.6          0.0          0
 Computers, Office equipment and                        0.9                      11
 Vehicles                                                            0.2
 Land, Buildings, Air Cond. And Power                   1.9          0.8         42
 Supply
 Training                                               1.0          0.4         40
 Technical Assistance                                   0.8          0.5         63
                                     Subtotal         11.0           1.9         16

 FAB
 Frequency Management System                          28.9         27.5          95
 Computers, Office equipment and                        1.7                      22
 Vehicles                                                            0.3
 Land, Buildings, Air Cond. And Power
 Supply                                                 2.6          1.1         30

 Training                                               1.7          0.4         24
 Technical Assistance                                   2.5          1.0         40
                                     Subtotal         37.5         30.3          80

 Total Base Cost                                      49.3         34.6          70

 Physical Contingencies                                 2.5          0.0          -
 Price Contingencies                                    1.9          0.0          -

 Total Estimated Cost                                 53.6         34.6          65

 Note: Totals may not be exact due to rounding




                                               - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00               3.80             0.00              3.80
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                               28.00              0.00               2.10             0.00              30.10
                                      (28.00)            (0.00)             (1.70)           (0.00)            (29.70)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00               5.40             0.00              5.40
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (5.40)           (0.00)             (5.40)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                               28.00              0.00              11.30             0.00              39.30
                                      (28.00)            (0.00)             (7.10)           (0.00)            (35.10)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               1.90              0.00             0.00              1.90
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               28.00              0.00              0.00             0.00             28.00
                                      (16.44)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (16.44)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              4.70             0.00              4.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.32)            (0.00)           (1.32)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               28.00              1.90              4.70             0.00             34.60
                                      (16.44)            (0.00)            (1.32)            (0.00)           (17.76)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 24 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)




             Project components                  Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage
                                                 Estimate    Estimate     of appraisal
                                               Bank Govt.   Bank   Govt. Bank Govt.
 MOC
 Support to Sector Reform Program                0.2    0.2  0.3      1.9  150    950
 Project Implementation Support                  0.3    0.0                -       -
 Training                                        0.0    0.0  0.0      0.2  -       -
                                      Subtotal   0.5    0.2  0.3      2.1   60   1050

 PTA
 Type Acceptance Laboratory                      1.3    0.5  0.0      0.0    0       0
 Frequency Equipment Management                  3.3    1.3  0.0      0.0    0       0
 Computers, Office equipment and Vehicles        0.5    0.4  0.2      .02   40       5
 Land, Buildings, Air Cond. And Power            0.2    1.7                  0      47
 Supply                                                      0.0      0.8
 Training                                        0.7    0.3  0.2      0.2   29      67
 Technical Assistance                            0.6    0.2  0.4      0.1   67      50
                                      Subtotal   6.6    4.4  0.8      1.1   12      25

 FAB
 Frequency Management System                    20.6    8.3 16.0    11.5    78    139
 Computers, Office equipment and Vehicles        1.0    0.7  0.3      .03   30       4
 Land, Buildings, Air Cond. And Power            0.3    2.3                  0      48
 Supply                                                      0.0      1.1
 Training                                        1.2    0.5  0.3      0.1   25      20
 Technical Assistance                            1.8    0.7  0.0      1.0    0    143
                                      Subtotal  24.9   12.5 16.6    13.7    66    110

 Total Base Cost                                31.8   17.4 17.8    16.8    56      97

 Physical Contingencies                          1.6    0.9  0.0      0.0  -       -
 Price Contingencies                             1.2    0.6  0.0      0.0  -       -

 Total Estimated Cost                           34.6   19.0 17.8    16.8    51      89

 Note: Totals may not be exact due to rounding




                                               - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


During appraisal, economic cost and benefit analysis was not carried out for this project.




                                                 - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/07/1992                4    TASK MANAGER(1);                 S               S
                                             TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                             ENGINEER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (2)
              11/18/1993                3    TELECOM ENGINEER (1);            S               S
                                             PROJECT ADVISOR (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              05/26/1994                3    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST            S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2);

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/24/1995                5    SR. FINANCIAL                    S               S
                                             ANALYST (1); TELECOM
                                             ENGINEER (1) ;
                                             CONSULTANT (2);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER(1)

 Supervision
              01/29/1996                1    SR. FINANCIAL                    S               S
                                             ANALYST (1)
              06/18/1996                4    PROJECT OFFICER (1);             S               S
                                             TELECOM ENGINEER (1); SR.
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/29/1996                1    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)        U               S
              04/13/1997                4    CONSULTANT (2); SR.              U               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             OP. OFFICER (1)
              12/23/1997                4    CONSULTANT (2); SR.              U               S
                                             FINANCIAL CONSUL. (1); OP.
                                             OFFICER (1)
              11/09/1998                3    CONSULTANT (3)                   S               S
              04/12/1999                3    CONSULTANT (3)                   S               S
              11/20/1999                4    TELECOM POLICY SPEC. (1);        S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (2);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
              09/24/2000                1    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)            S               S
              04/29/2001                1    TELECOM POLICY SPEC. (1)         S               S
              05/13/2002                2    TELECOM POLICY SPEC. (1);        S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
              02/09/2003                3    SR. URBAN TRANS. SPEC. (1);      S               S
                                             TELECOM POLICY SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)



                                              - 27 -

 ICR
               11/10/2003                      4    TELECOM POLICY SPEC.               S             S
                                                    (1); JUNIOR
                                                    PROFESSIONAL
                                                    ASSOCIATE (1);
                                                    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                                    (1); CONSULTANT(1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       75                          241
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                    105                           621
  ICR                                              15                           78
  Total                                          195                           940


Trust funds used for project preparation amounted to US$657,485 (not included with staff cost above).
The SAP system does not provide a breakdown of expenses for appraisal/negotiation. The
Identification/Preparation figure includes the Appraisal/Negotiation expenses.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IBRD to Executive Directors
 2. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
 3. Project Aide Memoires
 4. Project Supervision Reports (PSR)
 5. All Back to Office Reports
 6. PTA's Annual Reports (1997-2002)
 7. Pakistan Telecommunications Act (1996)
 8. Telecommunications Status Report, PTA (1999-2002)
 9. Deregulation Policy for the Telecommunication Sector, MOITT 2003
10. IT & Telecommunications Report, Merrill Lynch (2002)
11. Telecommunications Policy in Pakistan, Robert Looney (1998)
12. Pakistan Telecom Sector: A Brief Description. Salman Ansai Technology Consultants (2000)
13. Fixed Telecommunications Market Opening: Policies and Strategies, Analysys and McCarthy Tetrault
    LLP (2002)
14. History of Pakistan Telecommunications, PTA (2001)




                                                 - 31 -

- 32 -

