Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3950 PAK
                             Loan Agreement
           (Telecommunications Regulation and Privatization
                            Support Project)
                                 between
                     ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                   and
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated December 12, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3950 PAK
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
        AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 1995, between the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
        WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated October
13, 1994 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to improve the quality and
efficiency of the telecommunications sector (hereinafter called
the Telecommunications Sector Reform Program), and declaring
the Borrower's commitment to carrying out such
Telecommunications Sector Reform Program; and
        (B)     the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
        WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
        Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
Page  2
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
        (a)     The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
        (b)     The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
                "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
                agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
                of expenditures in the territories of any country
                which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
                produced in, or services supplied from, such
                territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
                to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
                if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
                Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
                Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
                the Charter of the United Nations".
        (c)     In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
                "(k)     An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
                under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
                would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
                III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
        Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
        (a)     "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
        (b)     "MOC" means the Ministry of Communications of the
Borrower;
        (c)     "Ordinance" means the Telecommunications Ordinance,
1995, promulgated by the President of the Borrower for
purposes, inter alia, of regulating the telecommunications
industry and establishing an institutional framework in respect
thereof, and includes any subsequent legislation based on the
Ordinance;
        (d)     "Authority" means the Pakistan Telecommunications
Authority established by the Borrower pursuant to the
provisions of the Ordinance for purposes, inter alia, of
licensing telecommunications operators and performing overall
regulatory functions;
        (e)     "Board" means the Frequency Allocation Board
established by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of the
Ordinance;
        (f)     "Corporation" means the Pakistan Telecommunications
Corporation established under the Pakistan Telecommunications
Corporation Act, 1991 (XVIII of 1991) (the Act) as a wholly-
owned corporation of the Borrower and having a monopoly in the
provision of basic telephone services, as its functions and
operations have been modified pursuant to the repeal of certain
provisions of the Act by the Ordinance; and
        (g)     "Company" means the Pakistan Telecommunications
Company Limited incorporated under the Companies Ordinance,
1984 (XLVII of 1984) of the Borrower, established pursuant to
the provisions of the Ordinance.
                             ARTICLE II
Page  3
                              The Loan
        Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of thirty-five million dollars
($35,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
        Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other
charges on the Loan.
        (b)     The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in the National Bank of Pakistan a special
deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
        Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
        Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
        (b)     As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
        (c)     For the purposes of this Section:
                 (i)     "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                         ending on the date immediately preceding each
                         date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                         Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                         in which this Agreement is signed.
                (ii)     "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                         as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                         expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                         outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                         after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                         or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                         to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                         loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                         1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                         otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                         this Section.
Page  4
               (iii)     "Semester" means the first six months or the
                         second six months of a calendar year.
        (d)     On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)     The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
        amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
        time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
        Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
        preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
        1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
        this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
        the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
        Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
        such Interest Period."
                "(b)     As soon as practicable after the end of each
        Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
        Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
        Quarter."
                "(c)     (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
        commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
        a calendar year."
        Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
        Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
        Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate telecommunications, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
        (b)     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
        Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
        Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the
Borrower shall:
        (a)     prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
        (b)     afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                         Financial Covenants
        Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
        (b)     The Borrower shall:
                      (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                              paragraph (a) of this Section including
                              those for the Special Account for each
                              fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                              appropriate auditing principles consistently
                              applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                              to the Bank;
                     (ii)     furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                              but in any case not later than nine months
                              after the end of each such year, the report
                              of such audit by said auditors, of such
                              scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                              have reasonably requested; and
                    (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other information
                              concerning said records and accounts and the
                              audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                              time reasonably request.
     (c)     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
                      (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                              accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                              Section, records and accounts reflecting
                              such expenditures;
                     (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the
                              Bank has received the audit report for the
                              fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                              from the Loan Account was made, all records
                              (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                              receipts and other documents) evidencing
                              such expenditures;
                    (iii)     enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                              such records; and
                     (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are
                              included in the annual audit referred to in
                              paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                              report of such audit contains a separate
                              opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                              statements of expenditure submitted during
                              such fiscal year, together with the
                              procedures and internal controls involved in
                              their preparation, can be relied upon to
                              support the related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)     A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
Page  6
that the Telecommunications Sector Reform Program or a
significant part thereof will be carried out.
     (b)     The Ordinance has lapsed, or has been amended, waived
or repealed in such a manner so as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
                              ARTICLE VI
                      Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council of the Borrower (ECNEC) has approved
the Planning Commission-1 (PC-1) document with respect to the
Project.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                          ARTICLE VII
              Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in the Economic
Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
             The Secretary of the Government of Pakistan
             Economic Affairs Division
             Islamabad, Pakistan
             Cable address:                             Telex:
                     ECONOMIC                             ECDIV-05-634
                     Islamabad
     For the Bank:
             International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                             Telex:
                     INTBAFRAD                             197688 (TRT),
                     Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA),
                                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                                            82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
Page  7
                     ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                     By /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                                 Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated                 % of
                         (Expressed in               Expenditures
 Category              Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
(1) Equipment              25,600,000               100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory cost)
(2) Computers,              1,400,000               100% of foreign
    vehicles and                                    expenditures, 100%
    office                                          of local expendi-
    equipment                                       tures (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75% of
                                                    local expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally
(3) Consultants'            4,500,000               100%
    services and
    training
(4) Unallocated             3,500,000
                           __________
          TOTAL            35,000,000
                           ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)     the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)     the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from
the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
Page  8
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a)
training; and (b) contracts not exceeding the equivalent of (i)
$200,000 for goods; (ii) $100,000 for the services of
consulting firms; and (iii) $50,000 for the services of
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
the efficient development and privatization of its
telecommunications sector.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:      Radio Spectrum Management
     Acquisition and installation of an integrated radio spectrum
management and monitoring system providing both administrative
and technical facilities.
Part B:      Institutional Development
1.   Provision of technical assistance to the Authority and the
Board in establishing appropriate organizational structures and
strengthening technical capabilities to carry out their
respective regulatory functions, including acquisition of
related equipment.
2.   Training of the staff of the Authority and the Board.
Part C:      Privatization Support
     Carrying out of a study of the telecommunications sector
reform issues to assist in the establishment of suitable
strategies regarding tariffs, demand management, quality of
services and other related issues to support the liberalization
and privatization of the telecommunications sector.
                         *      *      *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                                 Payment of Principal
   Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 2001                                            675,000
December 15, 2001                                        700,000
June 15, 2002                                            725,000
December 15, 2002                                        750,000
June 15, 2003                                            775,000
December 15, 2003                                        800,000
June 15, 2004                                            830,000
December 15, 2004                                        860,000
June 15, 2005                                            890,000
December 15, 2005                                        920,000
June 15, 2006                                            955,000
Page  9
December 15, 2006                                        990,000
June 15, 2007                                          1,025,000
December 15, 2007                                      1,060,000
June 15, 2008                                          1,095,000
December 15, 2008                                      1,135,000
June 15, 2009                                          1,175,000
December 15, 2009                                      1,215,000
June 15, 2010                                          1,260,000
December 15, 2010                                      1,305,000
June 15, 2011                                          1,350,000
December 15, 2011                                      1,400,000
June 15, 2012                                          1,450,000
December 15, 2012                                      1,500,000
June 15, 2013                                          1,550,000
December 15, 2013                                      1,605,000
June 15, 2014                                          1,665,000
December 15, 2014                                      1,720,000
June 15, 2015                                          1,785,000
December 15, 2015                                      1,835,000
___________________
     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                      The interest rate (expressed as
                                      a percentage per annum) applicable
                                      to the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                      multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                             SCHEDULE 4
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:      General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Page  10
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower in respect of goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
     National Competitive Bidding
     Computers, vehicles and office equipment may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part E:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
Page  11
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                       Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)     establish and maintain an organizational structure for
the Authority and the Board in accordance with an action plan
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank; and
     (b)     ensure that the Authority and the Board carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and telecommunications practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.   The Borrower shall maintain the Authority and the Board with
adequate powers and functions and shall provide to them,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required by them for carrying out their
responsibilities in an efficient manner.
3.   No later than December 31, 1995, the Borrower shall:
     (a)     establish within MOC a project unit with composition,
powers, functions, facilities and resources, satisfactory to
the Bank, to assist in the implementation of the Project;
     (b)     appoint a project manager to said unit having
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (c)     establish within MOC, a Tender Board with composition,
powers, functions, facilities and resources, satisfactory to
the Bank, to assist the Authority and the Board in the
procurement aspects of their operations.
4.   The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1996 carry out and
complete the study under Part C of the Project in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
promptly thereafter, discuss the results of such study with the
Bank in order to identify suitable strategies for carrying out
further reforms in the telecommunications sector.
5.   The Borrower shall carry out monitoring and evaluation of
the progress of the Project as well as of the operations of the
Authority and the Board in accordance with methodology and
criteria, satisfactory to the Bank, and shall provide quarterly
reports to the Bank in respect thereof within a period of
thirty days of the end of each quarter beginning with the first
quarter of 1996.
                        SCHEDULE 6
                      Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)     the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
Page  12
     (b)     the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)     the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)     For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
   (b)       (i)         For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                         Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                         deposits into the Special Account at such
                         intervals as the Bank shall specify.
             (ii)        Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                         the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                         documents and other evidence required pursuant
                         to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                         or payments in respect of which replenishment
                         is requested. On the basis of each such
                         request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                         Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                         deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                         the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                         have been shown by said documents and other
                         evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                         Account for eligible expenditures. All such
                         deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                         the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                         Categories, and in the respective equivalent
                         amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                         documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
   (a)       if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
Page  13
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
   (b)       if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
   (c)       if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
   (d)       once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)     If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
   (b)       If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
   (c)       The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
   (d)       Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
