Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1846 LA
                   (Southern Transport Project)
                              between
                 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 18, 1987
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1846 LA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  December  18,  1987,  between  LAO PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the  Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed,  on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "RBMS" means the  Borrower's  provincial Road and Bridge
Maintenance Society; and
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to eleven
million   one    hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 11,100,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  a  special account in Banque pour le
Commerce Exterieur Lao on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after  the  date  of  this  Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.O7. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
Page  3
semi-annual installments payable on  each  April 15 and October 15
commencing October  15,  1997  and  ending  April  15,  2027. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on April 15,
2007 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial  and  engineering  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  Part  A of the
Project in  accordance  with  design  standards  acceptable to the
Association.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
Page  4
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
     Section 5.O1.  The  Borrower  shall,  at  least  once a year,
starting not  later  than  December  31,  1987,  carry out traffic
counts on Route 13 between the towns of Luang Prabang and Pakse to
establish traffic  growth  for  purposes  of  planning future road
development.
     Section 5.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  at all times, ensure  that  adequate funds are allocated
and made available, as  and  when  required,  for the proper main-
tenance of the rehabilitated  national  roads  in the Provinces of
Savannakhet, Saravane and Champassak; and
Page  5
     (b)  to that effect, annually review with the Association the
maintenance program and the funding thereof for the roads referred
to in paragraph (a) above.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.O1.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section l2.Ol (b) of the
General Conditions,  namely  that  the  Borrower  has selected the
consultants to assist in the  implementation of the Project (other
than Part D thereof).
     Section 6.O2. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.O3.  The   obligations   of   the  Borrower  under
Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty years after the date  of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Secretary  of  State  for  Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Secretary of State for Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          Vientiane
          Lao People's Democratic Republic
          Cable address:
                MINFINANCE
                Vientiane
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Page  6
                          By /s/ D. Somvorachit
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and               6,810,000       100% of foreign
     materials                                   expenditures or
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures in
                                                 foreign currency
(2)  Consultants'
     services
     (a)  other than              160,000 )      100% of foreign
          Part D of                       )      expenditures and
          the Project                     )      100% of local
                                          )      expenditures in
     (b)  Part D of               790,000 )      foreign currency
          the Project
(3)  Operating costs
     (a)                         1,630,000       100% of local
                                                 expenditures in
                                                 foreign currency
     (b)                            90,000       10% of local
                                                 expenditures in
                                                 local currency
(4)  Unallocated                 1,620,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL
                                11,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local  expenditures  in  local currency" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "local expenditures  in foreign currency" means
Page  7
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the
Borrower for goods or services  supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
     (d)  the term "operating costs"  means fuel, oil, lubricants,
equipment maintenance and  repairs,  and  salaries required by the
RBMSs.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to rehabilitate Route 13
and strengthen the maintenance  work  capacity  of Road and Bridge
Maintenance Societies in  the  Provinces  of Savannakhet, Saravane
and Champassak, as well as to  carry out studies in preparation of
future projects.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Spot regravelling, grading, and  drainage, culvert and bridge
improvements, on about 270 kilometers of Route 13 in the Provinces
of Savannakhet, Saravane and Champassak.
Part B:
     Acquisition and utilization  of  road construction materials,
road maintenance  equipment,  mechanical  workshop  equipment, and
related spare parts.
Part C:
     Strengthening  the  maintenance  work  capacity  of  Road and
Bridge Maintenance  Societies  in  the  Provinces  of Savannakhet,
Saravane and Champassak, including on-the-job training of staff in
maintenance techniques.
Part D:
     The carrying out of National Transport Improvement Studies.
  *               *               *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Lao People's
Democratic Republic  may  be  granted  a  margin  of preference in
Page  8
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and  paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items estimated to cost  less  than  the equivalent of $5,000
each, up to an aggregate  amount  not  to exceed the equivalent of
$400,000, may be procured under  contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Goods, such as timber, fuel,  oil  and lubricants, as well as
emergency spares, up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not to exceed the
equivalent  of  $2,300,000,   may   be   procured  through  direct
contracting with local  suppliers  under  procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $250,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in  the carrying out of the
Project and in the supervision  of  road works, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  9
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and
3 set forth in the  table  in  paragraph  1  of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
Page  10
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting  to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such  payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further  deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower  shall  establish,  and  thereafter  maintain, a
Project  Implementation  Office   in   the   town  of  Savannakhet
responsible   for:   (i)   the    management   of   the   Project;
(ii) operational procedures;  (iii)  procurement and allocation of
plant,  vehicles,  equipment,  and  construction  materials;  (iv)
repair and maintenance of  equipment;  and  (v) quality control of
works; such  Office  to  be  staffed  with  qualified personnel in
adequate numbers, including the following:
     (a)  a project manager; and
     (b)  an assistant project manager.
2.   (a)  The Borrower  shall  maintain  a  RBMS  in  each  of the
Provinces of Savannakhet, Saravane and Champassak responsible for
(i) carrying out  of  Project  works  and  quality control of such
works in the  relevant  Province,  and  (ii) regular servicing and
preventive maintenance of its plant and equipment; such RBMS to be
staffed with qualified  personnel  in  adequate numbers, including
the following:
     (1)  a senior civil engineer;
     (2)  an assistant engineer;
     (3)  a site engineer; and
     (4)  a mechanical superintendent.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  appoint  the  staff  referred to in
paragraph (a)(1) to (a)(4) of this Section:
     (1)  by June  30,  1988,  for  the  RBMS  in  the Province of
          Savannakhet;
     (2)  by October 30, 1988,  for  the  RBMS  in the Province of
Page  11
          Saravane; and
     (3)  by November 30, 1988  for  the  RBMS  in the Province of
          Champassak.
3.   In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than August  30,  1988, select the consultants
necessary for the purpose;
     (b)  not later than October  30,  1988, commence to carry out
the  studies  referred  to   therein   under  terms  of  reference
satisfactory to the Association; and
     (c)  not  later  than   June   30,   1990,   furnish  to  the
Association, for its comments, the recommendations and findings of
such studies.
