Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2470 IN (Amendment)
Andhra Pradesh Agreement
(Second Integrated Child Development Services Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Dated September 29, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 2470 IN (Amendment)
ANDHRA PRADESH AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH, acting by its Governor 
(Andhra Pradesh).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated March 23, 1993 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-one million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 141,600,000) (the Credit) to assist in financing the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(B)
by the Project Agreement dated March 23, 1993 (the Project Agreement) 
between the Association and the States of Bihar and Madly Pradesh (the Project 
States), the Project States have agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of 
the carrying out of the Project;
(C)
project cost savings have arisen under the Project due to, inter alia, 
foreign exchange rate changes;
(D)
the Borrower has requested the Association to agree to use these project 
cost savings under the Project to finance, inter alia, the costs of carrying out part 
of the ICDS (as defined in the Development Credit Agreement) activities currently 
included in the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project (Cr. No. 3103-IN/Ln. No. 
4360-IN) (APERP) financed by the Association and the International Bank for 
Page  2
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and carried out by Andhra Pradesh, and the 
Association, after due consideration, has agreed to this request, but only on 
condition that (i) the Borrower agree to undertake certain additional obligations 
toward the Association and (ii) Andhra Pradesh agree to undertake certain obligations 
toward the Association; and
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Association’s agreement to 
finance the costs of carrying out part of the ICDS activities currently included in 
APERP, has agreed to undertake those obligations toward the Association and, to this 
end, to enter into this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out, and cause its relevant departments to carry out, Part H of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Andhra Pradesh shall otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh 
shall carry out Part H of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part H of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part 
H of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitations thereto, Andhra Pradesh shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not 
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Association and Andhra Pradesh, a plan satisfactory to 
the Association for the future operation of Part H of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part H of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part H of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Andhra Pradesh 
of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of Part H of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
Andhra Pradesh responsible for carrying out Part H of the Project.
(b)
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 3.02. Andhra Pradesh shall, with the assistance of financial management 
consultants selected in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, prepare, not later than December 31, 2000, a computerized system for, 
inter alia, accounting, auditing and internal financial control practices (including 
recording of procurement practices) for the Project acceptable to the Association, and 
shall thereafter commence a financial management training program for all the entities 
participating in the implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and 
Andhra Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Andhra Pradesh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  4
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Andhra Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Hyderabad, India
Facsimile:
91-40-233700
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Andhra Pradesh shall designate in writing, and Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH 
By /s/ Shalini Misra
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Page  5
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Equipment, medicines, materials and supplies estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Part, civil works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Equipment, furniture, medicines, books, materials and supplies estimated to cost 
less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$3,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Books, equipment, software, medicines and materials estimated to cost up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $16,700,000 equivalent, may be carried out 
either:
(a)
under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully; or
(b)
through direct contracting with NGOs or local participatory groups, in 
accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association; or
Page  6
(c)
through force account, as a last resort in accordance with paragraph 3.8 
of the Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under 
the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for software development and training shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection 
Services for baseline surveys and pilot study on community supported nutrition 
program estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  7
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for training may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, subject to the requirement that any contract for goods, forming part of 
such research contract, and estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program 
1.
Andhra Pradesh shall carry out Part H of the Project in accordance with the Plan 
for Introduction of Services for ICDS as set out in the Andhra Pradesh Project 
Implementation Plan.
2.
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a)
maintain a Project Management Unit for Part H of the Project with 
functions, powers, organizational structure and resources satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(b)
by September 30, 2002, provide to the Association a plan satisfactory to 
Page  8
the Association for the future operation and sustainability of the functions and 
activities undertaken under Part H of the Project. 
3.
Andhra Pradesh shall provide training to all newly recruited field-level 
functionaries of ICDS within one year of their recruitment. 
4.
Andhra Pradesh shall carry out an assessment of stakeholders participation in 
ICDS activities at least once every year through participatory rapid appraisal 
techniques and implement the results thereof in a timely manner.
5.
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a)
by December 31 of each year during the implementation of Part H of the 
Project review with the Association the progress achieved in implementing Part H of 
the Project during that year;
(b)
by January 31 of each year provide to the Association an annual work 
plan, acceptable to the Association, setting forth the activities under Part H of the 
Project to be carried out during the following Fiscal Year;
(c)
implement each annual work plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(d)
implement Part H of the Project until the formulation of the first annual 
work plan in accordance with the interim plan agreed to with the Association. 
6.
Andhra Pradesh shall implement Part H of the Project in tribal areas (as 
designated by Andhra Pradesh) in accordance with the strategy for strengthening ICDS 
among tribal populations as set out in the Andhra Pradesh Project Implementation Plan. 
7.
Andhra Pradesh shall, in each Fiscal Year provide the full food requirements of 
ICDS in Andhra Pradesh in accordance with supplementary feeding norms of the Borrower 
established for ICDS.
8.
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a)
without limitation to Section 9.09 of the General Conditions, make 
available adequate land that may be required for new construction under Part H of the 
Project sufficiently in advance of commencing such construction activities in order to 
ensure timely implementation thereof;
(b)
to the extent practicable, and subject to subparagraph (c) of this 
paragraph, make such land available that is owned by it and is free from encumbrances 
and encroachments or obtain such land on a voluntary basis in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
ensure that no involuntary resettlement arises from any use of land, or 
change of land use for Part H of the Project, except to the extent that the 
Association agrees in writing prior to any such proposed land use that arrangements 
for involuntary resettlement, if any, are satisfactory to the Association. 
9.
Andhra Pradesh shall carry out and shall cause its relevant departments, 
services and units to carry out Part H of the Project in accordance with the Andhra 
Pradesh Project Implementation Plan. 
10.
Andhra Pradesh shall establish, maintain and implement a system, satisfactory to 
the Association, for channeling funds required for the Project to the entities 
responsible for implementation. 
11.
Andhra Pradesh shall maintain the Procurement Steering Committee established 
for, inter alia, Part H of the Project with functions, powers, staff and resources 
satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of reviewing and selecting bids 
submitted under international competitive bidding procedures and national competitive 
bidding procedures under Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
12.
Andhra Pradesh shall appoint by March 31, 2000 a financial controller with 
Page  9
skills, experience and qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.
13.
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Part H of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than June 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part H of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part H of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part H of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
