Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2470 IN (Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Second Integrated Child Development Services Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 29, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 2470 IN (Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 2000, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated March 23, 1993 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-one million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 141,600,000) (the Credit) to assist in financing the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(B)
by the Project Agreement dated March 23, 1993 (the Project Agreement) 
between the Association and the States of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh (the Project 
States), the Project States have agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of 
the carrying out of the Project;
(C)
project cost savings have arisen under the Project due to, inter alia, 
foreign exchange rate changes;
(D)
the Borrower has requested the Association to agree to use these project 
cost savings under the Project to finance, inter alia, the costs of carrying out part 
of the ICDS (as defined in the Development Credit Agreement) activities currently 
included in the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project (Cr. No. 3103-IN/Ln. No. 
4360-IN) (APERP) financed by the Association and the International Bank for 
Page  2
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and carried out by the State of Andhra 
Pradesh (Andhra Pradesh), and the Association, after due consideration, has agreed to 
this request, but only on condition that (i) the Borrower agree to undertake certain 
additional obligations toward the Association and (ii) Andhra Pradesh agree to 
undertake certain obligations toward the Association; and
WHEREAS the Borrower, in consideration of the Association’s agreement to finance 
the costs of carrying out part of the ICDS activities currently included in APERP, has 
agreed to undertake those additional obligations toward the Association and, to this 
end, to amend the Development Credit Agreement as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree to amend the Development Credit 
Agreement as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
(i)
The following definitions are added at the end of Section 1.02:
“(n)
“Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement” means the 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith, between the 
Borrower and the 
Association;
(o)
“Andhra Pradesh” means the Borrower’s state of Andhra Pradesh, or 
any successor 
thereto;
(p)
“Andhra Pradesh Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and 
Andhra Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Andhra Pradesh Agreement;
(q)
“Andhra Pradesh Project Implementation Plan” means the Project 
Implementation 
Plan of Andhra Pradesh and its relevant departments for 
implementing Part H of the Project 
approved by the Association;
(r)
“IEC” means information, education and communication; and
(s)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations established under the 
relevant 
laws of the Borrower and the relevant Project State or Andhra 
Pradesh.” 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
(i)
In Section 2.03, the words “September 30, 2000” is deleted and 
replaced with 
the words “September 30, 2002."
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
(i)
Section 3.01 (a) is deleted and replaced with the following:
“Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this 
end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, shall 
cause the Project States to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement and Andhra Pradesh to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Andhra 
Pradesh Agreement, 
all the respective obligations of the Project States and Andhra Pradesh 
therein set 
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Project States and Andhra Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.”
Page  3
(ii)
In Section 3.01(b), the words “and Andhra Pradesh” are added after 
the words “
Project State”.
(iii)
At the end of Section 3.04, the following is added: “and by Andhra 
Pradesh 
pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Andhra Pradesh 
Agreement.”
(iv)
At the end of Section 3.05, the following is added: “and the 
reviews referred 
to in paragraphs 5 and 13 of Schedule 2 to the Andhra 
Pradesh Agreement.” 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
(i)
In Section 5.01, new paragraphs (c) and (d) are added and read as 
follows: 
“(c)
Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the 
Andhra Pradesh Agreement.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Agreement 
Amending Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that Andhra Pradesh will perform 
its obligations under the Andhra  Pradesh Agreement.”
(ii)
In Section 5.02, the words “or (c)” are added after the words 
“paragraph (a).” 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
(i)
New Sections 6.05, 6.06, 6.07 and 6.08 are added and read as 
follows:
“Section 6.05. The Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement shall 
not become 
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been 
furnished to the 
Association that the execution and delivery of the Andhra Pradesh 
Agreement on behalf of 
Andhra Pradesh has been duly authorized or ratified 
by all necessary governmental action.
Section 6.06. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 
6.05, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association an opinion satisfactory to the 
Association of 
counsel acceptable to the Association showing that the 
Andhra Pradesh Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, Andhra Pradesh and 
is legally binding upon 
Andhra Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.07. (a)
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, 
the Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement shall enter 
into effect on the date on 
which the Association dispatches to the Borrower 
notice of its acceptance of the evidence 
required by Section 6.05.
(b)
If, before the effective date of the Agreement Amending 
Development Credit 
Agreement, any event shall have occurred which would entitle 
the Association to suspend the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, the Association may 
postpone the dispatch of the notice 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section until such 
event or events shall have 
ceased to exist.
Section 6.08. If the Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement 
shall not have 
entered into effect by ninety (90) days after its date, the 
Agreement Amending Development 
Credit Agreement and all obligations of the parties 
thereunder shall terminate, unless the 
Association, after consideration of the 
reasons for the delay, shall establish a later date 
for the purposes of this Section.  
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.” 
Page  4
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
(i)
The table in paragraph 1 is deleted and replaced with the 
following table:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   46,000,000
90%
(2)
Furniture,
   19,600,000
100% of foreign
equipment,
expenditures,
IEC materials,
100% of local
vehicles and
expenditures
medicines
(ex-factory cost),
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’
100%
services,
training,
publicity services,
services of NGOs
(a)
Part G
0
(b)
Other
   14,000,000
(4)
Incremental
   61,000,000
75% of local
operating
expenditures
costs
(5)
Unallocated
    1,000,000
TOTAL
  141,600,000
(ii)
A new paragraph 4 is added and reads as follows:
“4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of the Agreement 
Amending Development Credit Agreement on account of 
activities carried out by or in Andhra 
Pradesh except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR  25,000,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after August 1, 
1997.” 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
(i)
After the first paragraph, a new paragraph is added and reads as 
follows:
“The objectives of the Project as it relates to Andhra Pradesh are to 
assist Andhra 
Pradesh to improve the nutrition and health of young children, 
women, particularly pregnant 
and lactating mothers, and adolescent girls, by 
increasing the quality, impact, and 
cost-effectiveness of the Integrated 
Child Development Services program.”
Page  5
(ii)
A new Part H is added and reads as follows:
“Part H:
Integrated Child Development Services Component for Andhra 
Pradesh 
1.
Improving the quality and convergence of ICDS services through the 
establishment of about 2,700 mini-anganwadi centers and improving 
operations at about 39,000 
anganwadi centers, including provision of drugs at 
these and other anganwadi centers. 
2.
Strengthening women’s empowerment through training and awareness 
campaigns for 
adolescent girls, and provision of drugs and a learning course for 
adolescent girls between 
the ages of 11 and 16 years. 
3.
Expanding ICDS program in about 143 blocks through the provision 
of civil 
works, staff, equipment, materials and training. 
4.
Establishment of a state level management unit integrated with the 
existing 
ICDS program and implementing a program of institutional development. 
5.
Establishment of a training-cum-IEC resource center and provision 
of 
pre-service, in-service and state-specific orientation training for ICDS 
functionaries with 
enhanced financial norms. 
6.
Carrying out a program of IEC, including organization of 
communication 
workshops for all levels of functionaries and preparation of 
materials and media services.
7.
Strengthening the capacity to monitor and evaluate this part of 
the Project 
through, inter alia, improving the management information system for ICDS 
operations, 
carrying out operational research on the feasibility of community 
supported supplementary 
nutrition program, carrying out social assessments, and 
provision of training to ICDS 
functionaries in the area of participatory 
rapid appraisal.”
(iii)
In the last sentence, the words “March 31, 2000” is deleted and 
replaced with 
the words “March 31, 2002.”
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Rahul Bhatnagar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
