Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2470 IN
                         Project Agreement
      (Second Integrated Child Development Services Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                          STATE OF BIHAR
                                and
                      STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
                       Dated March 23, 1993
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2470 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and THE STATE OF BIHAR and
THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH (ACTING BY THEIR RESPECTIVE GOVERNORS)
(referred to collectively hereinafter as Project States).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred forty one million six hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 141,600,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that the Project States agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
      WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble thereto, and in the General Conditions (as so defined in
the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
their respective parts of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, health and nutrition practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Project States shall carry out their respective parts of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Each of the Project States shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit
Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
that part of the Project carried out by each of them respectively.
      Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Project States shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   Each of the Project States shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by each of the
Project States of its respective obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Project States shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices their operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
activities related to their respective parts of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Project States responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   Each Project State shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
Page  3
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
                  tion;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, certified copies of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
            (ii)  the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Project States of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
Page  4
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For Bihar:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Bihar
            Patna,
            India
      For Madhya Pradesh:
            Chief Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh
            Bhopal, India
                                          Fax:
                                            0705418
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of each Project State may be taken or executed
by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as the
respective Project State shall designate in writing and each of the
Project States shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  STATE OF BIHAR
                  STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Local Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in paragraph 1 of Part B of this Schedule,
contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 of Part B of this Schedule,
contracts for equipment, IEC materials, office supplies, medicines
and furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract or more, up to an aggregate amount of $30,400,000
Page  5
equivalent, shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $20,400,000 equivalent
may be carried out by force account.
2.    Equipment, IEC materials, office supplies, medicines,
furniture and vehicles estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$22,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost more
than $100,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines) shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit
Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Project States in carrying out the
Project, each of them shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Part A:     Project States
Page  6
Project Management and Staffing
1.    Each Project State shall establish a Project Management Cell
(PMC) with adequate staff, to coordinate Project planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation.  The PMC shall be headed
by a Project Coordinator and shall include (a) a core group
including at least a nutritionist, a communications specialist, a
sociologist/anthropologist with experience in tribal areas and a
training specialist; and (b) an adequately staffed ICDS Plus Unit.
2.    Each Project State shall establish and thereafter maintain an
Empowered Committee chaired by its Chief Secretary and comprising
its Secretaries responsible for ICDS, health and finance, as well as
the Project Coordinator, to coordinate administrative decision
making necessary for timely implementation of the Project.
3.    Each Project State shall, in accordance with a staffing plan
including a time schedule satisfactory to the Association, fill all
vacancies under its ICDS and health programs in Project blocks.
4.    Without prejudice to any other provision of this Agreement or
the Development Credit Agreement, each Project State shall: (a)
every year; (b) mid-way through implementation of the Project; and
(c) within six months after Project completion, evaluate Project
implementation and shall furnish said evaluation to the Association.
Project Planning and Review
5.    Each Project State shall prepare and thereafter implement a
Plan for the Introduction of Services (PIS) for each block covered
under the Project, with content satisfactory to the Association.
6.    Each Project State shall furnish to the Association by
December 31, 1993 a communication strategy for carrying out Part C
of the Project with format and content satisfactory to the
Association; and shall thereafter implement such strategy as agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
7.    (a)   Without prejudice to any other provision of this
Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, each Project State
shall review with the Association not later than December 31 of each
year the progress in Project implementation during that year.
      (b)   Each Project State shall, taking due account of the
results of the review referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above,
prepare and discuss with the Association by January 31 each year an
annual implementation plan covering activities to be undertaken
under the Project during the next fiscal year, and shall thereafter
carry out the said plan on a timely basis, as agreed with the
Association.
8.    Each Project State shall select the location of Anganwadis to
be constructed under the Project in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Association, including adequate prior
consultation with the concerned local community.
9.    Each State shall furnish to the Association proposals for
pilot schemes for carrying out Part D of the Project in accordance
with timing and criteria satisfactory to the Association.
10.   Each Project State shall carry out a program of operational
research in accordance with scope and timing agreed with the
Association, discuss with the Borrower and the Association the
findings and recommendations of such research, and take necessary
steps to incorporate the results of such research in the
implementation of the Project, as shall be agreed with the
Association.
Tribal Peoples
11.   Each Project State shall carry out the Project in accordance
Page  7
with the Strategies For Strengthening ICDS Among Tribal Populations.
Non-Governmental Organizations
12.   Each State shall select and engage non-governmental
organizations to assist that State in carrying out Part D of the
Project in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
Other
13.   Without prejudice to any other provision of this Agreement or
the Development Credit Agreement, each State shall take necessary
steps to make available to Anganwadis adequate supplemental food as
required for the carrying out of the Project.
Part B:     Madhya Pradesh
14.   Madhya Pradesh shall establish a regional directorate in its
Department of Women and Child Development, with adequate staff and
other facilities to be responsible for implementation of the Project
in tribal districts in eastern parts of Madhya Pradesh.
