Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 
25610-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(
IDA-24700
)
ON 
A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 
194 US$  MILLION
TO 
THE GOVERNMENT OF
INDIA
FOR 
 
THE SECOND INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT 
31/01/2003
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their 
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Page  2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 
03/03/2003
)
Currency Unit 
 =
Indian Rupee (Rs.)
  
1.00
 =
US$  
47.70
US$ 
1.00
 =
0.0209644
FISCAL YEAR
July 1, 2002 - June 30, 2003
     
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANM 
Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
AWC
Anganwadi Center
AWW
Anganwadi Worker
CARE
Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere
CAS
Country Assistance Strategy
DCA
Development Credit Agreement
DO
Development Objective
DWCD
Department of Women and Child Development
GOI
Government of India
IAP
Indian Association of Pediatrics
ICR
Implementation Completion Report
ICDS I
First Integrated Child Development Services Project
ICDS II
Second Integrated Child Development Services Project
IDA
International Development Association
IEC
Information, Education and Communication
MDGs
Millennium Development Goals
M/E
Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS
Management Information System
MPR
Monthly Progress Report 
MMR
Monthly Monitoring Report 
NFHS
National Family and Health Survey
NCHS
National Center for Health Statistics
NIN
National Institute of Nutrition
PSR
Project Status Report
QAG
Quality Assurance Group
SAR
Staff Appraisal Report
SOE
Statement of Expenses
TINP I
First Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
TINP II
Second Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
UNICEF
United nations Children's Fund
WCD
Woman and Child Development Project
WFP
World Food Programme
Vice President: 
Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:
Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:
Anabela Abreu/Charles C. Griffin
 
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
Michele Gragnolati
 
Page  3
INDIA
SECOND INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
1
2. Principal Performance Ratings
1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
13
6. Sustainability
14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
15
8. Lessons Learned
17
9. Partner Comments
20
10. Additional Information
23
Annex 1.  Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
24
Annex 2.  Project Costs and Financing
25
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
27
Annex 4.  Bank Inputs
28
Annex 5.  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
31
Annex 6.  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
32
Annex 7.  List of Supporting Documents
33
Annex 
8. Shortcomings in the Collection of Data on Nutritional Status
 
34
Annex 
9. Borrower's Project Evaluation Report
35
 
Page  4
Project ID:
 
P009977
 
Project Name:
 
ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)
Team Leader:
 
Michele Gragnolati
TL Unit:
 
SASHD
ICR Type:
 
Core ICR
Report Date: 
April 3, 2003
1.  Project Data
Name:
ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)
L/C/TF Number:
IDA-24700
Country
/
Department
:
INDIA
Region:
South Asia Regional 
Office
Sector/subsector
:
Health (80%); Pre-primary education (11%); 
Sub-national government administration (7%); 
Other social services (2%)
KEY DATES
Original
Revised/Actual
PCD:
12/15/1988
Effective:
09/21/1993
09/21/1993
Appraisal:
05/21/1992
MTR:
07/15/1998
09/15/1998
Approval:
03/09/1993
Closing:
09/30/2000
09/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency
:
GOI/States of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and  Chhattisgarh
Other Partners:
UNICEF/World Food Programme
STAFF
Current
At Appraisal
Vice President:
Mieko Nishimizu
Heinz Vergin
Country Manager
:
Michael F. Carter
Edward Lim
Sector Manager:
Charles C. Griffin
Richard Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:
Michele Gragnolati
James Greene
ICR Primary Author:
Michele Gragnolati; Katherine 
Anne Tulenko
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly 
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:
U
Sustainability:
L
Institutional Development Impact:
M
Bank Performance:
S
Borrower Performance:
S
QAG (if available)
ICR
Quality at Entry:
U
Project at Risk at Any Time:
Yes
Page  5
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1
Original Objective:
The Second Integrated Child Development Services Project (ICDS II) aimed to strengthen the 
capacity of the Integrated Child Development Services Program (ICDS) to deliver services in the states of 
Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, including among tribal people, over the long term by expanding ICDS in parts 
of the two states without services, and improving the quality of ICDS in areas with pre-existing services.  
The project’s Development Objectives (DOs) were to accelerate the pace of improvement in the nutrition 
and health status of pre-school children, particularly children under three years of age, and pregnant and 
nursing women, focusing on households with incomes below the poverty line.  
The project’s specific impact objectives were: 
§
to reduce the prevalence of severe malnutrition among children aged 6 to 36 months by 50 percent 
in Madhya Pradesh and by 40 percent in Bihar 
§
to reduce the prevalence of moderate malnutrition among children aged 6 to 36 months by 20 
percent in Madhya Pradesh and by 25 percent in Bihar 
§
to reduce the incidence of low birth weight by 30 percent in both Madhya Pradesh and Bihar.
The project was originally implemented in unified Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.  In November 2000, 
two new states were created – Jharkhand, formerly part of Bihar, and Chhattisgarh, formerly part of 
Madhya Pradesh.  The Government of India (GOI) apportioned the project to operate in the new states 
through government administrative orders. 
ICDS is centrally sponsored through the Department of Women and Child Development (DWCD) 
in the Ministry of Human Resource Development of GOI but is administered by the state governments.  
Anganwadi centers (AWC), i.e. village-based early child development centers, are the focal point for 
delivering ICDS services.  AWCs are often located in small rented rooms or in open courtyards and are 
staffed by a locally recruited woman, the Anganwadi worker (AWW), and a female helper.  GOI and the 
states share the costs.  GOI provides training and operating costs, including salaries, equipment, supplies, 
play materials, petrol and oil expenses, and medical kits.  The state governments meet the costs of 
supplementary food.  
ICDS is a multipurpose intervention that addresses early child development in a holistic, integrated 
way.  It has six components: (i) supplementary nutrition; (ii) immunization; (iii) health check-ups; (iv) 
referral services; (v) preschool non-formal education; and (vi) nutrition and health education.  The DOs of 
the Bank's project focused on one subset -- improvement of nutritional status of children and pregnant and 
nursing women -- of the several objectives of ICDS.
As of September 30, 2002 ICDS was operational in 4,761 development blocks in the country and 
is expected to cover the remaining 891 sanctioned blocks during the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2002-2007).
The original DOs were appropriate since, at the time the project was being prepared, Madhya 
Pradesh and Bihar were among the poorest states in India.  They had the largest tribal populations and 
extremely high moderate and severe child malnutrition -- 51.1 percent and 19.0 percent and 62.6 percent 
and 31.1 percent respectively in 1992-93, as measured by the first National Family Health Survey (NFHS 
I).  However, the project appears to have been over-ambitious in terms of its original size and scope, 
especially in defining the target indicators for poor states with weak implementation capacity like Madhya 
- 2 -
Page  6
Pradesh and Bihar.  The project was developed when India was preparing its first National Nutrition Policy 
and the World Bank was carrying out an expenditure review of the nutrition sector as input for a Public 
Expenditure Review of the social sectors in India. 
The DOs remain highly relevant to the Borrower’s current development priorities and the World 
Bank strategies, policies, and goals, including at least four of the eight Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs).  Reducing malnutrition, which continues to be a very serious problem in most states of India, 
remains central to India’s – and the Bank’s – poverty reduction agendas. Preventing and reducing 
malnutrition remains a main objective of India’s Tenth Five-Year Plan.  The project is also aligned with the 
three health objectives of the 2001 Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India: (i) to focus on 
health issues of priority to the poor, including child health, reproductive health, and communicable disease 
control;  (ii) to assist in developing India’s capacity to manage public health programs effectively; and (iii) 
to aid in developing more efficient, effective, and sustainable health systems at the state level, which will 
better serve the needs of the poor.
3.2
Revised Objective:
The original project's objectives remained unchanged throughout the project period.  However, the 
March 2001 amendment of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) introduced the additional objective 
of assisiting in financing emergency earthquake reconstruction activities in the State of Gujarat.
3.3
Original Components:
The project, financed with a US$194.0 million IDA credit and US$54.8 million national 
counterpart funds, consisted of four components: (1) service delivery, (2) communications, (3) community 
mobilization, and (4) project management.  Note that the names given to the subcomponents in the Project 
Description section of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) are often different from the names given to the 
subcomponents in the budget tables, resulting in some inconsistencies and making it difficult to determine 
the exact dollar amount budgeted for each subcomponent.  Total project costs comprised total base costs 
(US$209.0 million) and contingencies (US$39.8 million).
Overall, the design of the project appears to have prioritized quantity over quality.  About half of 
the total cost at appraisal referred to salaries of AWWs in newly created AWCs and little more than 5% to 
training, which had been identified as a necessary input to ensure service quality and effectiveness.
Component 1. Service Delivery 
(US$177.3 million or 84.8 percent of the total base costs).  
The service delivery component represented the main body of the project and aimed to improve the 
effectiveness of existing ICDS services and establishing new AWCs with an improved ICDS package. For 
budgeting purposes, this component was divided into three categories: nutrition (US$145.8 million or 69.8 
percent of total base costs), health (US$19.5 or 9.3 percent of total base costs), and training (US$12.0 
million or 5.7 percent of total base costs). However, for implementation purposes, the service delivery 
component was divided into nine subcomponents: 
§
Improved planning for the introduction of ICDS
: A systematic, locally flexible plan for the 
introduction of services was designed to be carried out in each block.  Requirements for the plan included 
filling all field positions from the district down to the AWC, carrying out a social mapping of each block to 
determine the number of new AWCs needed, training all new staff, a satisfactory community mobilization, 
and ensuring that adequate equipment and supplies were provided to the AWC.
- 3 -
Page  7
§
Expansion and strengthening of the AWC
: 11,000 new AWCs were to be built in underserved 
areas based on distance and population criteria.  Block-level ICDS offices and food storage facilities were 
also to be built in selected blocks.
§
Delivery of supplementary foods:
 The project did not fund supplementary food itself, which was 
financed by the states’ budget.  Instead, it was to improve the delivery of food by building storage facilities, 
simplifying the distribution system, and improving the monitoring of food distribution by independent 
consultants.
§
Support for pre-school education: 
The project was to purchase educational toys for the AWCs, 
promote the use of a more participatory and interactive approach to education by training AWWs, and 
enhance the capacity of parents and other care givers to provide a more stimulating environment at home 
via communication for behavior change.
§
Improving ICDS supervision:
 The project was to fund improvements in the training of supervisors, 
add a new category of supervisor at the block level, and give mopeds to field supervisors to reduce their 
traveling time.  Supervisors would be responsible for improving the reliability of data.  They were to train 
AWWs to improve their service skills and share AWW performance data with the community annually.  
§
Improved health-nutrition coordination:
 The AWW assists health workers in many tasks 
including the identification of malnourished children, immunizations, the registration of pregnant women, 
and the referral of ill children.  In order to improve this coordination, the AWW and her corresponding 
health team were to receive joint training from a harmonized training curriculum.
§
Pharmaceuticals
: The project was to fund the purchase of basic medicines for the AWC to be 
dispensed by the AWWs.  The medicines included iron tablets, oral contraceptive pills, de-worming agents, 
and antibiotic eye drops.
§
Strengthening operations research: 
Operations research was to be conducted in order to develop, 
test, and promote best practices for the management of ICDS.
§
Training:
 The project supported reviewing the curriculum and strengthening training institutions.  
The project also funded the initial training and refresher training of AWWs, AWW helpers, and 
supervisors.
Component 2. Communications
 (US$8.4 million or 4.0 percent of total base costs).  
The objective of the communications component was to complement the service delivery 
component by generating demand for services and by educating target groups on healthy nutrition 
practices.  Through competitive bidding, a professional consulting firm with experience in communications, 
mass media and social marketing was to be selected and contracted.  The firm was to conduct research, 
produce materials, and create communication strategies that were to be pre-tested before being 
implemented.  Emphasis was put on multiple forms of non-literate communication.  In tribal areas, research 
would also be done on the signs, symbols, festivals, rituals, and taboos that might affect nutrition practices.
Five target audiences were chosen: (1) mothers of children aged 0 to 36 months old, (2) mothers of 
children between 3 and 6 years old, (3) pregnant women, (4) adolescent girls, and (5) older women. The 
different kinds of communication materials were intended to make the women aware of available services 
- 4 -
Page  8
and to instruct them once they were within the program.
Component 3. Community Mobilization 
(US$7.2 million or 3.5 percent of total base costs).
  Experience from the First Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TNIP I) demonstrated that 
community mobilization and ownership of nutrition services can enhance both the initial success and the 
long-term sustainability of nutrition projects.  ICDS II planned to involve local NGOs to help to form 
women’s groups (
Mahila Mandals
) and other community groups as a conduit for nutrition education.  As a 
side benefit, these community groups could be used as platforms for microcredit, community crèches, 
agriculture extension work, and other cross-sectoral work.  The NGOs would also run innovative pilot 
schemes on community mobilization and distribute information on best practices for community 
mobilization. 
Component 4. Project Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
 (US$16.1 million or 7.7 percent of 
total base costs).  
This component had three subcomponents: 
§
Project organization:
 The project was to be set up with a project management cell (PMC) in each  
state that would employ a project coordinator, a nutritionist, a communications specialist, a 
sociologist/anthropologist with experience in tribal areas, a training specialist, an expert in community 
organization, and other technical experts as needed.  The staff would be distributed between a central office 
in each state and at least 10 district offices.  In an institutional strengthening sub-component, district 
managers would receive training in planning and management.  Lessons learned from the First Integrated 
Child Development Services Project (ICDS I) were used to update the reporting form, particularly to 
include questions to monitor and evaluate communication services and community mobilization.
§
Monitoring and Evaluation (M/E):
 A revised ICDS reporting system was in the process of being 
implemented in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh at the time the credit was approved.  This system included a 
computerized progress reporting system (set up with the assistance of USAID), which provided feedback to 
program managers on a variety of performance indicators.  Supervisors would be responsible for improving 
the reliability of data and for providing further training to those AWWs whose record keeping was 
deficient.  To increase accountability and community participation, local projects would be reviewed 
annually with local communities participating in those reviews.  Baseline, annual, mid-term, and endline 
surveys were to be completed to measure progress on meeting the project objectives and provide data for 
improving planning and performance. 
§
Tribal peoples:
 One month before the project went to the Board of the World Bank for approval, 
an amendment was passed by the Bank requiring that projects should examine the impact that they are 
likely to have on indigenous people.  In order to comply with this amendment, the project added three 
activities: a special emphasis on strengthening community participation in tribal areas, training programs 
developed especially for tribal people employed by the program, and the development of a database on 
tribal groups living in the project area.  In addition, in Madhya Pradesh, a special regional directorate was 
designed to address the problems of service delivery in sparsely populated tribal areas in the eastern part of 
the state.
3.4
Revised Components:
Due to implementation and disbursement delays and changes in exchange rates, ICDS II had a 
- 5 -
Page  9
surplus of funds that it would be unable to spend by its original closing date of September 2000.  To take 
advantage of this surplus and 
to be able to complete both the critical project subcomponents that had not 
yet been adequately implemented and the changes introduced at Mid-term Review, in September 2000 GOI 
requested a two-year extension of the closing date.  By reducing the total number of activities, it was 
argued argued, DWCD could focus entirely on the most critical activities, which were identified as being:
§
Prioritizing children younger than three years of age;
§
Implementing the adolescent girls’ component, including state-specific health training modules for 
adolescent girls and the provision of iron supplementation and de-worming drugs;
§
Further improving the health/nutrition convergence, including strengthening the Reproductive and 
Child Health/ICDS joint plan in Madhya Pradesh and increasing immunization coverage in Bihar;
§
Focusing on communication for behavior change, especially with respect to infant feeding 
practices;
§
Improving workers’ refresher training by taking a decentralized training approach, especially using 
mobile training teams;
§
Preparing and implementing community mobilization training modules, especially for women’s 
groups.
Those project components that had not been implemented and that were considered not crucial to 
achievement of the DOs were dropped, including one additional supervisor in each district, 
income-generating activities for women’s groups, and referral funds.  Referral funds, in particular, were 
dropped to strengthen the preventive strategic focus of the program.
Some of the surplus funds were reallocated to finance (a) ICDS activities in Andhra Pradesh ($60 
million) through financing the nutrition components of the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring 
Project, and (b) part of the Gujarat Earthquake Reconstruction Program ($35 million).  
The activities financed by ICDS II in Andhra Pradesh included mostly civil works.  The activities 
financed under the earthquake reconstruction program included civil 
works (74.9%), furniture, equipment, 
vehicles and medicines (10.0%), consultants' services, training, publicity services and services of NGOs 
(10.0%), and incremental operating costs (5.1%).  The corresponding amendment to the Development 
Credit Agreement (DCA), which became effective on March 30 2001, introduced an additional component 
to the project, called Part Z.  Funds allocated in Part Z were used entirely to finance civil works, which 
were implemented satisfactorily and consistenly with the objectives of this additional component.
3.5
Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry Assessments were not carried out in the Bank at the time of project’s initiation 
(FY93).  As discussed in Section 3.1, the project had considerable strategic relevance due to its 
development rationale, its consistency with the CAS and sector strategies, its foundation on experience 
from previous nutrition projects, and Borrower’s ownership.  The project paid attention to poverty and 
social issues, including indigenous and gender issues.   The current policies for safeguarding the 
environment, however, would have required additional preparation, especially with respect to medical waste 
management.
The SAR identified three risks to the success of the project:  (1) training and institutional 
shortfalls, (2) overloading AWWs with additional responsibilities distracting them from their primary goal 
of case management and behavior change, and (3) a lack of nutrition-health coordination. The SAR then 
identified the strategies to be followed to minimize these risks.  
- 6 -
Page  10
The project was the fourth in a series of IDA-supported nutrition projects in India, following TINP 
I, the Second Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TINP II), and ICDS I, all of which aimed to 
improve the nutrition and health status of young children and pregnant and lactating women through an 
integrated package of community-based activities, with a village-based nutrition worker as the focal point.  
The World Bank had a comparative advantage in financing ICDS II because of its experience with 
previous nutrition projects in India and elsewhere in the world, including in Indonesia, Guinea Bissau, and 
Colombia.  The project design was indeed based on a thorough analysis of the lessons learned from TINP I 
and TINP II and the constraints that ICDS I, which was being implemented at the time of preparation, was 
facing.  The IDA funds, which were additional to the resources supplied by the central and state 
governments, were supposed to be used strategically, to strengthen the focus and effectiveness of ICDS by 
addressing the shortcomings of the program in reducing malnutrition among young children and 
pregnant/nursing women.  
It appears that institutional capacity was not adequately assessed during the design and appraisal 
stage.  Limited implementation capacity resulted in slow disbursement and implementation progress during 
the first three years after the project became effective. 
The SAR of ICDS II indicates that the focus of Bank's support for ICDS would be to strengthen 
activities aimed at improving the nutritional status of younger children and pregnant and lactating women 
through (i) developing a strong communications component to promote health and nutrition education and 
greater community involvement; (ii) enhanced training and supervision of workers; (iii) refining job 
descriptions so that they focus on a selected of number of well focused tasks that the workers can 
effectively carry out; and (iv) sharpening the targeting of food supplementation.   With hindsight, however, 
it appears that the focus of ICDS in the participating states remained on universal child feeding and 
pre-school education for older children.
Given these considerations, the target indicators, which are presented in Section 4.1, appear to 
have been too ambitious and Quality at Entry is rated as 
Unsatisfactory
.
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1  
Outcome/achievement of objective:
Conclusions about the impact of the project can be made only through inference from relatively 
weak data, due to shortcomings in the collection of data on nutritional status (see Annex 8 for details).  The 
best available data consists of a series of two NHFS surveys in Madhya Pradesh and Bihar in 1992/93 and 
1998/99, and an endline survey conducted in these two states in 2001.  The prevalence of malnutrition is 
calculated for children younger than 4 years for 1992-93, and the corresponding rate for children younger 
than 3 years is estimated for 1998-99 and 2001.  As stated in Annex 8, the endline survey was conducted in 
Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and the new state of Chhattisgarh.  A delay in implementing this survey in 
Jharkhand resulted in the data not being available at the time this ICR was written.  The available 
information suggests modest reduction in severe and moderate malnutrition in Bihar but not in any other 
state.  
Table A and Table B show the targeted and observed change in prevalence of severe and moderate 
child malnutrition in Madhya Pradesh and Bihar.  The latter is measured by the percentage of children with 
a weight-for-age index more than three and two standard deviations below the NCHS reference median 
- 7 -
Page  11
respectively.
  
Incidence of low birthweight has not been reported in Tables A and B because the proportion 
of the sampled children for whom this measurement is available is very low and the sub-groups for which it 
is available are unlikely to be representative of the larger populations.  In Bihar, the actual reduction in 
severe malnutrition among young children was 18.0%, compared with a target of 40.0%, and the reduction 
in moderate malnutrition in the same age groups was 13.1%, compared with a target of 25.0%.  In Madhya 
Pradesh, the data show an increase in both kinds of malnutrition, by 29.3% for severe malnutrition and 
3.1% for moderate malnutrition.
  
Note that the observed changes cannot be directly attributed to the project 
because of a lack of clear intervention and control populations.
Table A. Targeted Percentage Change in Prevalence of Child Malnutrition (Weight-for-Age)
+
Severe malnutrition among children 
6-36 months
Moderate malnutrition among 
children 6-36 months
Madhya Pradesh
-50.0%
-20.0%
Bihar
-40.0%
-25.0%
+
 The SAR also identified a 30% percentage reduction in the incidence of low birth weight as a target for both 
Madhya Pradesh and Bihar.  However, data on incidence of low birth weight are either not available or based on 
too few observations to be representative of the larger population.
Table B. Actual Prevalence and Percentage Change of Child Malnutrition (Weight-for-Age)
1
Severe malnutrition
Moderate malnutrition
Madhya Pradesh
*
NFHS I (1992-93)
19.0%
2
51.1%
2
NFHS II (1998-99)
24.3%
3
55.1%
3
End-line Survey (2001)
24.6%
3
52.7%
3
Actual Percentage Change 
+29.4%
+3.1%
Was target achieved?
No
No
Bihar
#
NFHS I (1992-93)
31.1%
2
62.6%
2
NFHS II (1998-99)
25.5%
3
54.4%
3
End-line Survey (2001)
NA
4
NA
4
Actual Percentage Change 
-18.0%
-13.1%
Was target achieved?
Partially
Partially
NA Not Available.
*
 Includes Chhattisgarh except for ICDS Endline survey; 
#
 Includes Jharkhand except for ICDS Endline survey.
1
 Nutritional status in the SAR was calculated using the growth charts of the Indian Association of Pediatrics (IAP) 
so it is not comparable with the other figures, which are based on the growth charts of the National Center for 
Health Statistics (NCHS). Using IAP standards, prevalence of severe (grades III and IV) and moderate (grade II) 
malnutrition in Madhya Pradesh and Bihar were 8.0% and 24%, and 11.4% and 32.7% respectively; 
2
 Children 
0-48 months; 
3
 Children 0-36 months; 
4
 At the time of writing the ICR, the ICDS Endline survey for Bihar was 
available but prevalence of severe and moderate malnutrition could not be calculated because of shortcomings of 
the data on children's age. 
Furthermore, the analysis of the endline survey for Madhya Pradesh indicates that there is no 
evidence that ICDS is having any effect on child malnutrition, as measured by the weight-for-age 
anthropometric index.  Specifically, ICDS attendance is found to have no effect on malnutrition rates in 
both a bivariate analysis and after controlling for age of the child, mother's education, socioeconomic status 
and illness in the previous two weeks.  Data from the endline surveys in Chhattisgarh also indicate that the 
prevalence of severe and moderate malnutrition among children less than three years who attend AWCs 
- 8 -
Page  12
regularly (i.e. at least once every two weeks) is not significantly different from the prevalence of severe and 
moderate malnutrition among children who do not attend AWCs.
In addition to what may have been over-ambitious targets, the main reason why the project did not 
succeed in achieving the nutrition targets appears to be its failure to change the settings, incentives, and 
rules of the game of ICDS, which continues to be viewed by political leaders, government employees, and 
beneficiaries as a program that provides pre-school education and child feeding.
  
This accounts in large 
measure for the preoccupation of GOI and the states with expanding ICDS in under-served areas and their 
related limited interest in research and evaluation, as evidenced by the shortcomings in the collection of 
nutritional data (see Annex 8).  No major effort has been made to market the program as one that aims to 
prevent malnutrition in children by changing mother's behavior through information dissemination and 
education.  As a result, and as shown in multiple evaluations, ICDS has had only limited success in its 
objective of reducing malnutrition.  Social indicators tend to be better in ICDS blocks than in non-ICDS 
blocks.  However, despite much effort over many years and important progress, GOI and the Bank have not 
yet fully succeeded in implementing through ICDS the kind of program that can address malnutrition 
among young children effectively.  
For the reasons outlined above the project is rated as 
unsatisfactory 
in terms of achieving its 
development objectives.  The Borrower's arguments for disagreeing with the rating are reported in Section 9 
(a).
4.2  
Outputs by components:
Component 1. Service Delivery:
 
Unsatisfactory
. The majority of the components of ICDS II did not meet 
their general output goals.  The project predates the use of the logical framework as a project design, 
management and evaluation tool so there are no output or outcome targets for each component.
§
Improved planning for the introduction of ICDS
: Although decentralized planning was not directly 
monitored, it has clearly improved, with state-level DWCDs playing a growing role in project planning and 
expressing greater confidence in their planning ability.  One barrier to success was that the project did not 
make use of Project Implementation Plans, which provide detailed, step by step implementation 
instructions.  Also, the SAR did not include detailed implementation arrangements.  The plans for 
introduction of services had not been completed by the time the loan became effective, which delayed 
project implementation.  Timely planning continues to be hampered by the need for training in planning 
skills, frequent staff vacancies, frequent rotation of staff, and a lack of appropriate, high-quality data for 
planning.
§
Expansion and strengthening of the AWCs
: According to GOI's data, more than 22,000 AWCs 
were built during the project period (instead of the 11,000 originally envisaged in the SAR).  An 
independent evaluation of civil works rated construction quality as satisfactory.  However, all four 
buildings constructed with Bank funds in Bihar that were toured by the ICR team did not meet the expected 
standards.  
A supervision survey carried out in 1999 revealed that only 74 percent and 46 percent of AWCs 
had both weighing scales and growth charts in Madhya Pradesh and in Bihar respectively.  Due to the 
extremely rapid expansion of ICDS coverage, the quality of services was poor.  The intended emphasis in 
the project on improving service quality, was not adequately realized.  GOI and the states continued to 
emphasize expansion of services to more areas, to the detriment of a focus on quality.  
- 9 -
Page  13
§
Delivery of supplementary foods
: Progress was made in decentralizing the purchase and 
distribution of the food.  Supervision survey data from Madhya Pradesh indicated that the majority of 
AWCs (83 percent) had food available, whereas the corresponding figure for Bihar was only 51 percent.  
Severely malnourished children were not specifically targeted and supplementary feeding remained 
universal for all children attending the AWC.  Emphasis was placed on feeding in the AWC, which 
automatically eliminated most of 0 to 3 year olds.  Despite the fact that ICDS food is to be supplementary, 
children who would otherwise have been fed at home are frequently sent hungry to the AWC. The 
overemphasis on center-based feeding meant that AWWs had little time or incentive to give nutrition 
counseling to pregnant women, lactating women, and mothers of children.  
§
Support for pre-school education:
 Most of the AWWs’ time is spent on AWC-based pre-school 
education.  Appropriate educational toys were available in those AWCs that were easy to get to, whereas 
more isolated AWCs did not have adequate toys.  In Madya Pradesh, 85 percent of AWCs had pre-school 
kits, whereas only 50 percent of  AWCs in Bihar had them.  The number of mothers trained to provide 
more stimulating play and the results of the training were not measured, and, therefore, this aspect could 
not be assessed.  Although it was not formally assessed, the educational and day-care aspect of the AWCs 
appears to be greatly valued by families, and many families ask AWWs to keep the AWCs open until they 
return from work.
§
Improving ICDS supervision:
 Supervision remained a low priority throughout the project’s 
implementation.  Only half of the required number of supervisors were hired, meaning that some 
supervisors had more than 50 widely spaced rural AWCs to supervise.  The plan in the SAR to purchase 
mopeds for supervisors was not implemented, and travel allowances for supervisors were frequently late.  
Consequently, supervision did not occur regularly and when it did occur it appeared to be mainly a 
regulatory rather than a teaching activity useful for improving the quality of the services provided.  
Supervisors did not have any device such as a checklist to guide and facilitate the task of supervision, and 
as a result, supervision activities were rarely documented.  The supervisors’ notes that the ICR team saw 
did not list the problems that they encountered nor did they propose solutions.  The supervisors were not 
held accountable, and the community feedback envisioned in the SAR did not materialize. 
§
Improved health-nutrition coordination:
 Although some progress has been made in joint planning 
and training between ICDS and the health system, this has remained highly centralized and has rarely 
translated into concrete actions at the AWC level.  Referral mechanisms for children with faltering growth 
or other illnesses remain very weak, with a lack of funds available to pay for transport and medicine and no 
follow-up.  An additional constraint on the success of health-nutrition coordination has been the shortage of 
Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs).  If the ANM posts remain unfilled for any length of time, then the 
quality of immunization and prenatal, postnatal or referral care services to be supported by ICDS is put at 
risk. There has been a slow shift toward preventive referrals away from crisis referrals, but this has not yet 
become systemic. The registration, monitoring, and counseling of pregnant women remains weak.  
Substantial gaps remain in the ability of AWWs to exploit every opportunity to interact with mothers to 
deliver health and nutrition counseling.
§
Pharmaceuticals:
 The medicine kits were appropriately designed and, despite distribution 
problems, were greatly appreciated by the AWWs and the communities. Seventy-nine percent of AWCs in 
Madhya Pradesh had drug kits, but only 46 percent in Bihar had them.  Since an ANM tends to visit each 
community only once a month, the ability of the AWWs to treat basic illnesses is crucial for improving 
beneficiaries’ health and nutritional status.  The desire for curative services brings people to the AWC and 
makes them available for preventive counseling in nutrition and health.
- 10 -
Page  14
§
Strengthening operations research:
 No operations research was carried out. 
§
Training
: A 1999 supervision survey indicates that 91 percent and 79 percent of the AWWs in 
Bihar had received pre-service and in-service training respectively.  The corresponding figures were 94 
percent and 84 percent in Madhya Pradesh.  The 2001 endline survey for Bihar, however, reveals that only 
47 percent of AWWs had received both types of training.  Training backlogs remained an issue throughout 
the life of the project and were due mostly to the long initial delay in overall project implementation, to 
problems with the original design of the training component, to approval delays at the state and central 
levels and to a lack of adequate training infrastructure.  Of particular concern was that many AWWs did 
not receive the second half of their initial training due to scheduling difficulties.  Overall, the training 
centers that were used were of good quality.  However, they were often far away from AWCs, and it was 
often difficult for an AWW with family responsibilities to leave her home for a week to receive training.
Component 2. Communications:
 
Mixed
.  The key outputs of this component were the development of 
appropriate IEC materials and the dissemination of good nutrition practices and the services available at 
AWCs to the target audience. In both participating states, the design of communications strategies was 
hampered by problems with the companies that were contracted to do the work.  After a few years of delay, 
provisional communication strategies were devised and material produced to reach the five target groups.  
The IEC material consisted of radio and print ads, posters, charts, flipbooks, calendars, and pocket diaries 
with nutrition messages. In addition, AWCs were provided with material to help AWWs to teach children 
safe health practices and to counsel mothers about good nutrition practices.  Unfortunately, no survey was 
conducted to measure the campaign’s impact on behavior change, nor were data gathered on the audience 
reached. In some cases, local media were used, but most of their potential remained untapped.  Due to the 
low literacy levels among poor women, the IEC posters should have relied more on images than on text to 
convey their messages.  
The successes of the IEC campaign, although limited, included a few pockets of 
excellence that can serve as best practices and should be expanded.  These include training members of 
women’s groups to become agents for change and the IEC component of UNICEF’s 
Dular 
strategy for 
women’s health, which encourages behavioral change in women's diets during pregancy, health-seeking 
behaviors, and newborn care practices.
Component 3. Community Mobilization:
 
Satisfactory
.  The key outputs of this component were the 
formation of women’s and adolescent girls’ groups and the management by communities of their own 
AWCs.  Community mobilization was initially slow but accelerated after it was emphasized in the 
restructuring of the project.  Almost all functioning AWCs had women’s groups and adolescent girls' 
groups; the majority of local communities actively participated in the management of their AWCs; and 
there is now a general consensus that community mobilization does strengthen ICDS.  The involvement of 
NGOs envisioned in the SAR was not realized, and as a result, the AWWs did most of the community 
mobilization work themselves.  
Component 4. Project Management:
 
Mixed
.  The key outputs of this component were the establishment 
of project management cells, the training of high-level staff in project management, the monitoring and 
evaluation of the execution of the project, and the establishment of special training programs for tribal 
people employed by ICDS.
§
Project Management:
 
Mixed
.  All PMCs were established, but systemic problems such as high 
staff turnover, a lack of incentives to innovate, and a failure to hire staff in key technical positions 
hampered the effectiveness of their work.
§
Monitoring and Evaluation (M/E):
 
Unsatisfactory
.  Monitoring activities consisted of record 
- 11 -
Page  15
keeping and supervision by AWWs.  Record keeping by AWWs was very burdensome, consisting of at 
least 13 separate registers. The majority of AWWs interviewed by the ICR team felt that the registers 
required too much of their time.  Bank supervision missions have noted the Monthly Progress Reports 
(MPRs) kept by the AWWs and the Monthly Monitoring Reports (MMRs) produced by the district offices 
should be revised if they are to provide the information needed for decision-making.  In addition to the 
MPRs, 18 other forms are received by the district-level office, many of which containing the same 
information. 
The evaluation component consisted of carrying out baseline, midterm, and endline surveys.  The 
problems with these surveys is discussed in Annex 8 (Shortcomings in the Collection of Data on Nutritional 
Status).  One successful aspect of the M/E was the contracting out of the endline surveys to private 
companies located in each of the four states.  State-level ICDS offices were able to build good relationships 
with these companies and closely follow the progress of the surveys.  The official analysis of the endline 
survey is not yet complete, but the data seem to be of good quality. 
§
Tribal peoples:
  
Satisfactory
.  The project did an effective job of placing new AWCs in areas with 
large tribal populations and of recruiting tribal, scheduled caste, and minority children into the new and 
already existing AWCs.  GOI has made it mandatory that new AWCs will be opened only in areas with 
high percentages of tribal peoples, scheduled castes, and minorities. One innovation of ICDS II is the “
poriawadi
,” a mini-AWC placed in villages with populations of as little as 300 people.  The 
poriawadis
 
have increased the access that tribal people have to ICDS and have been so successful that they are being 
used as a model in other states.  The proposed database on tribal groups was developed in Bihar and 
Jharkhand and was used to plan the location of the new AWCs.  To overcome the low education levels of 
tribal AWWs and to address issues specific to tribal areas, a special training module was developed for 
tribal AWWs.  Although a few studies have been completed in Madhya Pradesh, there remains a 
considerable need to investigate any habits of tribal people that may affect their nutritional and health 
status.
Additional state-specific achievements of ICDS II can be found in Section 7 of Annex 9 
(Borrower's Project Evaluation Report).
4.3  
Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4  
Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5  
Institutional development impact:
Substantial
ICDS II contributed to establish the ICDS program in all participating states.  The greatest 
progress in institutional development was made via the decentralization of the project.  By increasing 
knowledge and the authority to make decisions at the middle and lower levels of the ICDS management 
system, the project became more responsive to local needs and conditions.  Also, by giving more 
responsibility to communities, the project strengthened community institutions such as women’s groups and 
panchayats
 and diminished the effects of rapid staff turnover.  DWCD also strengthened its ability to train 
- 12 -
Page  16
staff at all levels.  Training centers were established at the district level, and innovative training 
approaches, such as mobile training teams, were used.  The states were encouraged to hire local 
organizations to conduct endline surveys with the aim of improving local capacity.  This arrangement was 
successful; in the endline surveys that were organized by local organizations, data were collected earlier 
and were of higher quality than in those surveys for which out-of-state organizations were used.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Bihar and Madhya Pradesh were chosen to participate in ICDS II due to their high rates of poverty 
and child malnutrition.  The two states had many challenges to overcome; they did not have effective 
management systems in place, it was difficult to get qualified people to accept jobs in remote rural areas, 
and it was difficult to hire workers from within the community with adequate education skills.  In addition, 
the geographical and linguistic isolation of the tribes within each state was a further barrier to success.  The 
existence of these barriers was recognized from the beginning of the project’s preparation, but it was 
decided that the vast need of these states outweighed the formidable constraints on the program’s success.  
Moreover, during the nine years of the project’s implementation, India experienced an economic recession 
and Madhya Pradesh suffered a prolonged drought.  The increase in poverty that followed may have eroded 
some of the potential accomplishments of the project.
The 1998 partition of the states of 
Bihar and Madhya Pradesh
 had the unwanted effect that the 
new states of Jharkhand and Chhatisgarh initially experienced difficulties in setting up new administrative 
systems.  Because of these difficulties, Jharkhand and Chhatisgarh delayed providing the information 
necessary for financial management certification, which meant that the transfer of IDA funds to the new 
states never occurred.  However, GOI provided the two states with other funds so ICDS services could 
continue uninterrupted.
5.2
Factors generally subject to government control:
After the project was approved by the World Bank’s Board and became effective, its 
implementation was delayed for almost a year pending approval by the Cabinet of India’s central 
government.  More importantly, ICDS has not yet become an effective nutrition intervention for young 
children that is compatible with GOI's priority of addressing child development as a whole and not only 
his/her nutritional status.
5.3
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors under the control of the implementing agency affected the project substantially.  The 
Bank's Project Status Reports (PSRs) from the first years of the project show that there were delays in 
establishing and staffing Project Management Units and in setting up Management Information Systems 
(MISs).  An additional problem was the high staff turnover and vacancies in DWCD.  This phenomenon 
had several causes: (i) the policy of rotating staff every few years; (ii) the use of deputed staff who did not 
have a commitment to the project; and (iii) considerable delays in hiring staff despite India’s rich pool of 
qualified health and nutrition workers.  
There were not enough supervisors, which did not help to improve the quality of services.  Even 
though many supervision documents and the Mid-term Review kept emphasizing the importance of 
reaching children under the age of 3, the majority of the project’s resources and efforts remained focused on 
children aged 3 to 6 years old.
- 13 -
Page  17
The delay experienced by the World Bank in processing the amendment of the DCA resulted in 
delays in reimbursing GOI of incurred expenses.  Audit reports were often submitted by the participating 
states with long delays and incomplete information.  The continued flow of funds to the states despite 
denials of statement of expenses (SOEs) prevented discontinuation of services but also did not create the 
right incentives for the states to improve their financial management capacity.  The majority of SOE denials 
were not resolved until the last year of the project.  A computerized Financial Management System has 
been developed for the Woman and Child Development Project (WCD), into which ICDS II is merging.  
Financial management training has also been provided as part of WCD.
5.4
Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project was US$248.8 million, of which the IDA credit constituted US$194 
million.  The Borrower’s contribution was US$54.8 or 22 percent of the total.  Data on the allocation of 
total project costs to each component and the exact amount spent by each state on each component are not 
yet available.
The first Table in Annex 2 presents information on original allocation across expenditure 
categories in the DCA and the actual use of Credit funds.  At appraisal, the majority of funds (48.0%) were 
expected to be spent on incremental operating costs, i.e. mostly salaries of AWWs.  About 13% of funds 
were expected to be spent on both hardware (civil works) and software (consultants' services, training, 
publicity services and services of NGOs) components.  However, at the end of the project, the majority of 
funds (55.6%) were used to finance civil works.  This increase is in part due to IDA financing of civil 
works in for both Gujarat earthquake reconstruction and ICDS in Andhra Pradesh.  The corresponding 
figure is reduced to 36.5% when civil works in Gujarat are excluded.  Overall, 432.9% percent more than 
what was originally planned was spent on civil works.  The corresponding figure 
is reduced to
 284.0% 
when civil works in Gujarat are excluded.  
Opposite to civil works, there was underspending in all the other expenditure categories: (i) 
incremental operating costs (63.8% of  what was expected at appraisal), (ii) furniture, equipment, IEC 
material, vehicles and medicines (57.4% of what was expected at appraisal) and (iii) consultants' services, 
training, publicity services and services of NGOs (21.1% of what was expected at appraisal).  
Underspending in these components may be due in part to the depreciation of the Indian Rupee and 
overestimates at appraisal.
  Moreover, training for the states participating in ICDS II was also financed by 
the national training component in WCD (UDISHA).  However, the data on training, IEC materials, M/E, 
and medicine kits presented in Section 4.2 also indicate that many of these activities have not been carried 
out to the extent that would have contributed to a better quality of ICDS services and ultimately to a 
greater impact of the project.  In the case of Andhra Pradesh, the limited focus on software components 
was attenuated by the agreement of the State to provide training to all newly recruited field-level 
functionaries of ICDS within one year of their recruitment. 
The initial level of project financing appears to have been too high for low-capacity states such as 
Bihar and Madhya Pradesh to absorb.  The budget for Bank supervision was probably inadequate given the 
complexity of the project, the low capacity of the states, and the fact that the states of Bihar and Madhya 
Pradesh are larger and more populous than most independent countries.
6.  Sustainability
6.1
Rationale for sustainability rating:
- 14 -
Page  18
The sustainability of the project is 
likely
 but with some qualifications.  It is likely to be sustainable 
because the Borrower has considerable ownership of the ICDS program, which remains the most important 
early child development intervention in the country.  However, both the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
nutrition component need to be improved if ICDS is to be the vehicle for reducing child and maternal 
malnutrition in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, and Jharkhand as well as in the other states in India.  
Institutional sustainability
.  GOI has made AWCs the first point of contact for the delivery of 
public health services and primary care for women and children.  ICDS has broad support from all major 
political parties at the national and state level and should not be affected by any changes that may occur as 
part of the political cycle. Communities perceive ICDS as providing them with essential services to which 
they are entitled, a view that has been reinforced by the Supreme Court of India’s ruling that ICDS should 
cover all villages in the country.  During the nine years of its implementation, ICDS II has helped to 
improve the execution capacity of most institutions involved in the design and implementation of the 
program at the national, state, district, and community levels.  Such improvements are likely to endure.  
The experience of managing the endline surveys at the state level is likely to have increased state-level 
monitoring and evaluation capacity.
Financial sustainability
. GOI has demonstrated a strong financial commitment to ICDS II.  When 
loan disbursements were unable to continue in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh after the division of Bihar and 
Madhya Pradesh, GOI kept financing ICDS in the two new states with non-IDA funds so that the delivery 
of services could continue uninterrupted.  Given the nature of the services provided and the socioeconomic 
characteristics of its beneficiaries, ICDS will continue to have no cost-recovery mechanisms in place.  For 
the next couple of years, the financial sustainability of ICDS is ensured by WCD, which was approved in 
1998 to finance ICDS activities in the states of Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar 
Pradesh and has been restructured to include the financing of ICDS activities in the ICDS II states.  
As part of its general rules, GOI will absorb the cost of financing the salary of those AWWs who 
were hired under ICDS II.  Given the expected increase in the honoraria of the AWWS, these resources will 
have to be used more efficiently so that activities that will ensure the quality and effectiveness of services 
(such as training, equipment, and monitoring and evaluation) can continue to be financed.  The costs of 
ICDS supplementary feeding component are borne by the respective state governments, and all four states 
are committed to sustaining this part of the program.  However, they should bear in mind that, as 
supplementary feeding coverage increases from its current levels, the program’s food costs will raise 
correspondingly.
6.2
Transition arrangement to regular operations:
ICDS is a permanent program.  Because the  continued financing of ICDS in the four states is 
assured through further IDA and national funds, no arrangements were needed to convert ICDS II to 
regular operations. 
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1
Lending:
Unsatisfactory
.  
- 15 -
Page  19
Project preparation was based both on the lessons learned in previous Bank-supported nutrition 
projects in India and on the numerous evaluations of ICDS program that had been conducted over the 
years.  However, as discussed earlier, the project’s preparation phase led to a mismatch between the 
objectives and activities in the Bank’s project appraisal document and the project’s implementation focus, 
which resulted in a bias towards hardware over software and quantity over quality, which ultimately limited 
the project’s development impact.  
Training, which was one of the most important factors behind the success of TINP I, did not 
receive the same attention in ICDS II.  An efficient and effective training system able to guarantee workers’ 
and supervisors’ skills and motivation was never put in place.
Given that the project pre-dated the use of Project Implementation Plans (PIPs), there were no 
documents to guide the project’s execution other than the SAR, which failed to provide sufficient 
implementation details.  Moreover, the project was negotiated and became effective before adequate 
execution capacity was developed in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, which resulted in an initial period of three 
years during which very little disbursement and implementation took place.  The SAR indicates that during 
the negotiations Madhya Pradesh and Bihar provided assurance that a list of many activities would be 
completed, including staffing plans and operational research programs.  However, many of these activities 
were never carried out, which prevented the  execution of important components and hindered the project as 
a whole. 
7.2
Supervision:
Satisfactory
.  
Supervision was initially weak and received a marginal rating in a 1998 review of the World 
Bank’s Quality Assurance Group (QAG).  It took a while to acknowledge that the project had become a 
problem project, which meant that its restructuring was delayed.  However, supervision improved greatly 
after the restructuring, and decentralizing responsibility for supervision to the World Bank office in New 
Delhi helped to promote a very close, responsive relationship between the Bank and GOI and the states on 
one side and an excellent collaboration between the bank and UNICEF on the other side.  A second QAG 
review in 2001 rated supervision as satisfactory.  Supervision missions were conducted every six months 
by a multidisciplinary team and were found to be helpful by ICDS field staff.  
The Mid-term Review was a turning point.  The restructuring that followed redirected the emphasis 
of the project towards development outcomes by strengthening its focus on software components, such as 
training and communication for behavior change.  The allocation of undisbursed part of the IDA Credit 
towards the ICDS/Nutrition component of the Andrha Pradesh Economic Restructuring Loan and the 
Gujarat Earthquake Loan allowed the full credit to be used. 
The Aide-memoires are rich reports and provide both good diagnoses of the implementation 
process and suggestions for how to improve the quality of ICDS service and, ultimately, their impact.  
Project Status Reports (PSRs) have useful ‘issues and actions’ sections.  However, their ratings seem to 
have been sometimes too optimistic given the ambitious scope of the project, the high poverty rates in the 
participating states and implementation problems that the project encountered.  Management inputs were 
adequate, as were procurement and financial management support. 
7.3
Overall Bank performance:
- 16 -
Page  20
Satisfactory
. 
The Bank team has succeeded in building a collaborative relationship with the Borrower and other 
implementation and development agencies in India.  The bifurcated phase of the project (November 2000 to 
September 30, 2002) covered 146 blocks in 34 districts in Bihar, 126 blocks in 13 districts in Jharkhand, 
250 blocks in 45 districts in Madhya Pradesh, and 127 blocks in 16 districts in Chhattisgarh.  ICDS II has 
helped to establish the ICDS program on a solid foundation in the participating states.  Through WCD, the 
Bank is continuing to support GOI in trying to improve the nutritional, health and psychosocial status of 
pre-school-aged children and women in India by increasing the quality, impact, and cost-effectiveness of 
ICDS in several states.
Borrower
7.4
Preparation:
Unsatisfactory
. 
As discussed in Section 7.1, there was lack of concordance between GOI’s view of the project as 
mainly an education and feeding project and the Bank’s view of the project as a case management and 
behavior change project.
  
The Bank and GOI share responsibility for the mismatch and its resulting 
problems.  If the project were supposed to focus mainly on education and feeding, it would have been 
designed and supervised differently.
  
Although the SAR indicates that at the time of the appraisal mission the preparation was well 
advanced with community mapping completed in Madhya Pradesh and baseline nutrition and 
communications studies completed in Bihar, neither state had developed the required Plan for the 
Introduction of Services.  Planning for the more innovative aspects of the project, such as community 
mobilization, was still in process at the completion of the SAR, and the SAR contained too many 
assurances that vital steps would be taken between the time of the board approval and the date when the 
loan would become effective. 
7.5
Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory
.  
This was a highly decentralized project. The states rather than the central government implemented 
the project.  Great strides were made in decentralization, but there were still long delays while standard 
components of the project awaited approval from the central government.  Throughout the life of the 
project, GOI improved its ability to share information and facilitate innovation through regular meetings of 
all state ICDS project managers.    Regular top-level central support and coordination between the states 
and the Ministries of Health and Education are needed 
to maintain and build on these advances. 
7.6
Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory
. 
- 17 -
Page  21
The decentralization of the procurement of supplementary food and the empowering of 
panchayats 
to supervise AWWs were both successful.  Some advances were made in general procurement skills and in 
the understanding of the importance of monitoring and evaluation.  Increasing field supervision by senior 
management (for example,  spot field visits by an education coordinator to a training site or by the state 
project director to an isolated AWC) would increase managers’ credibility, increase their knowledge of 
constraints in the field, and eventually contribute to increasing accountability and improving the project’s 
performance.  To further increase accountability, field supervisors could provide the state offices with a 
schedule of their supervisory visits.
7.7
Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
.
8. 
Lessons Learned
Despite the Bank’s efforts to focus the project on its original development objectives of reducing 
maternal and child malnutrition, ICDS II has remained a program that prioritizes the distribution of food 
and preschool education.  Qualitative improvements are noticeable with respect to ICDS I, but structural 
changes will be needed if ICDS is to be used as the main vehicle for preventing and reducing malnutrition 
among young children of poor families.
Structural Problems
Most of the issues that prevented ICDS II from becoming an effective intervention to reduce child 
malnutrition are similar to those identified in the ICR for ICDS I, which underscores the difficulty involved 
in addressing the structural problems of financing a large national program like ICDS.
§
Strengthen focus on the young children of the poorest families
.  Most of the children attending 
AWCs are older than 3 years old, despite the fact that it has been demonstrated that the window of 
opportunity for treating both severe and moderate child malnutrition is when the child is under 3 years old.  
This reinforces the need to strengthen the role of the mothers as the agents of change and the need to target 
ICDS services to children from the poorest families. Given the limited mobility of young children, their 
developmental stage and their dependence upon caregivers, the program can improve  children’s nutritional 
and health status only by teaching their mothers better feeding and caring practices. In addition, ICDS is 
failing to reach most of the poorest households where the prevalence of child and maternal malnutrition is 
highest.  
Poriawadis
 were successful in Madhya Pradesh in reaching scattered tribal hamlets where the 
poorest people live.  They were described as a path-breaker to service quality improvement, and GOI is 
considering extending them into all ICDS states.
§
Quality is key
.  As the findings of the endline surveys in Madhya Pradesh and Bihar indicate, 
having a program in place does not automatically reduce the prevalence of malnutrition.  The type of 
activities financed and the quality of the services provided are equally important. Although the project has 
been successful in expanding coverage in both Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, little attention has been paid to 
the quality of the services provided either in existing or in newly created AWCs.  Given the holistic 
approach of ICDS towards early child development, AWWs carry out several other activities in addition to 
growth promotion.  In addition, AWWs are often the only visible Government functionaries in the village 
and their services are being utilized for the delivery of most Government programs.  Recognizing the 
constraints of AWWs and the risk of overburdening them, should stimulate the introduction of innovative 
- 18 -
Page  22
schemes, which would strengthen capacity, rationalize their roles and responsibilities and enhance 
performance of AWWs on the one side, and finance additional workers, if necessary, on the other side.
§
Use food distribution strategically
.
  
ICDS continues to be viewed by political leaders, government 
employees, and beneficiaries a program that provides pre-school education and child feeding.  However, 
successful nutrition interventions in India and other countries in South Asia have emphasized feeding, 
caring, and hygienic practices as the right instruments to address both severe and moderate malnutrition 
effectively.  The preoccupation with food distribution by all agents involved in the planning and delivery of 
ICDS services from the state level to the AWC has reduced the amount of attention given to inter-personal 
communications and counseling, which are vital for improving the behavior-related determinants of child 
and maternal nutrition.  Distribution of food should be used to leverage other important activities for early 
child development, including growth promotion and pre-school enrollment and attendance.
§
Endorse the promotion of child growth and development as part of a comprehensive strategy 
for behavioral change
.  Actual growth monitoring, which has been found to be very poor in Bihar and 
Madhya Pradesh because of a lack of equipment and a lack of initiative on the part of the AWWs 
respectively, needs to be strengthened and prioritized as a service for children and their mothers.  In 
addition, in order to translate into beneficial growth promotion for children, growth monitoring needs to be 
accompanied by counseling on feeding practices and on the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases 
with emphasis on changing mothers’ behavior.  Especially among scheduled casts and tribes, knowledge of 
growth-inducing behavior is almost entirely absent.  A comprehensive strategy is necessary so that the right 
messages are conveyed and the right behavior is demonstrated in several contact points.  An explicit 
strategy for communication, linked to community mobilization and backed up by high quality training and 
supervision, needs to be mainstreamed into the program.  Also, an efficient system for allowing AWWs to 
refer children with severe malnutrition to primary health facilities needs to be established with provision for 
AWC staff to follow up each case with the primary health facilities
.
 
§
Use the information system as a tool to promote and evaluate ICDS effectiveness and efficiency
.  AWWs are overburdened by the task of compiling many (often more than 13) registers, the information 
in which is not used.  The information system needs to be rationalized and simplified so that AWWs only 
have to collect information that is useful for project monitoring and management.  Data on child nutritional 
status need to be made more visible at more levels in the project management system and used to improve 
the way in which the services are delivered.  Comparable, high-quality anthropometric surveys should be 
carried out and analyzed regularly to inform the process of evaluation the impact of the interventions. 
Steps Forward
ICDS II has substantially improved important processes that were initiated in ICDS I, and these 
should be strengthened and brought into the mainstream of ICDS guidelines and protocols. 
§
Use women as the agents for change
.
  
The restructuring of the project during the Mid-term 
Review recognized the importance of adolescent girls’ forums as a crucial activity for the long-term success 
and sustainability of the investment.  Similarly, the successful experience of women’s groups in Madhya 
Pradesh in mobilizing resources and participating in the activities in the AWC proves that women are the 
forces behind social changes at the household level.  Both activities should become a central pillar of ICDS.  
The establishment of mothers’ committees in Andhra Pradesh has been very successful in promoting 
beneficiaries’ participation in and ownership of the ICDS program and has resulted in very effective 
supervision of the activities carried out in the AWCs.
- 19 -
Page  23
§
Deepen the community mobilization process
.  The experience of Madhya Pradesh indicates that a 
vertical central program like ICDS can be successfully incorporated into the activities of local institutions.  
The supervision of AWC activities by the 
panchayats
, especially if they were female-headed, has been a 
positive factor for promoting community-level ownership and eventual sustainability of the investment.  
ICDS has to become a flexible instrument that can adapt to the local situation to best meet the community’s 
needs.   This process requires a thorough understanding of the socioeconomic and cultural forces that 
define the dynamics of power in the communities and of how they can be best incorporated within the 
context of the vertical, administrative structure of ICDS to reduce malnutrition and poverty and promote 
early child development among the most disadvantaged groups.
§
Complete the unfinished agenda of quality and training
.
  
The focus on the quality and timing of 
training of project staff at all levels, which is a 
sine qua non
 for an efficient and effective intervention, has 
increased since the Mid-term Review.  There is great need to improve the capacity and skills of AWWs.  
For example, most of severely malnourished children are excluded from the program because they are not 
systematically identified and targeted by AWWs.  The development of a national training program financed 
by IDA in WCD is a move in the right direction and needs to be strengthened.  Training of district- and 
state-level officials is also inefficient and needs to be improved and strengthened.  
Strategic Issues
The next Bank-financed nutrition intervention in India through ICDS should build upon the 
experience it has accumulated over more than 20 years of financing nutrition and other development 
projects.
§
Structural reforms are needed
.  A lending framework for future projects should be used that can: 
(i) refocus the ICDS program towards the original nutrition objectives and identifying the actions that are 
needed to achieve such objectives; (ii) shift the program’s focus from inputs to outcomes, decision-making 
and results; (iii) 
introduce more flexibility in design and implementation in order to better take into account 
the heterogeneity of the participating states; (iv) decentralize more authority for design, implementation and 
accountability for performance to the states; (v) reward states with commitment to preventing and reducing 
malnutrition; (vi) address explicitly state-level capacity to utilize the Bank’s funds, especially for 
procurement activities and at the initial stage of the credit.
9. 
Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower
The rating is empirically questionable. The nutritional data analysis based on which the Project 
outcome has been rated as  “unsatisfactory”, has its severe limitations. Firstly, proxy data from the 
NFHS-I & II have been used despite the fact that they covered the entire States and they do not distinguish 
between the Project, non-Project and uncovered beneficiaries. For example, there are 1182 Community 
Development Blocks in four Project States, out of which ICDS-II covers 461 Blocks and ICDS General 
covers 350 Blocks, leaving out 371 Blocks, which are totally uncovered. In other words, ICDS-II Project 
covers only 39 percent of the total Blocks in the four Project States. So the DOs should not be judged with 
such surveys used here, unless project-specific analysis is made. Moreover, there also exist intra-State 
variations in the indicators. Therefore, abstracting any evaluation based on these indicators is not robust. 
- 20 -
Page  24
In the baseline surveys, nutritional status was calculated using IAP growth standards (referred in 
SAR). Ideally, the same standard should have been used in the analysis of end line survey data by the 
World Bank, along with NCHS Standards. The end line survey report submitted by the Govt.of Madhya 
Pradesh has used IAP Standards showing significant improvement in the nutritional status of 0-3 yrs 
children (severe cases).  It is not known why the World Bank has not made use of these findings brought 
out by the external agencies. It is surprising that no data on “low birth weight incidence” has been 
furnished though they are available in the end line surveys. 
Moreover, in the absence of nutritional data analysis in two States (Bihar & Jharkhand) and 
non-availability of baseline data (Chhattisgarh & Jharkhand), no conclusive judgment on the achievement 
of the Project as a whole is possible. It is not logical to use NFHS-II data as ‘baseline’ in respect of 
Chhattisgarh while concluding that the target of malnutrition has been achieved partially, since the period 
covered is only about 3 years. Therefore, it may be concluded that the analysis is incomplete and the 
empirical evidence provided in Table A is insufficient. 
The present methodology for evaluation seems to have not fully taken into account the 
distinctiveness and uniqueness of social sector Project. As brought out by the World Bank’s Economic 
Development Institute, a social sector Project cannot be evaluated in an economic “input-output model” 
approach. According to Valadez and Bamberger (“
Monitoring & Evaluating Social Programs in 
Developing Countries
”, The World Bank, 1994), “….the results of the Project would not be visible during 
its life span or by the time it has finished.  Effects can appear later in the future and in a context we will not 
be able to determine to what extent changes or actions taking place are due to the Project’s past 
intervention. Even though a Project might not accomplish its initial goals (the predetermined parameters 
against which evaluation is supposed to rest), the Project can still be a success (in that it contributes to 
developing or strengthening community institutions)”.
These assertions are more relevant since ICDS is a multipurpose vehicle aimed at holistic 
development of children (0-6 years) and pregnant & lactating women through nutrition, pre-school 
education and convergence with health services and universalisation of elementary education. Malnutrition 
is a multi-dimensional problem, it is an outcome of a complex set of factors such as child care practices, 
socio-economic, cultural & biological factors, access to health care, hygiene & sanitation and food security, 
etc. Nutrition is one of the main, but not the only service delivery under ICDS. Therefore, malnutrition 
alone cannot be the sole criteria to judge the ICDS Scheme. Thus, there is need to re-visit the DOs. 
Separately, though DOs have not been met, there are significant positive changes in IMR and reduction in 
childhood malnutrition in Bihar. Also, in Madhya Pradesh, there is some improvement in nutritional status 
of 0-3 years children (underweight).  
Moreover, the processes are equally important, and the process objectives, like registration of 
beneficiaries, construction of AWCs, CDPO buildings and hand pumps, formation of Womens’ Groups, 
scheme of Adolescent Girls, etc., have shown very significant achievements.
The Borrower's Project Evaluation Report is attached as Annex 9.  Because of space constraints, 
the Annexes that refer to the Evaluation Reports of the implementing agencies (the participating states) 
have not been included.  However, the information provided has been used as input for the preparation of 
the ICR. Moreover, some slected sections are included in the text of the Borrower's 
Project Evaluation 
Report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 21 -
Page  25
There were no co-financiers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
UNICEF 
The Implementation Completion Report provides a comprehensive analysis of the development 
outcomes, achievements, key issues and lessons learnt from ICDS II.  It provides valuable insights for 
accelerating improvements in young child survival, growth and development outcomes, and a road map for 
future policy and programme development.  It highlights particularly well the need to accelerate reduction 
in malnutrition in states such as Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarh, Bihar and Jharkhand, through preventive 
strategies, intervening as early as possible, to address an intergenerational cycle of malnutrition, gender 
discrimination and poverty. The report also indicates the need to accelerate strategies for addressing micro 
nutrient deficiencies- Vitamin A, Anaemia, Iodine Deficiency Disorders, by  strengthening routine systems, 
within the context of a holistic malnutrition prevention strategy. There is clear emphasis on a life cycle 
approach, addressing the prenatal – under three years period  and nutritional anaemia in adolescent girls.
UNICEF's partnership and technical collaboration in World Bank-assisted ICDS Projects has 
aimed at     improving young child survival, growth and development outcomes, through an emphasis on 
quality improvement.  This includes improvement in the quality of family and community early child caring 
practices, improvement in ICDS service quality, through the development and testing of innovative 
community based  early childcare models, innovative training and communication approaches, and 
strengthening of an  enabling policy environment. Dular in Bihar and Jharkhand is an example of 
community-based early child care model, using a life cycle approach, while Bal Sanjeevani is an example 
of a systems quality improvement in Madhya Pradesh. The partnership was initiated with WCD, with 
collaboration in project preparation and design, through social assessment studies and stakeholder 
consultations in five states and soon extended to all World Bank-assisted ICDS projects, and beyond 
collaboration in project design, to a highly productive partnership in improving the quality of programme 
implementation and monitoring.  Regular joint monthly reviews with the government of India, participation 
in supervision missions, high level ministerial inter state reviews with  State Secretaries, thematic inter state 
consultations, state reviews/ consultations, joint field visits, participation in the World Bank Intersectoral 
Technical Advisory Group on ECD, have been very useful.
Both research and program implementation experience have established the effectiveness of an 
integrated approach to early child care -- improving home health , hygiene, infant and young child feeding 
practices, psychosocial care and early learning, care for girls and women.  The same kind of responsive 
care behaviours that promote good nutrition also promote good broader development outcomes. Many  
require the same kinds of skills of caregivers.  Combined interventions to improve both physical growth and 
psychological development have an even greater impact in disadvantaged populations at risk of 
malnutrition than either one alone.  As the  restructuring of WCD moves forward, there is need to build 
upon the lessons learnt from ICDS II,  to accelerate strategies to prevent malnutrition as early as possible, 
across the life cycle, and to promote integrated early child development. 
World Food Programme
Distribution of food can play an important role in programmes that address child and maternal 
malnutrition.  The main objective of any Mother and Child Nutrition Programme (and ICDS as such is not 
different in its strategic approach) is to reduce the prevalence of malnutrition and improve the health of 
vulnerable groups, especially women and children.  In most of MCH programmes including ICDS, the role 
- 22 -
Page  26
of food has clearly evolved.  Food supplementation is no longer the core vehicle for achieving nutritional 
results but is an entry point to enhance the effectiveness of other nutrition activities such as growth 
monitoring, education, behavioral changes, breastfeeding and cognitive development.  Some programmes 
have phased this component out completely but there is no evidence that these programmes have been more 
successful in improving nutrition status. 
In a country like India, where the main problem is food access and consumption of the right quality 
of food, where malnutrition in certain areas can be clearly attributed to the lack of food access at household 
level, direct feeding intervention through social safety nets such as ICDS is a precondition for any 
nutritional improvement.  One of the most important component of the ICDS II programme is the focus “on 
behavior change, especially with respect to infant feeding practice”.  It is most unlikely that families will be 
in a position to apply their knowledge about improved feeding practices and behaviors if additional food is 
not provided.  The question remain however to target adequately the area where food intervention is 
required and these would be in place where lack of food access and inadequate food intake at household 
level is a major contributing factor to malnutrition. In these areas, rather than eliminating that component 
we would suggest to reinforce the other components of the programme, including education and caring and 
hygienic practices.  It may be wrong to expect that releasing the AWWs of the concern of food would result 
in an improvement in the other component of the programme. 
 
The aspect of the high prevalence of micronutrient deficiencies and the role that fortified food can 
play to reduce should also be underscored.  In all WFP-supported ICDS areas, fortified food is provided 
and this is often the only source of vitamin and mineral that is available to the population.  This is 
particularly the case in drought prone area such as Madhya Pradesh.  Considerable efforts are being put in 
place in several poor States including Madhya Pradesh to use ICDS as a channel for the vulnerable groups 
to have access to micronutrient through the provision of fortified food produced by the State itself 
ICDS is failing to reach children below three years of age among the poorest households.  To 
achieve these objectives both CARE and WFP have used Taken Home Rations as a successful strategy in 
their areas of intervention.  Mothers would come to the centers on a certain day and receive a monthly 
ration for themselves and their infants.  The size of the ration would be sufficiently economically attractive 
to be a good incentive to attract the poorest households.  The fortified ration would ensure that the families 
also receive a source of micronutrient.
10. 
Additional Information
None.
- 23 -
Page  27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix
 
Projected in last PSR
1
Actual/Latest Estimate
 
1.  Prevalence of severe malnutrition among 
children aged 6 to 36 months. (Target:  50 
percent reduction in MP and 40 percent in 
Bihar)
No projections made
25.5 percent (Bihar), 24.3 percent (MP),  
NFHS II (1998/99)
2.  Prevalence of moderate malnutrition 
among children aged 6 to 36 months. 
(Target:  20 percent reduction in MP and 25 
percent in Bihar)
No projections made
54.4 percent (Bihar), 55.1 percent (MP), 
NFHS II (1998/99)
3.  Low birth weight incidence. 
(Target:  30 percent reduction in MP and in 
Bihar)
No projections made
NA
See Section 4.1 for an explanation of the indocators and a description of the data.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix
 
Projected in last PSR
1
Actual/Latest Estimate
 
Mothers receiving tetanus toxoide vaccination
No projections made
57.8 percent (Bihar), 55.0 percent (MP), 
NFHS II (1998/99)
Total registration of pregnant women (target 
80% in MP and 75% in Bihar
No projections made
NA
Food supplementation of pregnant women 
with inadequate nutrition status (at least 20 
weeks) (target 80% in MP and 80% in Bihar)
No projections made
NA
Food supplementation of registered nursing 
women with malnutritionin pregnancy (at least 
16 weeks) (target 90% in MP and 75% in 
Bihar)
No projections made
NA
Regular growth monitoring of children under 
3 years of age (quarterly) (target 100% in MP 
and 80% in Bihar
No projections made
NA
Supplemenation of moderately and serverly 
malnouishes children 6-36 months (90% in 
MP and 80% in Bihar)
No projections made
NA
1
 
End of project
- 24 -
Page  28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Original Allocation in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and Actual Use of Credit Funds 
across Expenditure Categories 
(SDR Million equivalent)
Original 
Allocation
Original 
Allocation
Actual Use
Actual Use
Amount of 
Original 
Allocation / 
Amount of Actual 
Use
Amount
Percentage of 
Total
Amount
Percentage of 
Total
(1) Civil Works
18.2
12.9%
78.8
55.6%
432.9%
        (a) ICDS
        18.2
        12.9%
        51.7*
        36.5%*
        284.0%*
        (b) Gujarat Earthquake Reconstruction
        27.1
        19.1%
(2) Furniture, Equipment, IEC Material, 
Vehicles and Medicines
27.4
19.4%
15.7
11.1%
57.4%
(3) Consultants' services, training, publicity 
services and services of NGOs
18.2
12.9%
3.8
2.7%
21.1%
(4) Preparation of Future Project
0.4
0.3%
0.03
0.02%
6.4%
(5) Incremental Operating Costs
67.9
48.0%
43.3
30.6%
63.8%
(6) Unallocated
9.5
6.7%
(7) SA-Special Account
-0.1**
Total
141.6
141.6
Source
: World Bank's Integrated Controller's Systems.
*Also includes civil works for ICDS in Andhra Pradesh.  Given that no new categories of expenditure were created 
when the DCA was amended to include the financing of ICDS in Andhra Pradesh, the World Bank information 
system does not allow distinguishing between civil works in Bihar, Jharkhand, Madya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh 
on one side and civil works in Andhra Pradesh on the other side.
**Represents the exchange rate fluctuation between the SDR and US$ from the time of advance to the Special 
Account and the recovery of the Special Account.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
 (US$ Million equivalent)
____________________________________________________________________
Project Element
Procurement Method
Total
ICB
LCB
Other
NBF
Costs
1.
Works
1.1
Civil Works
-
11.0
20.4
-
31.4
-
(9.3)
(17.4)
-
(26.7)
2.
Goods
2.1
Equipment
-
10.4
2.7
-
13.1
-
(8.8)
(2.3)
-
(11.1)
2.2
Vehicles
-
-
8.0
-
8.0
-
-
(6.4)
-
(6.4)
2.3
Furniture
-
0.4
0.8
-
1.2
-
(0.4)
(0.6)
-
(1.0)
2.4
Medicine
-
12.4
8.3
-
20.7
-
(11.2)
(7.5)
-
(18.7)
2.5
IEC Materials
-
3.4
0.5
-
3.9
- 25 -
Page  29
-
(2.7)
(0.4)
-
(3.1)
3.
Training/Technical
Assistance
3.1
Local Training
-
-
13.2
-
13.2
-
-
(13.2)
-
(13.2)
3.2
Publicity, NGO and
-
-
14.4
-
14.4
Consultant Services
-
-
(14.2)
-
(14.2)
4.
Miscellaneous
4.1
Incremental Salaries
-
-
120.1
-
120.1
-
-
(84.0)
-
(84.0)
4.2
Office Supplies
-
3.8
2.5
-
6.3
-
(2.6)
(1.8)
-
(4.4)
4.3
Incremental Operating
-
-
16.5
-
16.5
Costs
-
-
(11.2)
-
(11.2)
Total
-
41.4
207.4
248.8
-
(35.0)
(159.0)
(194.0)
______________________________________________________________________
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.  All costs include contingencies.
The actual values for the corresponding fgures were not available at the time of writing the ICR.
Project Financing
Project financing data at appraisal are not available by component. For the project as a whole, IDA and 
GOI were expected to provide US$194.0 million (77.9 percent of the total) and US$54.8 (22.1 percent of 
the total) respectively.
- 26 -
Page  30
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 27 -
Page  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle
Performance Rating
 No. of Persons and Specialty
 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Month/Year
  Count 
    Specialty
Implementation
Progress
Development
Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/08/1991
6
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST 
(2); NUTRITION SPECIALIST 
(1); PUBLIC HEALTH 
SPECIALI ST (1); 
CONSULTANT (2)
11/11/1991
4
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST 
(1); NUTRITION SPECIALIST 
(1); SOCIOLOGIST (1); 
PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST 
(1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/02/1992
7
PUBLIC HEALTH 
SPECIALIST (1); 
NUTRITION SPECIALIST 
(1); SOCIOLOGIST (2); 
MANAGEMENT 
SPECIALIST (1); 
CONSULTANT (2)
Supervision
07/27/1993
5
PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1); 
SR. OPERATIONS OFCR (1); 
PRIN. NUTRITION SPEC. (1); 
COMMUNICATIONS (1); 
SOCIOLOGIST (1)
S
S
11/23/1993
3
PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1); 
SR. OPERATIONS OFCR. (1); 
COMMUNICATIONS (1)
S
S
02/28/1994
6
PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1); 
SR. OPERATIONS OFCR. (1); 
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT 
(1); COMMUNICATIONS (1); 
NUTRITION & EVALUATION 
(1); TRIBAL POPULATIONS 
(1)
U
U
07/28/1994
5
SR. OPERATIONS OFCR. (1); 
PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1); 
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT 
(1); COMMUNICATIONS (1); 
NUTRITION & EVALUATION 
(1)
U
U
05/14/1995
6
TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC 
U
U
- 28 -
Page  32
HEALTH (1); PROJECT MT. 
(CONS) (1); 
COMMUNICATIONS (1); 
COMMUNICATIONS (CONS) 
(1); FINANCE (1)
03/14/1996
4
TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC 
HEALTH (1); PROJECT MT. 
(CONS) (1); FINANCE (1)
S
S
09/19/1996
3
PHN ADVISER, TASK MGR. 
(1); 
PROJ.MGMT.(CONSULTANT) 
(1); FINANCE (1)
S
S
12/20/1996
1
NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1)
S
S
06/06/1997
2
PROJECT SPECIALIST (1); 
NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1)
S
S
07/03/1997
3
PROJECT SPECIALIST (1); 
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST 
(1); NUTRITION SPECIALIST 
(1)
S
S
01/29/1998
5
ADVISOR HNP (1); PROJECT 
SPECIALIST (1); NUTRITION 
SPECIALIST (2); 
MANAGEMENT 
CONSULTANT (1)
S
S
05/26/1998
5
NUTRITION SPECIALIST (2); 
PROJECT SPECIALIST (1); 
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST 
(1); COSULTANT ARCHITECT 
(1)
U
U
05/25/1999
6
NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1); 
PRINCIPAL HEALTH 
SPECIALIST (1); PUBLIC 
HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); 
MANAGEMENT 
CONSULTANT (1); 
RESEARCH ANALYST (1); 
OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR (1)
S
S
11/19/1999
3
NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1); 
PRIN. HEALTH SPECIALIST 
(1); PUBLIC HEALTH 
SPECIALIST (1)
S
S
02/15/2000
2
NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1); 
CONSULTANT 
MANAGEMENT (1) 
S
S
11/24/2000
6
SENIOR. NUTRITION 
SPECIALIST (1); LEAD 
HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); 
SENIOR PUBLIC HEALTH 
SPECIALIST (1); SENIOR 
HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); 
SENIOR PROCUREMENT 
SPECIALIST (1); 
MANAGEMENT 
S
S
- 29 -
Page  33
CONSULTANT (1)
2
SENIOR NUTRITION 
SPECIALIST (1); 
MANAGEMENT 
CONSULTANT (1)
S
S
12/14/2001
3
SENIOR NUTRITION 
SPECIALIST (1); LEAD 
HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); 
MANAGEMENT 
CONSULTANT (1)
S
S
06/25/2002
4
SENIOR NUTRITION 
SPECIALIST (1); LEAD 
HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); 
MANAGEMENT 
CONSULTANT (1); 
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
SPECIALIST CONSULTANT 
(1)
S
S
09/28/2002
7
SENIOR NUTRITION 
SPECIALIST (1); LEAD 
HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); 
RESEARCH ANALYST (1); 
SENIOR FINANCIAL 
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST 
(1); SENIOR PROCUREMENT 
SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL 
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST 
CONSULTANT (1); SENIOR 
HEALTH SPECIALIST (1) 
S
S
ICR
12/03/2002
2
HEALTH ECONOMIST 
(1); PUB. HEALTH SP. (1)
S
S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle
Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks
US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
137.8
320.10
Appraisal/Negotiation
118.4
177.00
Supervision
266.8
509.70
ICR
25.04
85.00
Total 
548.04
1,091.80
- 30 -
Page  34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
 Rating
Macro policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Sector Policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Physical
H
SU
M
N
NA
Financial
H
SU
M
N
NA
Institutional Development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Environmental
H
SU
M
N
NA
Social
Poverty Reduction
H
SU
M
N
NA
Gender
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
Community Mobilization/Participation
Private sector development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Public sector management
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
- 31 -
Page  35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(
HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
Lending
HS
S
U
HU
Supervision
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
6.2  Borrower performance
Rating
Preparation
HS
S
U
HU
Government implementation performance
HS
S
U
HU
Implementation agency performance
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
- 32 -
Page  36
Annex 7. 
List of Supporting Documents
Chatterjee, M. "Lessons Learned from 20 Years of ICDS." World Bank. Processed.1996.
1.
Chatterjee, M. "Does ICDS Alleviate Poverty?" World Bank. Processed. 1997.
2.
Department of Women and Child Development. "Integrated Child Development Services" 
3.
(pamphlet). 2000.
Department of Women and Child Development. "Status report for the review of World Bank 
4.
assisted 
ICDS". 2002
Department of Women and Child Development. "Status report of ICDS II, Bihar". 2002.
5.
Government of India. "National Nutrition Policy". New Delhi: Department of Women and Child 
6.
Development. 1993.
Heywood, P. "Analysis of ICDS II data". 2002.
7.
Heywood, P. Personal communication on Integrated Child Development Services. 2003.
8.
International Institute for Population Sciences. "National Family Health Survey: Bihar  
9.
1992-1993".1994.
International Institute for Population Sciences. "National Family Health Survey: Bihar 
10.
1998-1999". 2000.
International Institute for Population Sciences. "National Family Health Survey: Madhya Pradesh 
11.
1992-1993". 1994.
International Institute for Population Sciences. "National Family Health Survey: Madhya Pradesh 
12.
1998-1999". 2000.
Measham A, Chatterjee M. "Wasting Away: the crisis of malnutrition in India". World Bank. 
13.
1999.
Quality Assurance Group. "Quality of supervision assessment: Integrated Child Development 
14.
Services". 1998.
Quality Assurance Group. "Quality of supervision of risky project: Integrated Child Development 
15.
Services". 2001.
World Bank. "India Public Expenditure Review, Annex IVC: Nutrition Sector." Processed. 1993.
16.
World Bank. Aide Memoires of the Second Integrated Child Development Services II. 1992-2002.
17.
World Bank. "Implementation Completion Report: Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition Project". 2002.
18.
World Bank. "Implementation Completion Report: India Integrated Child Development Services 
19.
Project (Credit 2173-IN)". 1998.
World Bank. "Implementation Completion Report: India Second Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition 
20.
Project". 1998.
World Bank. "Memorandum of the president to the executive directors on a Country Assistance 
21.
Strategy for India." 2001.
World Bank. "Mid Term Review: India, Integrated Child Development Services II". 1998.
22.
World Bank. "Project Appraisal Document: India, Integrated Child Development Services". 1989.
23.
World Bank. "Project Appraisal Document: India, Integrated Child Development Services". 1992.
24.
World Bank. "Project Status Reports 1-26 for Integrated Child Development Services II". 
25.
1992-2002.
World Bank. "Women and Child Development (ICDS III) Project Assessment Document". 1998.
26.
World Food Programme. "Tackling hunger: United Nations World Food Programme’s effort to 
27.
help eliminate food insecurity in India". 2002.
- 33 -
Page  37
Additional Annex 
8
. 
Shortcomings in the Collection of Data on Nutritional Status
The process of collecting the data on nutritional status to monitor progress and assess impact has 
not been very successful. The 
baseline surveys
 for the project were done by the National Institute of 
Nutrition (NIN) in 1992-93.  However, these data are not useful as the Indian Association of Pediatrics 
(IAP) growth standards were used to estimate the prevalence of malnutrition instead of the internationally 
used National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) growth standards.  The 
mid-term surveys
 were dropped 
because of delays in their implementation.  The NFHS I and NFHS II, which were fielded in 1992-93 and 
1998-99 respectively, can be used as baseline and mid-term references even though they do not distinguish 
between children who received ICDS II services and children who did not, thus making it impossible to 
attribute any changes to the impact of the project.  At the time when the ICR was being written, the 
endline 
surveys
, which were designed with technical assistance from the World Bank and follow the same survey 
design as the NFHS I and NFHS II, were completed in the states of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and 
Chhattisgarh.  However, errors in the computation of children’s age have made the anthropometric data for 
Bihar unusable.  In Jharkhand, the selection of for the consultancy firm was delayed, and the data were not 
available at the time of writing this ICR.  
Moreover, the NFHS surveys were conducted for unified Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, and the 
prevalence of child malnutrition was calculated among children younger than 4 years old with NFHS I data 
and among children younger than 3 years old with NFHS II and endline data.  Even though it is not 
possible to do a rigorous impact evaluation, which requires age- and area-consistent baseline and endline 
information for both intervention and control groups,  it is possible to compare estimates from different 
sources to present the trends in target indicators in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, and Jharkhand.  
- 34 -
Page  38
Additional Annex 
9
. 
Borrower's Project Evaluation Report
1.
Introduction
1.1
The Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Scheme was launched in the country in 33
 
Blocks (Projects) in 1975. Today the Scheme has gradually expanded to cover 5652 Blocks. The Scheme
 
aims at holistic development of children (0-6 years) with respect to  basic elements of human resource
 
development, viz. nutrition, health and education along with pregnant and lactating mothers from
 
disadvantaged sections. As on 30-9-2002, services are being provided to 332 lakh children (0-6 years) and 
about 62 lakh pregnant and lactating mothers through a network of 5.8 lakh Anganwadi Centres (AWCs). 
In addition,
 
Kishori Shakti Yojana
, a scheme for adolescent girls, addressing intergenerational cycle of
 
malnutrition is under implementation in 2000 blocks in the country.
1.2
Alongside gradual expansion of the Scheme, there has also been a significant increase in the
 
Central Government’s spending on the implementation of the Scheme. As against an expenditure of Rs.
 
2271.28 crore during the 8th Five Year Plan, a sum of Rs.5440.14 crore was spent on ICDS in the 9th
 
Plan, which ended on March 31, 2002. The Plan allocation for the 10th Plan (2002-2007) is Rs.10391.75 
crore.
1.3
While Supplementary Nutrition is State Governments’ responsibility, Additional Central
 
Assistance (ACA) for nutrition to all States under
 
Pradhan Mantri Gramodaya Yojana
 (PMGY) is
 
provided as additionality for supplying enhanced nutrition to children in the age group 0-3 years.  
1.4
To combat malnutrition in the country, the Prime Minister, during his Independence Day address 
on 15th August 2001, had announced that a National Nutrition Mission would be lunched, and, under this, 
subsidized food grains would be made available to adolescent girls and expectant and nursing mothers,
 
belonging to below-poverty-line families. As a first intervention, the Planning Commission has allocated
 
Rs.103.33 crore for 2002-03, as a special central assistance to States to provide free food grains to
 
undernourished adolescent girls and pregnant & lactating mothers in 51 identified districts. 
1.5
The Central Government at its highest level has been closely monitoring sufficient provisioning for 
SNP by the States to cover all beneficiaries in the States. Planning Commission has also been requested to 
address this aspect during formulation and monitoring of States’ Annual Plans. 
1.6
The ICDS Scheme has been continued in the 10th Plan with an allocation of Rs. 10391.75 crore. 
Taking into account the critical role of Anganwadi Workers and Anganwadi Helpers in delivery of the
 
services and in recognition of the significant services being provided by them, the honoraria being provided 
to them has been almost doubled with effect from April 1 2002. 
1.7
With a view to optimizing coverage of beneficiaries within the available resources, States have
 
been authorized to review and relocate the Anganwadi Centres, wherever appropriate, within the overall
 
ceiling of existing Projects and Centres. The elaborate guidelines to clarify the basic registration, financial 
and nutritional norms under ICDS were amended during 2002-03. With concerted efforts, the registration
 
under ICDS has increased. The supplementary nutrition beneficiaries have increased from 2.90 crore in
 
March 2001 to 3.94 crore in September 2002. The number of supplementary nutrition beneficiaries per
 
AWC has increased from 70 in March 2001 to 84 in September 2002.
1.8
The Government of India is deeply committed to early childhood care and education. The
 
- 35 -
Page  39
Department’s emphasis has been on integrated and holistic development of children, as far as the two basic 
elements of human resource development, i.e., health and education, are concerned. Article 45 of the
 
Constitution of India has been recently amended to state: “The State shall endeavor to provide early
 
childhood care and education for all children until they complete the age of 6 years”. Accordingly, in
 
addition to emphasis on Supplementary Nutrition and health of children, special focus is also being given to 
pre-school education component of the Scheme.  The States have been requested to ensure necessary
 
convergence between ICDS Scheme and
 
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan (SSA)
 & District Primary Education
 
Programme (DPEP).
1.9
Success of the ICDS-II Project was dependent upon socio-economic conditions, which existed
 
among the five participating Project States.  Therefore, before an attempt is made to estimate improvement 
in the nutritional status of children, it may be pertinent to take cognizance of this and of the fact that
 
malnutrition is a multi-dimensional problem.  It is an outcome of a complex set of factors like female
 
illiteracy; her status in the family; ignorance about nutrition, health / sanitation issues; gender
 
discrimination against the girl-child; her early marriage and early pregnancy; poor access to health-care
 
facilities etc.
2.
Second Integrated Child Development Services Project (ICDS-II)
2.1
The Second Integrated Child Development Services Project (ICDS-II) was launched in the year
 
1993 for a period of seven years, to cover 454 Blocks (Projects) in the States of Madhya Pradesh and Bihar 
with a total outlay of Rs. 596.23 crore.  The IDA Credit available for the Project was US$ 194 million.
 
Despite slow disbursement in the initial years of the Project, about Rs. 547.00 crore were spent upto the
 
end of the Project, i.e., September 2000. The Project also envisaged provision of additional components,
 
over and above the normal ICDS services, to strengthen the Programme in the Project areas. These are:
i)
Civil Works: Anganwadi buildings at village level, CDPO Offices-cum-Go-downs at Block level 
and hand pumps (in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh)
ii)
Schemes for Adolescent Girls
iii)
Skill up-gradation/development for women
iv)
Income Generation Schemes for women
v)
Women’s Integrated Learning for Life (WILL)
2.2
However, mainly due to rupee depreciation
 
vis-à-vis
 US dollar, only US$ 101 million were
 
disbursed upto September 2000 resulting in savings of about US$ 93 million. To utilize these savings, the
 
Project was restructured/extended for two more years from October 2000 to September 2002. During the
 
extended period, the ICDS component of Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project (APER), for
 
which a different World Bank Credit exists, was also included. During this period, additional 446 Blocks 
were covered and the Project outlay was recast at Rs.611.58 crore. For the extended period of two years, 
all the activities taken up were according to the pattern and norm of ICDS-General excepting for
 
ICDS-APER for which original activities of ICDS-APER continued.
3.
Overview of the Project Implementation
3.1
Like in all other new Projects, ICDS-II Project also had a difficult start initially in both the States
. 
However, both Bihar and Madhya Pradesh implemented the Project successfully including making up for 
the loss of time in the initial years.
3.2
Project Implementation underwent certain changes with extension/ restructuring of the Project for 
- 36 -
Page  40
two years after September 2000, as explained above in para 2.2. In November, 2000,with the bifurcation of 
the States of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, the successor States of Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and
 
Chhattisgarh were also included in the Project implementation and for which apportionment of the
 
provisions were made among the four States by GOI. 
3.3
However, in spite of best of efforts from GOI, newly created States of Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh 
could not get IDA funds till date because the World Bank required the successor States of Jharkhand and 
Chhattisgarh to sign the Project Agreement under ICDS-II which could not be done due to non-completion 
of some procedural formalities by the World Bank. At the same time, the successor States of Madhya
 
Pradesh and Bihar (as against the original undivided States) continued to get IDA assistance. For GOI, all 
the four successor States were on same pedestal and all loans/agreements with original undivided States
 
continued to be applicable to successor States. Therefore, GOI continued to fund ICDS-II activities in
 
Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh with non-IDA funds. The Bank has now proposed to fund activities in these
 
two States from their date of creation under the restructured ICDS-III Project, which is being examined by 
GOI. However, it is important to note that the overall financing plan for the ICDS II project for categories 
is higher than in the ICDS III project.  Overall, the performance of the States was satisfactory with more
 
than 100% expenditure against disbursement of the approved IDA credit. In addition, some eligible SOEs 
from Madhya Pradesh and Bihar are yet to be re-imbursed.
3.4
An amount of US $ 35 million from ICDS-II Credit was diverted to the Gujarat Earthquake Relief 
Fund.  
3.5
Annex 1 gives the details on (i) grants released by GOI (ii) expenditure incurred by the States and 
(iii) World Bank disbursement for the five States.
4.
Impact Objectives  
4.1
Though the Project seeks to strengthen the capacity of the ICDS Programme by providing certain 
services in the Project areas, for measuring the impact of the Project, it laid down the following specific
 
impact objectives. 
i)
reduction in the incidence of severe malnutrition among children aged 6 to 36 months by 50 
percent in unified Madhya Pradesh and 40 percent  in unified Bihar, 
ii)
reduction in moderate malnutrition among children aged 6 to 36 months by 20 percent in unified 
Madhya Pradesh and 25 percent in unified Bihar , and
iii)
reduction in low birth weight incidence by 30 percent in both unified Madhya Pradesh and 
Bihar.  
4.2
Baseline surveys for the Project were conducted in the undivided States of Madhya Pradesh and
 
Bihar during 1993. End line surveys have been completed in the States of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh
 
and Bihar during 2002. The same could not be initiated in Jharkhand till the writing of this report. The end 
line report of Madhya Pradesh highlights the achievement of two development objectives
 
viz.
, severe
 
malnutrition among the children 0-3 years and low birth weight incidence. Some of the end line survey
 
findings are available in the State Government’s Evaluation Reports in Part B of this report.
5.
Process Objectives  
5.1
The specific process objectives included registration of (i) pregnant women (ii) food supplements 
for at least 20 weeks to malnourished pregnant women (iii) food supplement for at least 16 weeks for
 
- 37 -
Page  41
nursing women (iv) food supplement of moderately and severely malnourished children and (v) regular
 
growth monitoring of children under three years.  
5.2
The reports of the end-line surveys contain data sets on the above indicators, which are being
 
analyzed to measure the impact in respect of the above process objectives. Some of the notable features in 
respect of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh may be seen at Annex 1 & 2 in Part B of this Report.
5.3
One of the notable achievements of implementation of the Project was construction of Anganwadi 
Centres and CDPO Offices-cum-Godowns as part of infrastructure development for ICDS.   During this
 
period more than 22,000 Anganwadi Centers, 490 CDPO Office-cum-Godowns and 11,000 hand-pumps
 
were constructed.  The figures also reflect meeting the respective targets by 93 percent in AWCs and 97 
percent in CDPO offices and 90 percent in hand-pumps. Infrastructure development on such a large scale
 
allowed for better delivery and visibility of the programme. 
6.
Training
6.1
For successful implementation of the ICDS programme, training of its functionaries is a
 
pre-requisite.  For this purpose a countrywide ICDS Training Programme (1999-2004) UDISHA is being 
implemented with World Bank assistance.  It has three major components viz., (i) Regular Training (ii)
 
Other Training (wherein innovative, area specific trainings are provided) (iii) IEC etc.  For quality delivery 
of services, guidelines have been issued to States for formulating State Training Action Plans (STRAPs)
 
aimed to cover backlog of training with quality. The programme has also helped in infrastructure
 
development like establishment of a network of Anganwadi Training Centres (AWTCs) and Middle Level 
Training Centres (MLTCs).  Decentralized system of training has also been introduced in the country
 
wherein State Training Institutes are being identified and developed to meet local training needs.  The apex 
Institute of National Institute of Public Cooperation and Child Development (NIPCCD) would now be
 
undertaking only quality control of training and cutting edge training.  The old syllabi of Job & Induction 
Training of AWWs have been revised taking into account new developments and States have been given
 
freedom to add state-specific aspects.  The training component under ICDS-II followed same guidelines.
 
For example, joint training of health and ICDS functionaries in the States has improved convergence of
 
services.  All the ICDS-II states have implemented UDISHA from 1999 onwards.
7.
Specific Interventions
Madhya Pradesh
7.1
Madhya Pradesh was among the first States to launch its own State Women’s Policy in 1995. The 
objective of the policy was not only to protect the honour and dignity of women, but also to integrate
 
women at all levels into the mainstream of development and to ensure their economic upliftment. Decisions 
like allotment of land to be made jointly in the name of husband and wife, reservation upto 30 percent in all 
Government jobs etc., were implemented for their upliftment.
7.2
The rural and urban local bodies, the Gram
 
Panchayats
/
Gram Sabhas
 and the Nagar
 
Panchayat/Nagar Palikas have been delegated a number of functions and powers under the scheme. These
 
bodies are responsible for the recruitment of the Anganwadi Workers/Helpers, for site selection and
 
construction of the Anganwadi Centres. More than 1,30,000 Self Help Groups (SHGs) have been
 
constituted in the State. These SHGs worked with ICDS functionaries and better implementation of  the
 
programme has been achieved.
- 38 -
Page  42
7.3
A separate State Policy for Nutrition has also been framed on the lines of the National Nutrition
 
Policy. This policy is being implemented in coordination with varies departments of the government. 
Chhattisgarh
7.4
In Chhattisgarh, in addition to normal ICDS Schemes, some innovative programmes and schemes 
are being implemented in the State, which run in consonance with the objectives under ICDS. These are
 
summarized below:
i)
Indira Sahara Yojana
:  Rs.150/- pension per month to widows, handicapped and destitute women 
in the age group of 18-50 years.
ii)
Indira Soochna Shakti Yojana
: Free computer education to girl students from class 9th onwards
iii)
Indira Gaon Ganga Yojana
: Filling of at least one local pond in each village through hand pump to 
ensure one assured source of drinking water in each village.
iv)
Indira Hareli Saheli Yojana
: Land Pattas are being given to women to grow trees on fallow land.
v)
Bal Bhoj
: Women SHGs are formed in ACS and it is called 
Mahlila Mandal
.  They collect foods 
etc. and arrange to provide nutritious foods to children of the village once in a week of fortnight.  
vi)
Adoption of Malnourished Child
:  Women SHGs are now coming forward to adopt malnourished 
children and taking complete responsibility for their balanced diet.
vii)
Creation of Child Heath Fund
: Women SHGs are collecting funds from villages to provide 
medicine to ailing children
Bihar 
7.5
In Bihar with devolution of powers to Panchayat bodies, community participation is being done
 
through village level community who looks after supplementary nutrition, arrange meetings of Mahila
 
Mandals, select sites for Anganwadi Centres as also in the matter of selection of AWWs and AWHs.
7.6
The State Government has decentralized the Supplementary Nutrition Programme to the
 
Anganwadi Centres in 2001. The local village community has been actively involved in the programme as it 
is being managed and executed by a specific Committee of which an elected beneficiary is the President and 
the Anganwadi Worker is the Secretary.  CDPO and Lady Supervisor are active members of the
 
Committee.
7.7
The State Govt. has created a separate cadre of Child Development Project Officers  (CDPOs) for 
women only.   Before bifurcation of the State, a total number of 253 CDPOs were appointed by the State
 
Govt. as a separate cadre under the ICDS Programme for its better implementation and monitoring, and to 
bring about a qualitative improvement in the delivery of ICDS Services.  State-specific induction training
 
provided by the Government by Bihar under UNICEF assistance has added quality to the overall
 
monitoring of the ICDS in the state.
Jharkhand
7.8
Govt. of Jharkhand has been promoting community participation, especially of the women; to take 
charge of the health and nutrition needs of themselves and their families. Mahila Mandals have been
 
constituted at AWC level. They comprise of most active women of the operational area. These women
 
come together on a regular basis and assist the ICDS functionaries to provide services. They also facilitate 
dissemination of health messages among other members of the villages. In many areas, these groups have
 
formed 
community health funds
 through a monthly collection of contribution by members. In many
 
- 39 -
Page  43
villages, these groups have been empowered enough to monitor the coverage of services using social maps 
and other methods, and to ensure coverage of all health and nutrition services, not only by the AWWs, but 
also by the ANMs of their area. At present 11,924 Mahila Mandals have been constituted and are
 
functional. 
Andhra Pradesh
7.9
In Andhra Pradesh, Mothers Committees have been formed at AWC level, to promote a feeling of 
ownership of ICDS programme and generate demand for improving quality service and empower women. 
Each committee consists of 8 members whose children are availing services provided by ICDS.  In 351
 
blocks, 54,133 Mothers’ Committees have been formed. This has been trendsetter for second-generation
 
ICDS programming. The Mothers Committees have been delegated with the powers of monitoring ICDS
 
services including selection of Anganwadi workers and helpers. 8816 Anganwadi building works have been 
executed under the supervision and involvement of them.  They have now been recognized as agents of
 
change and proactive partners in the process of development. Training on capacity building in the areas of 
Health, Nutrition, AIDS, Growth Monitoring and Pre-school activities etc. have been imparted to all the
 
Mothers’ Committees. Similarly, adolescent girls’ activities have also been implemented on a large scale.
8.
Key Lessons Learnt
8.1
It may not be enough to have only manpower; more important is to provide training and inculcating 
sensitivity for the Project at all levels so that there is conceptual clarity of the Project objective among its 
functionaries.
8.2
Anganwadi Workers are the only visible Government functionary at the village level and therefore
 
their services are being extensively utilized for delivery of most of the Government Programmes. Thus,
 
there is need to have re-look at their roles and responsibilities, with changing times.
8.3
There is considerable
 
time lag between receipt of funds
 at the State Treasury and transfer of the
 
funds to the implementing agencies.  This is caused delay in executing the programme.  It is, therefore,
 
necessary to sensitize the Finance Department or creating a system in the state so that the time lag is
 
reduced.
8.4
Financial Management System (FMS)
 along with the requisite infrastructure has been found to be 
weak in some States.  As distinct from the FMS software, which has been recently developed, there appears 
to be lack of training and orientation of personnel in this regard.  Difficulties have been faced by the State 
Governments in filling up World Bank Project related forms and proformae.
8.5
There is a need for
 
continuity of incumbents
 in the Project Management Units in the States,
 
particularly at the higher levels.  This has affected implementation of the Project in some of the States.  As 
this is part of the overall functioning of the machinery, there is, therefore, a need to effectively
 
institutionalize the Project Management Units.  
8.6
Appointment of Supervisors in Bihar
 remained unsolved.  Out of a sanctioned strength of 1500,
 
only 361 have been filled which is affecting supervision and monitoring of the programme in the state. 
8.7
Vehicles provided to CDPOs for field visits
 are regularly requisitioned by the district
 
administration for other purposes.  This has affected supervision of the programme.
- 40 -
Page  44
8.8
The World Bank has not been able to finalize
 
the interim principles
 governing activities in the
 
Project States after closure of ICDS-II on September 30, 2002. With effect from 1.10.2002, the four
 
Project States of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Jharkhand are proposed to be included in
 
Women & Child Development Project till September 2004. Thus there is need for a clear-cut policy by the 
Bank to fund the regular as well as pending infrastructure and other activities/components of the erstwhile
 
ICDS-II States during the interregnum. 
8.9
In designing the ICDS-II Project
, the development objectives should have reflected the true nature 
of ICDS Programme in the country and should have captured its reality. ICDS is a multipurpose vehicle
 
with six objectives, (i.e. supplementary nutrition, immunization, health check-up, referral services,
 
pre-school non-formal education, and nutrition & health education), only one of which constitutes the thrust 
of the evaluation of the ICDS-II Project, 
viz
., ‘nutrition’. Further, given the presence of a readily available 
multi-purpose vehicle, many other social developmental tasks, are also assigned to Anganwadi Workers.  
Many of these actually further the objectives of ICDS. Because of this, convergence among nutrition,
 
health & education and social mobilization have been made possible. Therefore, a very narrow view of
 
ICDS does not do justice to the reality. 
8.10
ICDS-I Project was rated as ‘unsatisfactory’.  ICDS-II Project was formulated with the similar
 
development objectives as that of ICDS-I. Therefore, the question arises as to whether requisite precautions 
were taken to ensure that the later Project (ICDS-II) was designed realistically and implemented
 
satisfactorily. This has obviously not happened, as the same has also been rated as ‘unsatisfactory’.  Nor 
has this aspect been touched upon in the evaluation.  Therefore, the need for more thorough preparation and 
more realistic lead-time for fixing the Project launch and its effectiveness emerges. Apart from this, there is 
also a need for timely completion of benchmark surveys, viz., baseline and end line surveys. Also,
 
unsuitability of Project lending for a multipurpose vehicle like the ICDS, spreading across many States
 
with varying levels of development and Government capabilities emerges. Therefore, it is necessary to shift 
focus from ‘Project lending’ to ‘Programme lending’, to incorporate greater flexibility in design and
 
implementation, and to move from a “blueprint Project” to an “evolving Project”, so that resources can be
 
judiciously allocated in a way which provides incentives to the better performing States/activities. 
9.
Project Sustainability
9.1
Overall, the objective of the Project in the States has been achieved and, therefore, the broader
 
objective of strengthening the ICDS programme in the country/States needs to be sustained specially in
 
view of the committed policy of GOI to deepen ICDS in the country and as there are still some gray areas 
left, in which more attention/focus is warranted.  Some of them are linkages with
 
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan 
(universalization of elementary education), sustained training, sensitization of functionaries, cent percent
 
coverage of Women Groups, intensive campaign in awareness generation, further strengthening of
 
Adolescent Girls programmes, additional infrastructure etc. In other words, the Project could be continued 
in the States by correcting the imbalances faced during the implementation ICDS-II and on the basis of the 
key lessons learnt.
- 41 -
Page  45
Annex 1
Release of Funds and World Bank disbursement
[
Release & Expenditure: Rs. Crore; WB disbursement: US$ million]
Year
Items
Bihar
Chattisgarh
Jharkhand
Madhya Pradesh
Andhra Pradesh
Total
1992-93
Release
2.85
NA
NA
3.16
NA
6.01
1992-93
Expenditure
-
NA
NA
-
NA
-
1992-93
WB Disbursement
-
NA
NA
-
NA
-
1993-94
Release
14.29
NA
NA
8.75
NA
23.04
1993-94
Expenditure
-
NA
NA
1.17
NA
1.17
1993-94
WB Disbursement
-
NA
NA
-
NA
9.286
1994-95
Release
15.00
NA
NA
33.00
NA
48.00
1994-95
Expenditure
2.30
NA
NA
5.89
NA
8.19
1994-95
WB Disbursement
-
NA
NA
-
NA
1.067
1995-96
Release
12.00
NA
NA
28.51
NA
40.51
1995-96
Expenditure
10.58
NA
NA
14.83
NA
25.41
1995-96
WB Disbursement
-
NA
NA
-
NA
6.110
1996-97
Release
35.00
NA
NA
42.60
NA
77.60
1996-97
Expenditure
9.05
NA
NA
38.53
NA
47.58
1996-97
WB Disbursement
-
NA
NA
-
NA
9.463
1997-98
Release
35.00
NA
NA
92.53
NA
127.53
1997-98
Expenditure
17.82
NA
NA
73.18
NA
91.00
1997-98
WB Disbursement
-
NA
NA
-
NA
21.112
1998-99
Release
51.31
NA
NA
49.41
15.50
116.22
1998-99
Expenditure
69.16
NA
NA
83.18
-
152.34
1998-99
WB Disbursement
-
NA
NA
-
-
28.277
1999-2000
Release
39.36
NA
NA
34.87
98.24
172.47
1999-2000
Expenditure
57.67
NA
NA
58.20
-
115.87
1999-2000
WB Disbursement
-
NA
NA
-
-
17.847
2000-01
Release
-
-
-
47.12
20.00
67.12
2000-01
Expenditure
27.31
2.47
-
59.33
163.14
252.25
2000-01
WB Disbursement
-
-
-
-
-
46.170
2001-02
Release
10.00
6.00
4.00
60.00
50.00
130.00
2001-02
Expenditure
22.83
17.30
-
51.61
8.83
100.57
2001-02
WB Disbursement
-
-
-
-
-
32.93
2002-03
Release
40.00
30.00
10.00
59.58
38.00
177.98
2002-03
Expenditure
-
-
-
-
-
-
2002-03
WB Disbursement
-
-
-
-
-
-
Grand Total
Release
254.81
36.00
14.00
459.93
221.74
986.48
Grand Total
Expenditure
237.87
36.23
28.60
432.92
195.53
931.15
Grand Total
WB 
Disbursement
-
-
-
-
-
172.26
NA Not Applicable
- 42 -
Page  46
- 43 -
