CREDIT NUMBER 2470 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Integrated Child Development Services Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated Y   A      k'    3, 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2470 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  71AA4-              , 1993, between INDIA,
acting by its President, (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by the States of Bihar
and Madhya Pradesh with the assistance of the Borrower, and as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the States
of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date between the Association and the States of
Bihar and Madhya Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Anganwadi" means a village center for delivering the
services of ICDS;
(b)   "Bihar" means the Borrower's state of Bihar, or any
successor thereto;


﻿- 2 -
(c)   "First Integrated Child Development Services Prclject"
means the Integrated Child Development Services Project assisted by
the Association (Credit Number 2173-IN) and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (Loan Number 3253-IN);
(d)   "ICDS" means Integrated Child Development Services
Program, the Borrower's national program of child development;
(e)   "ICDS Plus" means the activities described in Part D of
the Project;
(f)   "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, which begins
on April 1 each year and ends on March 31 of the following year;
(g)   "Madhya Pradesh" means the Borrower's state of Madhya
Pradesh, or any successor thereto;
(h)   "Project Area" means such parts of Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh as are so designated by agreement between the Borrower, and
the Association;
(i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Bihar and Madhya Pradesh as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(j)   "Project State" means Bihar or Madhya Pradesh and
"Project States" means Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, collectively;
(k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(1)   "Strategies  For   Strengthening  ICDS   Among  Tribal
Populations" means an action program for strengthening delivery of
ICDS to tribal populations, agreed between the Borrower and the
Association for carrying out Part F of the Project; and
(m) "tribal block" shall include any block whose tribal
population constitutes over 50% of its total population, as well as
any block with an area covered under the tribal sub-plan of the
concerned Project State, located in the Project Area.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
forty-one million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
141,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project-,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The r-te set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the nex. date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specifi-d in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of ons percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 2003 and ending December 1, 2027. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on December 1, 2012 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿- 5 -
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this enO, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause
the Project States to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement all the respective obligations of the Project
States therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project
States to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to each Project State for such part of the Project as is
carried out respectively by that Project State, in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental assistance to
the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish a panel of advisors
of national repute in the fields of nutrition, maternal and child
health and the social sciences related to tribal affairs by
December 31, 1993, to assess annually the implementation of the
Project amongst tribal populations, and the Borrower shall discuss


﻿-6-
with the Association a report of the Committee containing such
assessment, as well as proposed steps arising therefrom.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Section 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out respectively by the Project States
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall participate in the carrying
out of the reviews of the Project referred to in paragraphs 4 and 7
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records      (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate   auditing


﻿-7-
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of
its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that any Project State will perform
its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and the Project State.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General Conditions:
(a)   each Project State has appointed consultants to assist
it in carrying out Part C of the Project; and
(b)   each Project State has complied with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by each Project State and is
legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director,
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                Telex:
ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in (ach Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works              18,200,000        90%
(2) Furniture,               27,400,000        100% of foreign
equipment,                                expenditures,
IEC materials,                            100% of local
vehicles and                              expenditures,
medicines                                 (ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local
expenditures
for other
items procured
locally
(3) Consultants'                               100%
services,
training,
publicity services,
services of NGOs
(a) Part G                 400,000
(b) Other               18,200,000


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Incremental               67,900,000        75% of local
operating                                  expenditures
costs
(5) Unallocated                9,500,000
TOTAL               141,600,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term   "incremental operating   costs" means   the
following additional costs incurred in carrying out the Project: (i)
salaries of additional staff; (ii) operation and maintenance of
additional vehicles and equipment; and (iii) additional office
supplies for ICDS.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals,
in   an  aggregate  amount   not  exceeding   the  equivalent   of
SDR 1,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after November 30, 1991.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to accelerate the pace of
improvement in the nutrition and health status of children under six
years of age, particularly those under three years of age, as well
as pregnant and nursing women, focussing on households with income
below the poverty line in the Project Areas in Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association from time to time:
Part A:     Delivery of ICDS
(1)   Improving Planning for Introduction of ICDS
Strengthening planning of implementation of ICDS by developing
and using Plans for the Introduction of Services covering the
introduction of ICDS to each block in which ICDS was not previously
provided, including mapping of such blocks to determine the number
and location of new Anganwadis in such blocks.
(2)   Expansion and Strengthening of Anganwadis
Establishment (including construction) and strengthening of
Anganwadi centers for existing and new ICDS blocks to provide for a
minimum population coverage of 75% within each block, as well as
strengthening district and block level ICDS offices and food storage
facilities in selected blocks.
(3)   Delivery of Supplementary Food
Improving the delivery of supplementary food under ICDS
through the provision of additional storage facilities at the block
and district level, simplification of the distribution system and
improved monitoring of food distribution.
(4)   Support for Pre-School Education
Strengthening pre-school education by the provision of initial
supplies as well as replenishments of educational materials for
Anganwadis; promotion of a more interactive approach to such


﻿- 14 -
education through appropriate training of Anganwadi workers; and
undertaking information, education and communication activities to
enhance awareness and capacity for a more stimulating environment at
home for pre-school children.
(5)   Improving ICDS Supervision
Improvement of ICDS supervision by strengthening in-service
training, improving mobility of supervisors; and providing an
additional supervisor per block with special responsibility for
organizing in-service training, communications and community
mobilization activities.
(6)   Improving Coordination between ICDS and Family Welfare Workers
Strengthening effective coordination between ICDS staff and
workers and Family Welfare staff and workers inter alia by enhanced
joint supervision of the two programs, informal joint training and
harmonization of formal training criteria.
(7)   Pharmaceuticals
Provision of additicnal medicines to health centers and sub-
centers to complement those provided under other programs of the
Borrower including the Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project.
(8)   Strengthening Operational Research
Strengthening operational research in areas such as improving
work routines of supervisors and workers in Anganwadis; testing
various options for therapeutic feeding of children with varying
nutrition status; and strategies for delivering ICDS to remote
tribal areas.
Part B:     Training
(1)   Staff Training
Provision of training for ICDS staff including orientation and
pre-service training for selected staff in ICDS blocks and annual
in-service training for all ICDS staff.


﻿- 15 -
(2)   Strengthening Training Institutions
Strengthening selected Anganwadi Training Centers by including
training of instructors of these Centers, curriculum review and
improved arrangements for field placement of irainees, as well as
the establishment in Bihar of an additional Middle Level Training
Center.
(3)   In-service Training
Strengthening in-service training of ICDS staff including by
establishing mobile training teams in each Project State with
specialist staff to be responsible for training supervisors who, in
turn, would train village level staff with the guidance of such
teams.
(4)   Support for Management and Development of Training
Curriculum preparation, review and development, material
development, training of instructors and planning and monitoring of
training activities through State level Project management cells.
Part C:     Communication
Carrying out an effective communication campaign to improve
household maternal and child feeding and child care practices, and
to increase use of ICDS services, by mothers of children under 6
years of age, adolescent girls and women, including the development
of an appropriate communication strategy, the creation of a sound
database, the use of creative skills to implement the strategy,
production of materials such as slides, posters, and audio tapes and
the selection of appropriate media and identification of target
groups.
Part D:     Community Mobilization and Women's Income-Generation
Schemes
Mobilizing the beneficiary community in implementing and
sustaining the Project including establishing and sustaining village
level women's groups, clearly identifying benefits of increased
awareness generation and community mobilization; involving non-
governmental   organizations   in   the   design,   planning   and
implementation of community mobilization activities; developing
models for popular participation in income generation, adolescent
girls' schemes and creche programs; and developing innovative


﻿- 16 -
approaches to integrating ICDS with other activities of women at the
village level.
Part E:     Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of support for Project management, monitoring and
evaluation including establishment and operation of state level
Project Management Cells, a regional directorate in Madhya Pradesh
with   responsibility   and   necessary   expertise  for   Project
implementation in tribal areas, and strengthening district level
management of ICDS by establishing district level offices in
selected districts; and strengthening of monitoring and evaluation
of   ICDS  programs   including  assistance  for   implementing
computerized progress reporting system including provision a-.
appropriate training for staff.
Part F:     Delivery of ICDS to Tribal Areas
Strengthening   delivery   of   ICDS  services   to   tribal
beneficiaries, particularly in scattered or remote areas.
Part G:     Preparation of Future Proiects
Preparation of future projects in the Borrower's child and
women's development sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $9,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower  shall  furnish  to   the  Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 18 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(i)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.


﻿- 19 -
(b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


