Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI USE ONLY
Report No. 10806
PROJECT (OMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1505-BEN/SF 024-BEN)
JUNE 30, 1992
Ac:iculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mas be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: CFAF 1/
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE
i984        US$1.00      =      CFAF 480
1985        US$1.u0      =      CFAF 378
1986        US$1.00      =         323
1987        US$1.00      =         267
1988        US$1.00      =         303
1989        US$1.00      =         289
1990        US$1.00      -         280
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PROJECT YEAR
October 1 - September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        African Development Bank
AID         Agency for International Development
CAA         Caisse autonome d'amortissement
CARDER       Centre d'action regional pour le developpement rural
(Regional Rural Development Agency)
DEFC         Direction des eaux, forets et chasses
(Department of Water, Forestry and Hunting)
DRA          Direction de recherche agronomique
(Department of Agricultural Research)
FAO-CP       Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations/
Cooperation Programme
FRG         Federal Republic of Germany
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GTZ         Geselischaft fur Technische Zusammerarbeit
IDA         International Development Association
KFW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDR          Ministere du developpement rural
(Ministry of Rural Development)
MESRS        Minist6re de l'enseignement superieur et de la recherche
scientifique
(Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research)
NRMP         Natural Resource Management Project
ONAB         Office national du bcis (State Wood Company)
PCR          Project Completion Report
SNAFOR       Soci6t6 nationale pour le developpement forestier
(National Forestry Development Company)
URF          Unit6 de recherche forestiere
1/    The parity of the CFAF with the French Franc is fixed at 50/1.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANKC
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ffice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on BENIN
Forestry Proiect (Cr. 1505-BEN/SF 024-BEN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on BENIN - Forestry Project (Cr. 1505-BEN;SF 024-BEN)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
2
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
(C1EDIT 1505-BEN/S- 024-BENI
msTBLE OF CONTENTS
PaneNo.
PREFACE ......................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   ........ ......  ................                                      iii
PARTI: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                               1....... 
A.   Project Identity   .................................                               1
B.   Background  .  ..................................                                  1
C.   Project Objectives and Description    .....................                        2
D.   Project Design and Organization  .......................                           3
E.   Project Implementation  .............................                              4
F.   Project Results  ..................................                                6
G.   Project Sustainability ....................                                        7
H.   Bank's Performance   ..............................                                8
I.   Borrower's Performance  ............................                              9
J.   Project Relationship   ..............................                            10
K.   Consulting Services  ..............................                               10
L.   Project Documentation and Data  ..........              .............             10
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                          11
PART mI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ......                          ..............           25
1.   Related Bank Credits  .............................                              25
2.   Project Timetable .............................                                  26
3.   Credit Disbursement  ..........................                                  27
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursemeit   ....            .......       27
B. SDR-US$ Exchange Rate  .......................*                              25
4.   Project Implementation  .         .............................                  29
5.   Project Costs and Financing  ..........................                          30
A. Project Costs  ................................                              30
B. Project Financing ..............................-                            31
_AP  -  IBI,  Mo. 1.7325
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLE 1'ON REPORT
BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1505-BEN/SF 024-BEN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Forestry Project,
for which Credit 1505-BEN and Special Fund 024-BEN in the amount of SDR 2.5
and 2.6 millions respectively were approved on June 21, 1984. Both the Credit
and the Special Fund closed in December 1990, six months behind schedule. The
Credit and Special Fund were fully disbursed in June 1991.
Parts I and III were prepared by a consultant and revised by staff of
the Agriculture Operations Division of the Occidental and Central Africa
Department. The Studies Unit of the implementing agency prapared Part II
before Parts I and III were prepared.
Preparation of the PCR was done about 12 months after the Credit was
closed. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Special
Fund Credit Agreement, the Development Credit Agreement, the GTZ Loan Agree-
ment, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank, the Borrower and
the implementing agency, internal Bank memoranda, reports prepared by the
implementing agency and disc'issions with representatives of the Borrower and
the Bank. A more exhaustive list of the documents consulted is given in
Annex 1.



- iii -
PgOJECI COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1505 - BEN) (SF 024 - BEN)
Evaluation Summary
Project Obiectives (Part I, para. 1.07)
1.         The principal objectives of the Project were (i) to reorganize and increase hth
technical capacity and the effectiveness of the Government's Water, Forestry and Hunting
Department (DEFC); and (ii) to execute an industrial plantation program.  The main
components were: the establishment of a permanent unit within DEFC responsible for
strategic planning and programming, and administration and control of sector finances; the
establishment and maintenance of a 3,800 ha teak sawlog plantation in the Lama Forest
Reserve; the establishment and maintenance of 410 ha of pilot plantations within Toui and
Lama Reserves; and the execution of studies.
Project Desion (Part I, para. 1.09)
2.         The project was well designed, based on good preparation work and close
coordination between the Bank, the Government, and bilateral and multilateral aid agencies,
already involved in the sector. Consistent with the identified weaknesses of local institutions,
the number of components was kept to a minimum, geographical coverage focused, the need
for interagency coordination virtually eliminated and physical implementation targets kept at
a realistic level.
3.          The project concept, however, displayed a number of shortcomings concerning
the design and provision of technical assistance, the annual work plans, the problem of illegal
settlers, monitoring and evaluation and the coordination of the management of the different
project components.
Imolemeittation Exoerience (Part I, para. 1.13)
4.          The Credit became effective eight months later than the originally planned date
while the original closing date was extended by six months. Technical assistance was put in
place in a timely fashion.
5.          Quality and effectiveness of implementation were good for the main (plantation)
component, and inadequate for most other components for reasons reviewed below.
6.          Procurement was done according to guidelines except for a minor problem in
the first year of implementation. Project costs were only 3% over CFA estimates and virtually
all funds were disbursed. The project as a whole faced no unusual risk, technical or otherwise
and this was reflected in the implementation experience.



- iv -
Results (°art I para. 1.21)
7           Project objectives were substantially acbieved for the plantation establishment
component with 3,203 out of 3,800 ha planted, an achievement rate of 84%. The shortfall
was caused by unpredictable technical and climatic factors. Control of the ' dma Forest
Reserve was successfully reinforced and further 3ncroachment stopped.
8.         Institutional strengthening of DEF C fell substantially short of the goals sought
because of the inadequate design of the institutional building component and the weakness
of the technical assistance provided. The research and training components failed to achieve
their objectives because of faulty design and, to an extent, an inadequate supervision effort.
Finally, the studies component was completely neglected.
9.          The main and probably only project impact is the preservation of the Lama
Forest Reserve and the establis-.mer.t of a first class teak plantation. The economic rate of
return is estimated to be close to the appraisal estimate, i.e. 14.3% vs 14.5% at appraisal.
This anialysis is based on the assumption that external support will continue (para 10).
Susta_Iabilitv (Part I para. 1.33)
10.         Given the commitment of the German Government to continue to support the
plantation progrartl, project sustainability is not an immediate issue. In the future, the threat
posed by the shortage of funds to maintain Government services should be mitigated by the
on-going structural adjustment program, as well as by the IDA-financed Agricultural Services
Restructuring Project, which aims at restructuring such services to eliminate wasteful
duplication, improve their efficiency and achieve significant cost savings.
11.        The performance of the Bank has been good throughout the project cycle.
However, it manifested a few shortcomings at the design (preparation and appraisal) and
supervision stages. The institution building and manpower training components could have
been better structured while supervision mission could have reacted faster and more forcefully
to identified or emerging problems. Finally, a better assessment should have been made of
the Government's capacity to meet its financial obligations under the project.
Borrower Performance (Part ! para. 1.40)
1 2.       The Government played mainly a rather passive role and failed to meet its
financial obligations.
Comments on Borrower's views (Part II)
13.        The project review from the Borrower's perspective (Part II of the PCR) was
written before Parts I and IlIl were drafted. In appraising the project's performance, the
Borrower underlines, among other things, the faulty design of the institution building and the
research components, the neglect of the studies component and the need for a second-phase
project.
14.        These views are for the most part relevant and correspond to many of the
points made in the Project Completion Report.



v 
Findings and lessons learned
1 5.        The major findings and lessons are the following:
(a)   When dealing with a situation where institutions are weak, project design should be
kept simple and the demand made on Government agencies limited to the extend
possibie. The success of the plantation component is a good illustration of this point;
(b)   Sub-contracting for the management of project components should be considered
when there is a local institution with relevant sxperience in the project sector. ONAB
was such an. institution and it is acknowledged that it contributed to the success of the
plantation establishment component;
(c)   Non-payment of sa!s, G ;p;'ements to project staff is fully accepted in the design of
projects in the I3ank now, including applying this principle to "cofinanced" funds. The
low motivation/performance of local DEFC staff was influenced by their working in
close proximity to local staff of ONAB. which were paid outside the restrictions of the
"Administration";
(d)   when designing institutional building components, clear objectives should be
established at the start with a well defined timetable to achieve them in term of
transferring certain skills, training programs, performance yardsticks for consultants
and handover of responsibilities. The fact that this was not the case in this project
may have greatly affected the outcome;
(e)   When projects are designed, every effort should be made to ensure that the financial
contribution expected from the Government is realistic and contingency plans should
be studied and put in place so that the project does not suffer frum the Government's
inability to pay. In this respect the forestry project was saved only by the willingness
of the German Government to provide funds on behalf of the Borrower;
(f)   In the forestry sector, the long gestation period it takes for any project to become
productive and the necessity to ensure adequate plantation management during that
period if the initial investments are not to be jeopardized, probably militate for the need
to consider projects not individually or as stand alone, but within the framework of
successive phases; and
(g)   The project led to a broader reflection on the rational management of natural
resources. The policy dialogue between the Government and donors regarding a
rational approach to environmental problems and the conservation of natural resources
has evolved since the Forestry Project. The recently approved IDA-financed Natural
Resource Management Project (NRMP) has a comprehensive approach involving the
rural population and other private operators. The NRMP follows the strategy of
reducing State involvement in the production and marketing process in favor of a more
decentralized and participatory approach, which involves the local population iii the
management of natural resources.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1505 - BEN and SF 024 - BEN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANKWS PERSPECTIVE
A.   PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name           Forestry Project
Credit Number    :      1 505-BEN and SF-024-GEN
RVP Unit         :    Africa Regional Office
Country                Republic of Benin
Section                Agriculture
Subsector        :    Forestry
B.   BACKGROUND
1.01       Benin has a land area of about 1 13,000 Km2. Its population was estimated at
4.6 million in 1989, and increasing at an average annual rate of about 3.2%. With an
estimated annual income per capita of US$380 in 1989, Benin remains one of the poorest
nations in the world. At project appraisal, Benin was self-sufficient in food and generating
considerable foreign exchange earnings from the export of cotton, oil palm products and
groundnuts. Agriculture was the most important sector of the economy, employing 74% of
the active population and providing 45% of GDP and 55% of the country's foreign exchange.
1.02       The Government's first three-year development plan (1978-80) aimed to raise
agricultural productivity, to improve the standard of livinqg, strengthen economic policies and
implement economic and social change. The second economic and development plan again
gave priority to the improvement of agricultural productivity and the expansion of cultivated
land for both food and export crops. The attainment of these objectives was jeopardized in
part by an explosive population growth leading to an over-exploitation of the arable land and
a gradual disorderly deforestation. This represented a threat to the ecological balance.
1.03       Gazetted forests as well as parks in the savannah region were being threatened
by a gradual encroachment by farmers, poachers and bush fires with disastrous consequences
for the fertility of the soils and their capacity to regenerate tree cover. At the same time, the
growing need for fuelwood was accelerating deforestation, especially around towns, and
causing incipient desertification.
1.04       The Government objectives in the forestry sub-sector were: (i) to protect the
remaining natural forests from over-exploitation, encroachment and bush fires; (ii) to develop
a sustained supply of fuelwood, building poies, wood and other wood products for Doth rural
and urban populations; and (iii) overall, to manage the forest resources on the basis of sound
environmental practices.



1.05        The policy and strategy pu;rsued by the Government to achieve the above
objectives have been to: (i) strengthen the institutions responsible for the planning and
implementation of the forest y activities: (ii) establish fast growing tree plantations that can
be managed or a rational basis: (iii) encourage the participation of rural populations in
reforestation; and (iv) promote research and projectz in ways of improving forestry technical
packages and efficient wood uses. Throughout, the Government has actively sought and
obtained the assistance of both mult;lateral and bilateral dcnars and, to an extend, has
fostered greater regiona: cooperation.
1.06        The project as appraised and negotiated  was ciearly consistent with the
Government's policy and priorities described above and its design was in tune with most
views of the donor community on the types of activities to be supported.
C.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.07        Proiegt Obiectives. The project had two principal objectives:
(a)   to reorganize and increase the technical capacity of the Government's Water,
Forestry and Hunting Department (DEFC), to increase its effectiveness in (i)
collection and use of based information for the formulation of an appropriate
forestry strategy, (ii) planning, coordinating and executing programs to
implement the strategy, and (iii) design and administration of fiscal measures
influencing the forestry sector; and
(b)   to execute an industrial plantation program to reduce future dependence on
imported timber, and generate revenues for further forestry development.
1 .08       Proiect Description. To achieve these objectives, the project had the follo'wing
components:
(a)   the establishment of a permanent unit within the Project's executing agency
(DEFC), responsible for strategic planning and programming, and administration
and control of sectoral finances, with material, logistical and technical support;
(b)   the establishment anc maintenance of a 3,800 ha plantation of species
(principally teak) suitable for sewlog production in the Lama Forest Reserve;
(c)   the establishment and maii;.enance of 410 ha of pilot plantations within Toui
and Lama Reserves to test improved species and sources of seed,
establishmeni and maintenance techniques and charcoaling methods;
(d)   the execution of studies in support of the formulation of a forestry strategy,
improved plantation establishment, preparation of possible future forestry
development projects, and a mid-term review of the project's execution; and
(e)   tra;ning of selected local personnel through arrangements made by the Federal
Republic of Germany.



-3-
D.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.09        The project design was doveloped and evolved through close coo4dination
betwcen the Bank, the Government and other multilateral and bilateral agancies afready active
in the fcrestry sub-sector in Benin. The resulting conceptual foundation for the project was
basically proven, appropriate and clear and reflected the uons-aints and opportunities
identifi3ble in the country.  Thu number of components was limited and the required
interagency coordination for their effective implementation was kept to a minimum. Their
implementation sub-contracted to agencies other than DEFC, which was consistent with the
weakness of local institutions. The geographical coverage of the project was focused, the
proyrammed physical implementation targets oG the project were kept tc a realistic leval; and
the experience of the German Forestry Assistance Program and a solid~ Woca institution (ONAB)
were properly used to implement the major project component.
1.10        It should be underlined however that there were a number of shortcomings to
the project as designed. EiW, despite the realization that Government forestry services were
weak and needed strengthening, IDA-financed project assistance to DEFC was defined
.arrowly and limited to the provision of two expatriate technical assistants. No tra.ning
program, an essential part of any institution building effort, was conceived nor funds ptovided
for it. All training activities were specifically limited to the German-sponsored and managed
plantation establishment antivities. As could be expected, training was provided by the
German Forestry Assistance Program to some ONAB staff directly involved in the plantation
program. It is not clear that DEFC is more capable of its m.ssion now than before the project.
econd, the new advisory/policy unit created within DEFC in fact duplicated the Tunctions of
an already existing "Service Etudes et Documentation" (Studies and Documentation Unit) and
no effort seems to have been made to either merge or coordinate the two units which tried
to do the same things separately. Third, the concept of annual work plans included in the
project and legal documents was not properly explained to all relevant parties as an important
planning a!d management tool. As a result, it was seldom used and this may have led to an
unbalanced implementation of project components. Fourth, although the problem of illegal
settlers and farmers in the Lame forest reserve was recognized early on in the project cycle,
it was not sufficiently investigated and the resulting project design included no specific or
coherent program to deal with this sensitive issue. It was and is still being addressed through
the foresight and thoroughness of the German bilateral as. stance program. It must be
mentioned, however, that Bank staff authorized the use of !', funds to help meet the costs
of resettlement operations of these farmers during early project implementation. Fifth, the
relevanco of monitoring and evaluation was nct properly integrated into the project concept.
And sixth, although the roles and r6 e   -isibilities of the institutions and agencies (ONAB, DRA
and DEFC) responsible for the project were clearly defined, the structure put in place did not
realistically take into account the relative bargaining powers of these institutions and agencies.
As a result, project implementation was too heavily dependent on ONAB because of the
entrenched power base of the German bilateral technical assistance, wh,le DEFC and DRA
played only minor roles, well below the objectives envisaged at appraisal.
1.11        The project was well prepared by an FAO/CP mission assisted b7 the German
Forestry Mission in Benin. Its tirning and scope were appropriate. Its implementation was
planned to be synchronized and consistent with the beginning of the third phase of the
German forestry assistance program to Benin.



-4-
1.1 2       As stated above (para. 1 . 1 0), the roles and responsib,lities assigned to diffurent
institutions and agencies did not rroperly reflect their relative strengths. The success of the
project can be attributed mainly to its plantation p:ogram because of the strong assistance
to ONAB from the German Forestry Mission in Benin. However, this strong input also
contributed to weakening the implernentatiQn of other project components such as the
reinforcement of DEFC and resaarch aciivities.
E.    Proiect Imrlementation
1.13        Credit Effeiveness and Prgct Start-up. The project was appraised in March
1983. Thn Credit was approved in June 1984 and became effective in July 1985, about eight
months after the planned date. The original closing date of June was postponed to December
1990.  Despite the aelay in project effectiveness. the plantation establishment program
substantially mret its target due in part to the postponement of the Credit closing date. However
the institution building, manpower development and research ac.;vities were not well carried out.
1.14        The following factors were principally responsible for the difference in the
implementation result, between cormponents: (i) the design of each individual component; (ii)
the quality of technical assistance provided for the execution of each component; (iii) the
avail,ability of funds for the implementation of each component; and (iv) the nature of the
supervision effort provided. The shorccomings in project dssign were reviewed earlier (para
1.10). The quality of technical assistance was superior for the establishment of the teak
plantation with ONAB, but poor for the policy formulation planning and coordination activities
of DEFC and not even provided for the research activities. The implementation of some
compon6nts (training, studies and research, institution building) was negatively affected by
either thB institutional weakness of the units responsible for their implementation, insufficient
allocation of funds or overspending by other components.  Finally, the supervision
concentrated its efforts mainly o0. the plantation component and was somawhat less insistent
on the oti er components.
1.1 5       A more effective use of annual work plans and budgets as a management and
resource allocaton tool could have introduced more balance between project components.
A more forceful intervention by the Bank supervision missions early on after the realizatior'
that the key technical assistant with DEFC was not performing well would have led to his
replacement and probahly salvaged that important component.
1.1 6       Implementation Schedule.  Despite the early implementation delay, the
plantation program was basically on schedule. However the start of rcsearch activities was
delayed for about two years because the research unit could neither propose an acceptable
annual research prograrm nor submit a budget. The technical assistai..._. were hired on
schedule to reinforce DEFC, but only the financial controller made a worthwhile contribution.
Studies were not carried out because apparently viable proposals were not presented.
1.1 7       Procureinent.  Except for an early problem  of incorrect procedure for the
selection of a contractor for civil works (1 935;, all procurement matters appear to have been
handled correctly.



- 5.-
1.18        Prgiect Cot. Pro,ect estimated costs were CFAF 4,521 million net of taxes
and 5,081 including taxes (US$ 11.6 and 13.0 millions equivalent respectively). Total costs
from audi.ed financial statements have been put at CFAF 4,640 million before taxes,
representing an increase of less than 3% over original CFA estimates. The minor overrun
resulted from an increase in local costs because of a small increase in project scope.
1.19        Disburse ants and Credit Allocation. Disbursements are provided in Part lI,
Section 3. The last disbursement was made on November 13, 1991 for Cr. 1 505-BEN and
on July 25, 1991 for St 024, with cancc""ntions of SDR 5,521.18 and SDR 861.74
respectively. As detailed in Part ll, Section 5-B, analysis of disbLursements compared to the
original allocations by category reveals the following.
Disbursement Allocation
Percentage of
Percentage         Percentage        Expenditures
Cateaorv          Underdisbursed     Overdisbursed         Financed
1.    Vehicles and              79                                   100
Equipment                                                                l
2.    DEFC operating                              510                 78
costs
3.    Forestry                                     41                 78
Plantation
4.    Research                  37                                    78
5.    Consultants                                  13                100
(DEFC only)                                        __       _
The establishment of the teak plantation represented the highest amount in both absolute
terms (SDR 2.6 million) and relative terms (52%) of total IDA financing. It also had the
highest absolute overrun (SDR 1.1 million) and the second highest relative overshoot (41 %).
One figure that stdnds out is the high overrun of DEFC operating costs (510%).
1.20        Risks.  At appraisal no major technical risks were identified.  Fire was
considered a normal risk that could be well contained by appropriate management. Another
risk element was the uprooting of trees by winds. The use of seeds in poly bags first reduced
and then eliminated this latter risk at the early stage of plantation development. Proper future
thinnings was to be another effective measure against such a risk.



-6-
F.    Project Results
1.21        Proiect objectives were substantially achieved for the plantation establishment
component. As explained below, however, results for the other components were mixed and
unsatisfactory in a number of cases.
1.22        Establishment of olantations. A total of 3,203 ha were newly planted with teak
agairist the 3,300 planned at appraisal, or 84%. The shortfall was caused by the delay in the
start of project implementation and by technical and climatic difficulties. Unusually heavy
rains limited or slowed dowrn soil preparation activities and forced the project to revise target
areas to be planted from 1 ,000 to about 800 ha per year over the last three project years.
Further, soil conditions caused a high loss rate of newly planted trees during the first season
when stumps were used. This led to the use of imported seeds from Tanzania which proved
far more effective (17% loss factor against 35% for stumps).
1.23        Plantation infrastructure. The project built 1 5 km of access roads, 35 km of
plantation tracks and 18 km of fire protection tracks, against 15, 38 and 20 planned at
appraisal. In addition, about 1 38 km of tracks were maintained. Two hundred family houses
and two schools were built to help resettle farmers whereas nothing had been planned at
appraisal. About 40 small bridges, two houses, one guest house, one borehole and water
reservoir were also built.
1.24        Forest Reserve Control. Interpretations of pic.ures by SPOT satellite between
1 983 and 1 987 indicate that about 750 ha of the Lama Forest Reserve were lost each year
to farmers. After the project reinforced its control activities, satellita pictures indicate that
no new forest encroachrnent has taken place since 1 988, attesting to the successful efforts
under the project.
1.25        Reinforcement of the DEFC. DEFC was .o be strengthened with the provision
of (i) a forestry expert to head a newly formed Advisory/Policy Unit and (ii) a financial
controller. The forestry expert recruited proved to be not well suited for the job. First
because he was not fluent in French, a stated prerequisite for the job, and second because
he did not fit well within DEFC. As a result, key functions that were to be established within
DEFC did not materialize: no monitoring and evaluation system was devised, no annual work
plans and budgets were prepared except for the first year, as this was a condition of first
disbursement, no first steps were taken toward the elaboration of a forestry strategy and no
training program was conceived or carried out. The financial controller fared better but also
displayed shortcomings which made his mission less than satisfactory in some important
respects: no cost accounting system was installed; accounting management was not
computerized; annual work plans and budgets were not prepared; and no proposals were
prepared for the establishment of a forestry fund.
1.26        Research. The research program started about two years late and was neither
consistent nor well formulated. In addition, the late start and failuire to properly manage the
resource allocation system through annual work plans resulted in research funds being
diverted to other components. Out of a total research allocation of about CFAF 273 million,
only CFAF 123 million or 45% were used for research purposes over the life of the project.



-7-
1.27        A total of 410 ha of pilot plantations were planned to be established for
research purposes. Only 100 ha were actually established. It is not clear that relevant
research themes were defined or worked on.
1.28        Training.  About 10 man-years of overseas training of selected ONAB staff
were to be financed during the project implementation period. Less than one man year of
training was actually carried out, for Or4AB staff. No provisions were made for training of
DEFC staff.
1.29        Studies. The programmed studies in support of the formulation of a forestry
strategy, improved plantation establishment, preparation of further forestry development
projects, and the mid-term review of the project's execution, were not carried out. The funds,
originally assigned for studies, were diverted to other components.
1.30        Project Imoact. The project has had a major impact cn the preservation of the
Lama Forestry Reserve. It has established a first class teak plantation. It has had also an
impact on institutional development of ONAB staff, through the training of personnel in the
techniques of forestry establishment and management. Over the long term and assuming the
plantations created are properly managed, the project should have a positive impact on the
supply of poles, sawnwood and, to a more limited extent, fuelwood.
1.31        On a different level, through its farmers' resettlement program, the project is
experimenting with small scale farming technical packages that might prove replicable in other
parts of the country.
1.32        The project economic rate of return is now estimated at 14.3%, compared with
14.5% at appraisal.
G.   Proiect Sustainability
1.33        Given the commitment of the German Government to continue with the
financing of the plantation establishment and maintenance program for the foreseeable future,
project sustainability is not an immediate issue for that component. It is probable that in the
absence of a follow on project, the financial problems that the Government is experiencing
would have seriously compromised the sustainability of normal plantation management
activities if the German assistance was not available. Without further external support most
probable, the economic rate of return would be reduced substantially. Until the plantation
reaches a certain age and thinnings can. become a stable source of cash flow, the ever present
problem of inadequate funds availability could hamper normal plantation management if and
when the Germans leave. It is expected, however, that in the future, the threat posed by the
shortage of funds to maintain Government Services should be mitigated by the on-going
structural adjustment program, as well as by the IDA-financed Agricultural Services
Restructuring Project, which aims at restructuring such services to eliminate wasteful
duplication, improve their efficiency and achieve significant cost savings.
1.34        Plantation maintenance costs are currently estimated at CFAF 1 3,000/ha per
year, for a total of CFAF 42 millions per year for the 3200 ha planted so far at Lama. Road



- 8 -
maintenance cost is estimated at CFAF 250,000 per km or a total of CFAF 1 7 millions per
annum.
H.   Bank's Performance
1.35        Proiect Preparation. Project identification and preparation were properly handled
with the required amount of coordination between the Bank and other donors involved in the
forestry sub-sector so as to l,mit the interagency coordination demands made on the thin
Government institutional capability. This approach did tend to maximize the effectiveness of
limited Government manpower. However, sufficient attention may not have been paid to the
financial resources of the Government and its capacity to meet its required contribution to the
project under different scenarios. This represented a serious potential setback for the project
which was avoided only because KFW agreed to finance the Government's contribution.
1.36        Proiect a2praisal. The appraisal was well conducted. Physical implementation
targets were realistic. However, the project organizational structure did not give due
consideration to the leverage that the German Forestry Mlission had on DEFC, the Project
Coordination Unit. DEFC was unable to get the required cooperation from ONAB in the
submission of annual work plans and budgets precisely because they were powerless.
Likewise, the institution building program for DEFC was too narrowly focused on the simple
provision of two technical assistants without a defined manpower training program (both in-
service and external), and without a proper monitoring system. Finally, a realistic assessment
was not made of the capacity of the forestry research unit to carry out meaningful research
without a proper link to a well-established research institution for back-stopping and overall
guidance.
1.37        Project Supervision.   Over a six-year period, from September 1984 to
December 1990, the Credit closing date, t, ere were only nine supervision missions. Three
missions were led by an economist and six by an agriculturalist.  A financial analyst
participated in the last three of these missions and a forester (consultant) in only one mission,
the sixth one. On three occasions a supervision mission did not take place for at least a year.
The co-financing agency had six missions, with or without Bank staff.
1.38        Overa;', the Supervision missions from the Abidjan Resident Mission followed
the project closely and raised the right issues, from inadequate technical support to DEFC to
financial problems. One issue that was flagged from the third supervision mission on, was
that of the development impact of the project. However, there was no clear definition of the
problem and no forceful action was taken or recommended. First, the inadequate performance
of the key policy advisor in DEFC was left to last until the end of the technical assistance
contract, at which time, it was finally frankly admitted as inadequate. Second, the whole
question of the lack of preparation of annual work plans and budgets was not raised except
at the beginning of project implementation. Likewise the mid-term review was not carried out.
Third, the weakness of the research effort was apparent from the start but no measures were
taken either to seek professional advice on research or to encourage the research unit to be
more diligent. Fourth, the lack of coordination between the German Forestry Mission at ONAB
and DEFC was clearly perceived et the beginning but not dealt with. Eiftb, the lack of
emphasis on institutional development and on the development of a program of studies to be



- 9 -
carried out under the project, was not addressed. And liAb, the absence of a monitoring and
evaluation system was not properly acknowledged or remedied. !n tniis respect, not much
seems to be known about the growth characteristics of the teak plantation so far. Urgent
work is needed in this area if reliable production tables are to be prepared in the future.
1.39        The supervision missions did a good job on following activities on the
establishment of the teak plantation at the Lama Reserve, including the hiring of a consultant
when necessary to review the question of stump versus seed planting. However, it can be
argued that this was precisely the component that probably required the least attention
because of the strong bilateral technical assistance provided to ONAB.
I.    Borrower's Performance
1.40        The Borrower's performance was to a great extent conditioned by the project
management structure that was put in place. Most project activities were not within the
immedia.e control of the Borrower as represented by DEFC, the central Project Coordination
Unit as they were sub-contracted to various executing agencies. Even the reinforcement of
DEFC was largely made the responsibility of the two-man technical assistance team. As a
result, the role of DEFC was mostly a passive one as it tended to avoid interfering with the
performance of those responsible for specific components.
1.41        Ironically, the reluctance, or the inability of DEFC to intervene directly in the
teak plantation establishment component at Lama may have contributed to its satisfactory
implementation. However, the same passivity displayed with respect to other components
prevented the project from having a balanced implementation. More specifically, DEFC failed
to make ONAB and the forestry research unit live up to some of the terms of the contracts
they signed: no annual work plans were submitted, and no regular reporting done. Likewise,
the key technical assistant in the Policy and Advisory Unit was not made to perform up to
standards. To that extent, both DEFC and the Government at large failed to perform their
supervisory functions.
1.42        During project preparation, the Government collaborated fully with all the
donors. After Credit signing, sufficient diligence was exerted by the Government to avoid a
long delay before effectiveness. However, the Government was unable to provide counterpart
funds on a regular basis, and KFW had to assume this responsibility on its behalf.
1.43        The main lessons for the Borrower are in three broad areas: groiect finance;
institution building and accountabilitv. When projects are designed, every effort should be
made to ensure that counterpart funds to be provided by the Government are realistic and can
be provided. Contingency plans should be studied so that the project does not suffer from
the Government's inability to pay. As far as institution building is concerned, clear objectives
should be established at the start with a well-defined timetable to achieve them in terms of
transferring certain skills, training programs, performance yardsticks for consultants and
handover of responsibilities from technical assistance to local staff. Finally, since a heavy
emphasis was placed on the role uf technical assistants in DEFC, its national staff may have
felt not liable to be held accountable for unsatisfactory results. A way should be found to
ensure the performance of both local staff and technical assistants.



-10-
J.    Project Relationship
1.44        The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was good.  The
relationship between the Bank and the cofinancier was equally good.  However, the
relationship between the project coordination unit, DEFC and the field unit of the cofinancier
providing assistance to ONAB for the Lama plantation component was sometime strained and
the flow of information was not adequate.
K.   Consulting Services
1.45        Few short-term consultants were used by the project. The forestry consultant
used by the Bank in one supervision mission did an excellent job. The German Forestry
Mission used consultants for six different missions.  Five of them made an excellent
contribution to the project. All these consultants were used for the plantation at Lama.
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data
1.46        All project documents (legal agreements, staff appraisal report) were
comprehensive and provided a useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower during project
implementation. They also provided sufficient flexibility to project management to allow them
to adapt to certain field conditions as they evolved.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIfE
I.          INTRODUCTION
Benin's development policy emphasizes the satisfaction of the basic
needs of the population as well as the long-lasting management of natural
resources.    The  end  goal  is  to  achieve  a  long-lasting  and  sustainable
development.
Within the framework of the forestry sector development in Benin,
many programs have been developed and implemented, including the one called
"Forestry Development Project".
This project has been jointly funided by the World Bank (IDA), the
Federal Republic of Germany, and the Republic of Benin. The project started in
May 1985 with the setting up of the technical assistance and was due to end by
June 1990.   But it hau to be extended up to December 1990 due to certain
difficulties which arose during the implementation resulting in the freezing of
a large part of the project funds in local banks.
This report is three-fold:
- the sunmary and recommendations;
- the main report; and
- the attachments.
II -        THE COUNTRY
2.1.        GENERALITIES
Benin Republic is located in the Gulf of Guinea in We3t Africa. With
a total land area of 112,600 square kilometers, it extends on about 640 km to the
north. It's width from East to West is 350 km in the North and 110 km in the
South.
Benin's population is estimated at around 4.4 million inhabitants
with an increase rate of 3.5 %. The population is unevenly spread: density is
between 188 inhabitants/km2 in the South and 14 inhabitants/km2 in the North.
The country can be divided into three main climatic zones:
- the South, characterized by a sub-equatorial climate with a bi-
nominal rainfall: 850-1,400    of rain per year and decreasing from East to West.
- the Center, characterized by a sudano-guinean climate: 1,100-1,400
mm of rain per year and a distinct dry season of four to flve months.
- the North, characterized by sudano-sahelian climate: 800-1,100 mm
of rain and a six months dry season pet year. The rainfall is quite unimodal
reaching its peak in August.
Soils are relatively more fertile and deeper in the South due to
their hydromorphic  nature.   The zone extending to the North  is made of
ferruginous tropical soils with swamps at some places.
Tree coverage consists of few remains of semi-deciduous forest in the
south, of dry forests and forest galleries in the center. In addition to these,
there are large mixed forests changing from the open wood type to  bus.  %vannah
as one moves to the extreme north. Open forests cover about 65% of the turritory
including about 9% of open wood and bush savannah. This seems rather a paradox
given the geographic location of the country but is explained mainly by the
prevailinR climatic conditions.



- 12 -
In addition to these natural forests, there are old plantations
dating from 1950 to 1960 (about 7,500 ha of teak) and 1966 to 1970 (5,400 ha of
anacardia, 1,900 ha of filaos and acacia). Some palm trees and coconut trees
have also been planted.
Besides, with two large national reserves (7,700 ha) including the
Pendjari rich in wildlife and three hunting zones (5,800 ha), Benin is among the
west african countries with the most important wildlife resources.
Agriculture utilizes about 75% of the active population and
contributes to 40% of the GDP whilst the industry sector counts for 12% of the
GDP.   As for the trade sector, it is dominated by a dynamic informal trade.
2.2.        FORESTRY POLICY AND STRATEGY
The objectives of the current forestry policy are to assure that the
populations are provided with forest products through a better management of
forest resources with a view to protecting the environment. To implement such
policy, the government initiated reforestation projects both at the central level
in gazetted forests and at the rural level in form of village plantations. Some
of these projects, intended to reduce the abusive exploitation of natural
resources, are:
- promoting rural forestry the "Forestry Resources Development"
project;
- renewal of the Lama teak plantation (about 6,000 ha) which dates
back from 1950 to 1968;
- creation of 3,500 ha state plantations and 2,500 rural plantations
through the "South Benin Fuelwood plantation " project; and
- the creation of village plantations in the Borgou and Atacora
provinces and the "Multi-Purpose Trees Plantation" project.
These projects have been followed by others not initially aimed at
tree plant_.ng. It is the case, for example, of the "National Parks Development"
and  "Watershed Development and Bushfire Prevention" projects.  This policy,
however has some limitations as will be shown in this report.



- 13 _
III  -      THE PROJECT
3.1.        BACKGROUND AND LOCATION
Although the government has initiated many reforestation programs,
it has not been abli to provide the Water, Forest and Hunting Department, in
charge of the long-term management of such projects, with the necessary means.
Neither has the government been able to improve the management and control of
forest resources. It is an evidence that Benin's forest development strategy is
not well grounded.
Therefore, a new start up is necessary in order to develop an
adequate national forestry policy and to provide the means for its
implementation. This approach will necessarily start with pilot projects.
This explain. why the government of Benin has requested the support
of international organizations for the development and funding of the "Forestry
Projoct" which will later be referred to as the "Forestry Development Project,"
in documents.
The project was identified by a World Bank mission to Benin in
November 1981, based on a UNDP/FAO report and another report produced in 1979 by
a team of forestry experts from the Federal Republic of Germany.
The project development was carried out by a World Bank/FAO
cooperation program team which came to Benin in October 1982 and wrote the CP-BEN
Report No.5/83. Document No. 128.904 (2).
The project evaluation, based on that report, was carried out by an
IDA team which worked in Benin in March 1983 and composed of Messrs Robert
Fishwick and Robert Crown, Mrs. Rapeepun Jaissard, and Mr. Wolfgang Hannover
(consultant).
This evaluation report will become project paper (prodoc) No. 4687-
BEN of May 29, 1984, the official draft for the five-year project, July 1984 to
June 1989. For ease of procedure, a project year will be from July 1 of a civil
year to June 30 of the following one.
According to this document, the project includes plantations to be
created in two ecologically distinct zones: the Lama forest in the South and the
Toui forest In the Center-North of the country (see map).
3.2.        OBJECTIVES
3.2.1.      Overall obiectives
Civen the increasing degradation of forest resources and the
increasing needs of the population in wood products, the supply of these products
in sufficient quantity and at reasonable cost was among the government
priorities. The implementation of such policy necessitates the creation of new
supply sources on the one hand and the _trengthening of forest resources
management structures on the other.
In this context and according to the appraisal report, the project:
a) will improve the capacities of the DEFC, responsible for the
management o;¢ natural forest resources and plantations in Benin, and will provide
the necessary means for data collection and analysis in order to develop an
appropriate forestry strategy;
b) will execute a plantation program to supplemnnt those already
funded, in order to improve long term domestic wood supply and to reduce Benin's
future dependance on imported timber.



- 14 -
3.2.2.      Specific oblectives
More specifically, the project which aims at increasing domestic wood
supply and improving the technical and financial management capacities in the
forestry sector, will involve the following:
a) reinforcing the DEFC by setting up a unit for general policy and
advice;
b) establishment and maintenance of a 3,80C ha teak plantation in
the Lama gazetted forest;
c) establishment of about 410 ha pilot plantations in the Lama and
Toui gazetted forests;
d) scholarships and training for the fwrestry personnel; ana
e) execution of studies for the .ormulation of forestry development
strategy, mid-term assessment of ongoing activities in the forestry sector, and
preparation of future forestry development project.
The reinforcement of the DEFC consists of equipment, material, and
technical support in order to establish therein, a permanent Information and
Orientation Service, responsible for the strategic planning and programming and
the management and control of sector finances. The 3,800 ha (principally teak)
plantation in the Lama  forest will be completed over the five years of the
project, as shown in table No.1:
TABLE NO.1: CLEARING, PLANTING, AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (IN HAs)
CIVIL YEARS 1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88      1988/89
Project year          1            2            3           4            5
Clearing &           200           600       1,000         1,000        1,000
Preparation
Planting             200           600       1,000         1,000        3,800
Maintenance          200           800       1,800         2,800
Source: Report No. 4687-BEN of May 29, 1984
This program additionally includes the construction of buildings and
laterite roads (access and boundary -oads) in the Lama forest, the construction
of an office and a workshop-warehouse at Saclo.
As for the pilot plantations, they provided the opportunity to test
some improved species and foreign breeds, some planting and maintenance
techniques, and some charcoaling techniques for charcoal production. The project
document does not contain a chronogram with quantified objectives for these
activities.
IV.         PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1.        INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
The project is managed for the government by the Water, Forest and
Hunting Department of the Ministry for Rural Development. The Water, Forest and



- 15 -
Hunting Director is directly responsible for the overail i.plementation and
management of tMe project.
The project is run by a national Director assisted by a forestry
expert and an accounting expert who is the controller.
To attain the objectives, the project was divided into three parts
A, B, and C as follows:
Part A: "Reinforcement of the DEFC." This concerns the institutional
strengthening rientioned earlier among the objectives.
Part B: "Reforestation of the Lama," whereby the 3,800 ha plantation
will be established.
Part C: "Pilot Plantations" or "Research aspect."
Based on paragraph 4.01 of the evaluation report, some of the
projects parts were contracted to external structures.
Thus, part B "Reforestation of the Lama" was carried out by thA
national wood company ONAB, under contract No. 002/EFC/PDF ot August 2, 1985
between the DEFC and ONAB.
Part C "Researc'h" was contracted to the Forestry Research Unit (UR')
at the Agricultural Research Department (DRA). According to these contracts:
- the DEFC iH responsible for the funding and control of all
activities,
- ONAB and URF/DRA are, within their respective competences, in
charge of the physical implementation of activities.   Therefore, each of these
contractors must submit to the DEFC, their plannings on the one hand and their
progress reports on the other hand, according to a calendar well defined in the
contracts.
Part A "Reinforcement of the DEFC" was carried out by the DEFC
directly, acting through a team including the project Director and technical
assistants.
4.2.         PROJECT COST AND FUNDING
The project I was estimaced for a global cost of F CFA 5,Gd1 million
with taxes and F CFA 4,529 million tax free. This includes an AID credit (No.
1505-BEN), an AID Special Fund credit (No. SF-24-BEN), a contribution from the
Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), and Benin's own contribution.
The contribution from the Federal Republic of Germany consisted of
a KfW loan and a GTZ grant.
Table No.2 is a summary of the financing plan, as shown in the
appraisal report:
X     Costs were estimated at  FCFA 392 to 1 U.S.Dollar, which
was the official exchange rate at the time of negotiations in
November 1983.



- 16 -
TABLE No.2 : Financing Plan by source.
(F CFA millions)
Funding            Cost (tax free)   %       Coot (tax incl.)  %
source
IDA                1,038              23           1,038               20
FS/IDA             1,080              24           1,080               21
GFR                1,564              43           1,964               39
BENIN               447               10            999                20
TOTAL              4,529             100           5,081              100
The distribution of costa across the project components is an
follows:
-Strengthening DEFC ................ F CPA Million   543
-Lama Reforestation ............... F CFA Million 4,214
-Pilot Plantations ................. F CFA Million   324
TOTAL                                 F CFA Million 5,081
The draft financing plan presented by the report is in
Attachment 2 to this report.
IDA, IDA Special Fund, and KfW credits are provided according to
normal IDA conditions,



_ 17 -
V.          RESULTS
The project was effectively implemented from 1985 to 1990 and the
results are roughly presented herebelow and then .-alyzed and discussed in
another auction.
5.1.        PART A: REINFORCEMENT OF DEFC
Part A essentially constoted of providing technical assistance
including two experts, all German nationals, and hiiud through international
bidding (technical assistance contract No. 001/PDF/EFC/MDRAC of March 22, 1985).
One expert, the forestry Advisor, was hired for five years from May 1985 to May
1990 et the other, the financial Controller, was hired for three years from 1985
to 1988. At the expiry of the latter's contract, he was replaced by his national
counterpart until the end of the project.
Each of these assistants worked according to the task a,signed to
him.  Their performances were more qualitative than quantitative since these
Assistants have participated in many activities initiated by the DEFC.  For
instance, they helped with the drafting of the forestry code and hunting
regulations, and with the restructuring of the DEFC organigram (creation of a
Studias and Development Service).
Apart form this technical assistance, there are other physical
achievements to the credit of part A. Besides the supply of some vehicles, there
are also:
- the building of an administrative center in Cotonou, jointly with
the African Development Bank (ADB), as part of the latter's participation in the
South Benin Fuelwood Plantation project.   The project team moved into this
building on May 10, 1988;
- the purchase of technical documentation for the DEFC Documentation
Center as well as two wooden bookcases for their storage;
- the purchase of a special cabinet for the personnel's filoe, 500
identification sheets, and a wall synoptic board with 500 entries.
Finally, there were some specific bvt very much appreciated support
actions towards the DEFC.
5.2.        PART B: LAMA REFORESTATION
With respect to the initial objectives, the achievements of the
reforestation part can be presented as follows:
YEAR         1986        1987         1988        1989         1990        TOTAL
Forecast     200          600         1,000       1,000        1,000       3,800
(ha)
Achievement        200         600           820          740         843   3,203
(ha)
A total area of 3,203 ha was planted against the 3,800 ha forecast,
with a success rate of 84,29 %. The office and workshop building planned for
Saclo were also completed.
As regards the feedeL. -oads, a total ne'work of 600 km laterite roads
were constructed plus 38 small bridges, two wells, and eight buildings.



- 18, -
Besides, there was also a support program involving mainly the
resettlement of forest populat .ons and their reinotallat.on in two agro-forestry
centers. Thus, within the framework of the protection -f the gazetted f')rest,
KfW has, in addition to its mandatory contribution, sponsored the protection of
the core area of the forest and a complementary agro-foreotry program. Two agro-
forestry centers of 200 ha each, were established for the resettlement of 200
Holli families. The program also provided them with social facilities like a
market, a school, wells, etc..
For the protection of the central nucleus, a forestry brigade was set
up by the DEFC, to which adequate equipment was furnished by XfW.
5.2.        PART C: PILOT PLANTATIONS
According to the basic project documents, the Forestry Research Unit
of the DRA has carried out its tests in two ecologically different zones:
- the Lama site at about 80 km from Cotonou with a guinean equatorial
type of climate and two rainy seasons.   Soils are "vertisoils" difficult to
cultivate;
- the Toui site, further north, at about 350 km from Cotonou with a
sudano-guinean climate and only one rainy season. This site is characterized by
tropical leached ferruginous soils.
Pilot plantations cover 60 ha at Toui and 40 ha in the Lama, thus
totalizing 100 ha out the 110 initially p'anned. Research work was carried out
in the following fields:
- introduction of exotic and local species into natural forests;
- association of species;
- attempts on new species sources;
- attempts of mychorization and direct sowing on Afzelia africana;
- studies on forest species germination in tree nurseries;
- observatory teak plantation; and
- planting techniques for Tectona grandis (teak) and Khaya
senegalensis (cailcedrat).
These various tests w.re performed on firewood and timber species
with average revolution. A comprehensive list of these species is providad in
Attachment 3.
VI.         ANALYSIS OF RESULTS
6.1.        APPRAISAL OF RESULTS
6.2.1.      Part A
In general, the strengthening activities are not satisfactory because
most fundings went to technical assistance which did not permit any involvoment
in specific actions. Both technical assistance and the other resources provided
should have been fully integrated to the daily life of all DEFC offices. Such
integration seemed to have started satisfactorily at one point but was quickly
dropped. Neither was there any proper training in this part.



- 19 -
The foregoing results from the fact that the strengthening of the
DEFC was not clearly defined from the outset in terms of specific objectives and
related act,vities.   This explains why the Studies and Development Unit,
initially intended as an Information and Orientation department, became redundant
and worked separately from the project implementation team.
The financial controller has established an analytical accounting for
the project, but not for the whole forestry sector as intended in the
documentation.    It  is,  however,  interesting  to  note  that  the  building
construction at the DEFC is a valuable achievement, in that it helps solve the
space problems by accommodating part of the Cotonou-based personnel. It is also
worth recalling the various informal inputs that were provided to the DEFC in its
routine operations.
6.1.2.      Part B
Achievements here are satisfactory in general. In fact, 3,203 ha out
of 3,800 have been planted, whicn gives a 84.29 % success rate, in addition to
the building constructions. The uncompleted part of plantations is due to the
quality of the Lama soils (vertisoils) which are rather hard to cultivate.
The support component enhances the degree of satisfaction since the
Lama case is an example of parzicipative forest management with resident
populations, where each party involved has been fully satisfied. Furthermore,
18 to 20 % of the project labor came from the resettled populations as paid job
and the project also provided community infrastructures such as roads.
The project also has the merit of introduciag a new species of teak
in Benin and testing the sowing of seeds grown in plastic bags as opposed to
stumps. Now, only the economic and financial analysis of this part will permit
any final conclusione on these activities.
6.1.3.      Part C
In part C, only 24.39 % of plantations were completed, i.e. 100 ha
out of 410.  Neither has it been possible to identify new charcoaling techniques
or even start experimentations in that respect. Since most attempts were made
between 1987 and 1990, it is still difficult, premature, and risky to make any
statements as to whether any of the newly introduced species has uieen a success
or a failure.
The conservatory teak plantation is valuable to the extent that it
involves five very rare varieties of that species, from Thailand and India.
It is also interesting to note that Research has worked on local
species of the natural forest with average revolution.  This is all the more
important since in the Lama particularly, possible alternatives to an almost
exclusive monoculture of teak, as is currently the case, is under study.
Nevertheless, it has to be noted that the level of achievement could
have been higher if the appraisal report had provided a chronogram with
quantified objectives, or better,  if the Forestry Research Unit had a real
research program ready for implementation. The latter aspect should be given
more emphasis in the future.
6.2         PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
6.2.1.      Bank's Performances
Regular and periodic supervisory missions from the Bank, two missions
per year, enabled a permanent monitoring of the project.   Reports by all
supervisory missions stated that progrees  was satisfactory.   Such regular



- 20  -
monitoring contributed to the effective training of the national Financial
Controller who was then able to manage correcUly the project finances. The Bank
accepted to cooperate with the ADB in the construction of the administrative
center in Cotonou.  It has to be noted here, that at a conceptual level, the
Bank, in its report No. 4687-BENN, shared the erroneous view that the forestry
department was mainly devoted to repression. Such improper assumptions were,
thus, used as the basis for most contracts.   In fact, these contracts were
unrealistic since:
- ONAB and the DRA/URF selected personnel from the DEFC to implement
their contracts, which means that the DEFC did have the required capacities; and
- it was the project which provided all the necessary equipment to
the contractors, as it could have done to the DEFC.
The Dank has not been able to turn the Studies and Development
Service into a real information and orientation unit although it had intended to
improve the performances of the various DEFC departments. While acknowledging
the success of its first forestry project in Benin, the Bank did not encourage
a follow up project as a means to consolidate these achievements.  It would
rather welcome a larger and more ambitious Natural Resources Management program
whose pilot phase is not really a follow up of the Forestry Development Project.
It would be interesting that great emphasis be put on the forestry sector in this
program.
6.2.2.      Co-sDonsors' Rerformances
KfW :
From a financial viewpoint, KfW which is the German co-sponsor has
shown ---her positive performances. Indeed, knowing the financial difficulties
of the country and for practical calendar and area considerations, KfW agreed to
entirely sponsor Benin's counterpart contribution to part B, for a total amount
of F CFA 275 million.
KfW also participated in the functioning of the Lama forest brigade
by providing the necessary equipment.
Finally, KfW accepted to support the post-project maintenance costs
of the Lama plantations. Such costs will be taken into account for the Lama
reforestation follow-up project entirely sponsored by the FRG.
BENIN :
Despite   the   ongoing   economic   crisis   during   the   project
implementation, the government made a valuable effort by disbursing it's
counterpart contribution, after part of it had been paid by the FRG. This is an
evidence of the government's interest in this project, as was already shown by
their good disposition and assistance to all Word Bank missions sent to Benin in
that respect.
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
The ADB was not a co-sponsor as such but is worth mentioning that
they accepted to collaborate with the World Bank in the building of an office
block for the managements of both the "Forestry Development" project (IDA) and
the "Fuelwood Plantation in South Benin" project (ADB).
In sum, the Forestry Development Project provided an excellent
cooperation opportunity between the World Bank, KfW, and the Government of Benin.



- 21 -
6.2.3.      Institutions' Performances
D.E.F.C. :
The Water, Forestry and Hunting Department, the chief supervisor for
the project, has performed according to the basic locuments and to the norms and
procedures established by the World Bank. As such, it carried out an audit every
year, after each budgetary exercise. Successive audit reports have shown that
in general, the project management went on improving, at least as far as the
DEFC's responsibility is concerned.
Due consideration to the initial suggestions by the Forestry Advisor,
resulted in the revision of the forestry department organigram.  The DEFC has
also provided assistance to all project-related World Bank mission to Benin.
But the DEFC has suffered a major handicap in its difficult task.
Indeed, the contractor for part B, which received the greatest share of the
funding, was given full management autonomy and thereby, withdrawn from the
supervision of the DEFC who was yet liable for the whole project.
ONAB:
The National Wood Company has carried out the installation of
plantations as scheduled for part B. But there were no management plans with a
schedule of necessary clearings to conduct the plantation as provided in article
2 of contract No. 002/EFC/PDF between the DEFC and ONAB.
Similarly, ONAB did not respect articles 8 and 10 of the contract
relating respectively to the submission of the different progress reports and of
the land cL.aring products.
URF-D A
The Forestry Research Unit (URF) of the Agricultural Research
Department did not perform well in the implementation of part C of the project
but was rather groping or even improvising. This was the results essentially of
the lack of a well defined and well developed research program from the outset.
However, it has the merit of undertaking the promotion of local
species by including them in their various tests.    As regards the correct
implementation of this part, under contract 003/EFC/PDF with DEFC, the DRA has
been sloppy towards the URF which is yet under its coordination. Article 4 of
the contract, relating to the modalities of progress reports eubmitted to the
DEFC, has been openly violated.



- 22 -
VII.        PROJECT ItiPACT
7.1.        ON NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
DEFC :
The Forestry Development Project has provided the opportunity for the
Water, Forest and Hunting Director, the National Project Director, the local
Financial Controller and a number of DEFC experts to experience, to various
degrees, some of the World Bank procedures, which will be a valuable asset in the
management of future projects to be sponsored by this institution. This is what
enabled the excellent collaboration between local and foreign experts as regards
the Natural Resources Management Project (NRMP) preparatory missions.
The project helped strengthen the capacities of the local Financial
Controller who has now been nominated to run the Materials and Finance Department
at the DEFC concurrently with the management of the NRMP preparaticn fund. Worth
mentioning also is the very positive impact of the building erected within the
DEFC jointly with the ADB.
ONAB :
The establishment of part B within ONAB has been very useful to that
company as the project budget was also used for it's own operations for the whole
duration of the project. It was thus, a golden opportunity in terms of equipment
and operating expenses.
Some of the ONAB experts were given the opportunity to learn
techniques used elsewhere for teak growing.
URF :
Apart form receiving equipment and becoming more operational, the
Forestry Research Unit also became convinced of the necessity of developing a
real research program which would provide guidelines for all its future
activities.
7.2.        ON THE PROJECT SITE
The project has provided employment opportunities by utilizing local
labor:
- in Toui, the project has provided substantial revenues to all
workers;
- in the Lama forest, despite the adequate equipment, many activities
were left to the residents. The project also contributed to the
achievement of community social infrastructures for the Lama forest and
neighboring populations.
As for environmental protection, there are no more bushfires or
clearings in the core area since 1987.
7.3.        ON BENIN FORESTRY SECTOR
The Forestry Development Project implementation has made a valid
contribution to the redynamization of the forestry sector in Benin. Indeed, the
project has permitted :
- the introduction of a new teak variety into Benin;
- to install a rare varieties seed orchard;



- 23 -
- to initiate a large scale natural resources management program,
even though such program is not exclusively for the forestry sector;
- to associate DEFC experts to the NRMP preparatory missions, thus
enabling their awareness of a number of valuable concepts and strategLes; and
- to teach resident populations that the lack of government
development projects in gazetted forests is not a waiver of State rights on such
forests.    Activities implemented in Toui will enable the identification of
certain species which are adapted to the central region of the country (sudano-
guinean climate), as part of the forest development activities in that ecological
zone.
VIII.       CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Forestry Development Project, which is the first World Bank-
sponsored forestry program in Benin, has been globally positive but with
variations across the different components.  Such positive result is due to both
weak and strong points as already mentioned earlier. The program has offered an
excellent opportunity for cooperation and collaboration between Benin and its
partners on one hand and between national institutions on the other hand. It
also provided the evidence that, unlike what might be believed in some places,
the DEFC does have the necessary capacities to prepare and implement programs for
the development of natural resources, especially as regards the forestry sector.
From lessons learned and experience, the following recommendations
can be made for a possible follow-up phase or for any other forthcoming similar
projects
- clear definition of the content of the institutional reinforcement
component with a view to strengthening existing structures to make them more
performative. This will avoid, for instance, duplications of services with the
same attributions, as was the case for the "Information and Orientation Service"
and the "Studies and Development Service." Thus, the targeted institution could
specify at the beginning of each year, the specific capacities to be reinforced;
- contracting should no longer be a prerequisite for the
implementation of activities but just an alternative for the management, based
on the specific capacities needed;
- permanent technical assistance should be avoided to the benefit of
the training of local experts. However, a local counterpart should be appointed
for every technical assistant position, and to whom the technical assistant would
have to transfer the necessary skills by the end of the contract;
- given hi. outstanding performance in managing the project finances
to the end, the financial controller could be considered for participating in the
training of other specialists in the field;
- for the development of natural resources in general and forest
resources in particular, it is important that real research programs be developed
according to the new forest ecosystem and village land management orientations;
- for efficiency and exchange of experience purposes, it will be
necessary to hold periodic evaluation and concertation meetings among all the
various structures involved in project implementation;
- in the perspective of developing a national forestry policy, some
project-related studies should be completed. Collaboration with NGOo would be
highly recommended in this matter;



- 24 -
- in order to consolidate project achievements for their
custainability, it is advisable that, the NRMP focus more on the forestry sector.
This would ensure a better environmental management through participative
forestry programs and prevention of bushfires.
ATTACHMENT 3 : SPECIES USED IN THE PART C (RESEARCH) TESTS
-Acacia ampliceps
-Acacia auriculiformis
-Acacia holosericea
-Acacia maconochiecana
-Acacia mangium
-Acacia nilotica
-Acacia polyacantha
-Acacia seyal
-Acacia tenuissima
-Acacia tumida
-Afzelia africana
-Anogeissus leiocarpus
-Antiaris africana
-Azadirachta indica
-Cedrela odorota
-Ceiba pentandra
-Chlorophora excelsa
-Dalbergia sissoo
-Eucalyptus camaldulensis
-Eucalyptus torreliana
-Gmelina arborea
-Holoptelea grandis
-Hymaneae courbaril
-Isoberlinia doka
-Khaya grandifoliola
-Khaya senegalensis
-Leucaena leucocephala
-Maesopsis eminii
-Peltophorum ferrugineum
-Prosopis chilensis
-Pseudocedrela koschii
-Pterocarpus erinaceus
-Tectona grandis
-Terminalia ivorensis
-Terminalia superba
-Triplochyton scleroxylon.



5
PART III:  STATISTICAL IY'FORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credit.s
Credit Title                Purpose   -        Year of Approval      Status
Zou-Borgou             To stimulate production    1972                 Cancelled
Cotton Project         of cotton
Credit 307-BEN                                                  _
Technical              To strengthen SONADI and   1977                 Completed
Assistance Project    CARDER and prepare
Credit 716-BEN         agricultural investment
_   projects
Borgou Rural           To improve rural income    1981                 Closed
Development Project   through expanded
Credit 1127-BEN        agricultural production
Zou Province           To improve rural income    1982                 Under SPN
Rural Developt.        through expanded
Project                production
Credit 1314-BEN
Atacora Rural Dvpt.   To strengthen extension    1982                  Closed
Project: IFAD          service and increase
IFAD; 101-BEN          food production
Second Borgou          To consolidate gaina of    1988                 Under SPN
Rural Dvpt. Project   first project, prepare
Credit 1877-BEN        medium-term progran for
rural sector, reorganize
cotton sub-sector
Agricultural           To improve provision of    1992                 Approved,
Services               agricultural services                           not yet
Restructuring          through restructuring of                        effective
Project                agricultural
institutions
Natural Resources      To promote more              1992               Approved,
Management Project    sustained and                                    not yet
responsible management                          effective
of renewable resources



- 26 -
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item           Planned          Revised      Actual Date       Comments (1)
Date            Date                   _
Identification   N.A.             N.A.             11/81
Preparation       N.A.            N.A.             10-12/82         a), b), c)
Appraisal         9/83            3/83             3/83              d), e), f)
Negotiations      11/83           11/83            11/83
Board Approval   FY 85            2/84             6/84
Signature         N.A.            N.A.             7/84
Effectiveness    6/84             11/84            7/85
Completion        6/89            N.A.             9/90
Closing           6/90            12/90            12/90            _
Notes
(1) Issues raised:       a) Institutional weakness
b) Donors' coordination
c) Availability of Government funds
d) Plantation executing agency
e) Land use management plan for Lama Reserve
f) Fuelwood/Charcoal supply strategy
(2) N.A. = Not Available



- 27 -
3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
ESTIMATE                           ACTUAL                   Percentage
IDA      FISCAL YEAR          OUARTER          DISBURSEMENT      CUMULATIVE      DISBURSEMENT      CUMULATIVE       ACT/EST.
(cumiutative)
1985                    3                 16                  16
4               524                 540
1986                    1                 41                581                 38            38                  7
2               266                 847                 5            44                  5
3               121                 968             1,017         1,061                110
4               181               1,149               197         1,258                109
1987                    1                161              1,310                133         1,391                106
2               356               1,666               395         1,786                107
3               202               1,868               743         2,529                135
4               202              2,070                111         2,639                128
1988                    1               243               2,313                319         2,958                128
2               458              2,771                282         3,240                117
3               202              2,973                474         3,713                125
4               202              3,175                334         4,048                127
1989                    1               202               3,377                270         4,318                128
2               401              3,778                694         5,011                133
3               202              3,980                  0         5,011                126
4               202              4,182                394         5,406                129
1990                    1                162              4,344                600         6,005                138
2               268              4,612                171         6,176                134
3               122              4,734                  9         6,185                131
4               161              4,895                114         6,299                129
1991                    1                162              5,057                  0         6,299                125
2               121              5,178                107         6,406                124
3                61              5,239                  0         6,406                122
4                61              5,300                  0         6,406                121
1992                    1                 60              5,360                  0         6,406                120
2                40              5,400                  0         6,d,06               119
NOTE: TotaL cumuLative actual disbursements are highei' than planned because of the depreciation of the dollar with
respect to the SDR over the period. (See foltowing page)



- 28 -
3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
B. SOR-USS Exchange RATE
USS DISBURSEMENT       SOR DISBURSEMENT        SDR/USS        X DISBURSEMENT  WEIGHTED
mAE                 (US)         RATE
1985
JuLy                                   30,845                 29,734              1.04              0.48          0.005
August
September                               7,489                  7,143              1.05              0.12          0.001
December                                5,487                  5,040              1.09              0.09          0.001
1 96
February                            1,016,863                908,252              1.12             15.87          0.178
ApriL                                  11,683                 10,266              1.14              0.18          0.002
May                                   185,189                162,000              1.14              2.89          0.033
July                                  133,438                111,609              1.20              2.08          0.025
October                               186,948                153,163              1.22              2.92          0.036
November                              208,230                173,522              1.20              3.25          0.039
December
1987
February                              669,580                526,351              1.27             10.45          0.133
March                                  72,940                 57,060              1.28              1.14          0.015
June                                  110,713                 86,195              1.28              1.73          0.022
August                                318,536                246,663              1.29              4.97          0.064
October                                42,945                 33,266              1.29              0.67          0.009
December                              238,876                172,218              1.39              3.73          0.052
1988
March                                 473,666                347,082              1.36              7.39          0.101
April                                  79,372                 57,481              1.38              1.24          0.017
May                                   183,232                132,902              1.38              2.86          0.039
June                                   71,839                 52,877              1.36              1.12          0.015
July                                  118,031                 90,842              1.30              1.84          0.024
August                                151,743                117,074              1.30              2.37          0.031
November                              132.960                 99,137              1.34              2.08          0.028
December                              560,829                414,342              1.35              8.76          0.119
1989
June                                  394,110                317,484              1.24              6.15          0.076
August                                573,870                455,501              1.26              8.96          0.113
September                              25,703                 20,834              1.25              0.40          0.005
October                               170,838                133,536              1.28              2.67          0.034
1990
January                                 9,167                  6,996              1.31              0.14          0.002
June                                  114,020                 86,975              1.31              1.78          0.023
November                              106,553                 73,574              1.45              1.66          0.024
1991
June                                        0                                     0.50             .00          0.000
TOTAL                              6,405,693               5,089,118                              100.00          1.27
AppraisaL Report
Exchange rate                                                                                                     1.06
Dollar Depreciation                                                                                              19.49
(percent)



- 29 
4. PRQJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Item                   Unit         Appraisal Estimate  Actual (or PCR
estimate)
A. Lama Plantation
New Plantings            Ha                      3,800             3,203
Access Roads             Km                         1 5                1 5
Plantation Tracks        Km                         38                 35
Protection Tracks        Km                         20                 1 8
Salvage Logging          m3                    76,000           Negligible
Of which:              __         ___       _                        _
Logs                   m3                      9,500           Negligible
Poles                  m3                      9,500           Negligible
Fuel                   m3                     57,000           Negligible
Farmers' houses          Unit                        0               200
Resettled Farmers        Unit                     200                200
Schools Built             Unit                       0                  2
Water Reservoir          Unit                        0                  1
Borehole                 Unit                        0                  1
B. Re earch Work                                                           _  . L
Pilot Plantation         Ha                       410                100



- 30 -
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
(UISS '000)
------Appraisal Estimate           ----- .    .    .Actual-            ----
Local     Foreign        Total          Locat       Foreign          Total
A. LAMA PLANTATION
Vehicles, machinery, equipment                   610       2,624        3,234           737          3,140          3,877
Plantation establishment                       1,480         951        2,431         2,281          1,457          3,738
BuiLdings & roads                                418         346          764           898            734          1,632
Technical Assistance, training                    51         831          882            74          1,152          1,226
Farmers' resettlement                                                                   400            133            533
Sub-total                                      2,559       4,752        7,311         4,390          6,616         11,006
B. PILOT PLANTATION PROGRAM
Vehicles, machinery, equipment                    66         288          354             8             34             42
Plantation establishment                         135          89          224            77             50            127
....       ....          ....          ....     .      ....   .
Sub-Total                                        201         377          578            85             84            169
C. STRENGTHENING OF DEFC
Vehicles and equipment                            20          87           107           38             72            110
Operating Costs                                  105         112           217           88             95            183
Technical Assistance & Consulting                 75         624          699           121            976          1,097
Administrative Building                                                                   8             14             22
Sub-Total                                        200         823        1,023           255          1,157          1,412
D. CONTINGENCIES
Physical Contingencies                           210         442          652
Price Contingencies                            1,532       1,866        3,398
Sub-Total                                      1,742       2,308        4,050
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           4,702        8,260       12,962         4,730          7,857         12,587



- 23 -
- to initiate a large scale natural resources management program,
even though such program is not exclusively for the forestry sector;
- to associate DEFC experto to the NRMP preparatory missions, thus
enabling their awareness of a number of valuable concepts and strategies; and
- to teach resident populations that the lack of government
development projects in gazetted forests is not a waiver of State rights on such
forests.    Activities implemented in Toui will enable the identification of
certain species which are adapted to the central region of the country (sudano-
guinean climate), as part of the forest development activities in that ecological
zone.
VIII.       CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Forestry Development Project, which is the first World Bank-
sponsored forestry program in Benin, haa been globally positive but with
variations across the different components.  Such positive result is due to both
wea. and strong points as already mentioned earlier. The program has offered an
excellent opportunity for cooperation and collaboration between Benin and its
partners on one hand and between national institutions on the other hand. It
also provided the evidence that, unlike what might be believed in some places,
the DEFC does have the necessary capacities to prepare and implement programs for
the development of natural resources, especially as regards the forestry sector.
From lessons learned and experience, the following recommendations
can be made for a possible follow-up phase or for any other forthcoming similar
projects s
- clear definition of the content of the institutional reinforcement
component with a view to strengthening existing structures to make them siore
performative. This will avoid, for instance, duplications of services with the
same attributions, as was the case for the "Information and Orientation Service"
and the "Studies and Development Service." Thus, the targeted institution could
specify at the beginning of each year, the specific capacities to be reinforced;
- contracting should no longer be a prerequisite for the
implementatior. of activities but just an alternative for the management, based
on the specific capacities needed;
- permanent technical assistance should be avoided to the benefit of
the training of local experts. However, a local counterpart should be appointed
for every technical assistant position, and to whom the technical assistant would
have to transfer the necessary skills by the end of the contract;
- given his outstanding performance in managing the project finances
to the end, the financial controller could be considered for participating in the
training of other specialists in the field;
- for the development of natural resources in general and forest
resources in particular, it is important that real research programs be developed
according to the new forest ecosystem and village land management orientations;
- for efficiency and exchange of experience purposes, it will be
necessary to hold periodic evaluation and concertation meetings among all the
various structures involved in project implementation;
- in the perepective of developing a national forestry policy, some
project-related studies should be completed. Collaboration with NGOs would be
highly recommended in this matter;



- 24 -
- in order to consolidate project achievements for their
sustainability, it is advisable that, the NRMP focus more on the forestry sector.
This would ensure  a better environmental management through participative
forestry programs and prevention of bushfires.
ATTACHMENT 3 : SPECIES USED IN THE PART C (RESEARCH) TESTS
- Acacia ampliceps
- Acacia auriculiformis
- Acacia holosericea
- Acacia maconochiecana
- Acacia mangium
- Acacia niloti.ca
- Acacia polyacantha
- Acacia seyal
- Acacia tenuissima
- Aca-ia tumida
- Afzelia africana
- Anogeissus liocarpus
- Antiaris africana
- Azadirachta indica
- Cedrela odorota
- Ceiba pentandra
- Chlorophora excel3a
- Dalbergia sissoo
- Eucalyptus camaldulensis
- Eucalyptus torreliana
-Gmelina arborea
-Holoptelea grandis
-Hymaneae courbaril
- Isoberlinia ioka
- Khaya grandifoliola
- Khaya senegalensis
- Leucaena leucocephala
-Maesopsis eminii
- Peltophorum ferrugineum
- Prosopis chilensis
- Pseudocedrela koschii
- Pterocarpus erinaceus
- Tectona grandis
- Terminalia ivorensis
- Terminalia superba
- Triplochyton scleroxylon.



2 25 -
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFOKMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Credit Title                Purpose           Year of Approval      Status
Zou-Borgou            To stimulate production    1972                Cancelled
Cotton Pi3ject        of cotton
Credit 307-BEN                                                                   l
Technical             To strengthen SONADI and   1977                Completed
Assistance Project    CARDER and prepare
Credit 716-BEN        agricultural investment
projects                                                   I
Borgou Rural          To improve rural income    1981                Closed
Development Project   through expanded
Credit 1127-BEN       agricultural production
Zou Province          To improve rural income    1982                Under SPN
Pural Developt.       through expanded
Project               production
Credit 1314-BEN                                                          _
Atacora Rural Dvpt.  To strengthen extension    1982                 Closed
Project: IFAD         service and increase
IFAD: 101-BEN         food production                 _
Second Borgou         To consolidate gains of    1988                Under SPN
Rural Dvpt. Project   first project, prepare
Credit 1877-BEN       medium-term program for
rural sectcr, reorganize
cotton sub-sectcr                                          I
Agricultural          To improve provision of    1992                Approved,
Services              agricultural services                          not yet
Restructuring         thrcugh re3structuring of                      effective
Project               agricultural
institutions                                              l
Natural Resources     To promote more             1992               Approved,
Management Project    sustained and                                  not yet
responsible management                         effect ve
of renewable resources



- 26 -
2 2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item           Planned          Revised      Actual Date       Comments (1)
Date            Date
Identification   N.A.             N.A.             11/81_
Preparation       N.A.            N.A.             10-12/82         a), b), C)
Appraisal         9/83            3/83             3/83              d), e), f)
Negotiations      11/83           11/83            11/83
Board Approval   FY 85            2/84             6/84
Signature         N.A.            N.A.             7/ _84
Effectiveness    6/84             11/84            7/85
Completion        6/89            N.A.             9/90
Closing           6/90            12/90            12/90
Notes
(1) Issues raised:       a) Institutional weakness
b) Donors' coordination
c) Availability of Government funds
d) Plantation executing agency
e) Land use management plan for Lama Reserve
f) Fuelwood/Charcoal supply strategy
(2) N.A. = Not Available



- 27 -
3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
A.   Cumulative  Estimated  and Actual Disbursement
ESTIMATE                          ACTUAL                   Percentage
IDA      FISCAL YFAR          OUARTER         DISBURSEMENT      CUMULATIVE    DISBURSEMENT    CUMULATIVE          ACT/EST.
(cumulative)
1985                    3                16                  16
4               524                540
1986                    1                41                581                 38            38                 7
2              266                 847                 5            44                 5
3               121                968             1,017         1,061                110
4               181              1,149               19?'        1,258                109
1987                    1               161              1,310                133         1,391               106
2              356               1,666               395         1,786                107
3               202              1,868               743         2,529                135
4               202              2,070               111         2,639                128
1988                    1               243              2,313               319          2,958               128
2              458               2,771               282         3,240               117
3               202              2,973               474         3,713                125
4               202              3,175               334         4,048                127
1989                    1               202              3,377                270        4,318                128
2              401               3,778               694         5,011               133
3              202               3,980                 0         5,011               126
4               202              4,182               394         5,406                129
1990                    1               162              4,344               600         6,005                138
2              268               4,612               171         6,176               134
3               122              4,734                 9         6,185               131
4               161              4,895               114         6,299                129
1991                    1               162              5,057                  0        6,299                125
2               121              5,178               107         6,406               124
3                61              5,239                 0         6,406               122
4                61              5,300                 0         6,406               121
1992                    1                60              5,360                  0         6,406               120
2               40               5,400                 0         6,406               119
NOTE: Total cumulative actual disbursements are higher than planned because of the depreciation of the dollar with
resp?ct lo the SOR over the period. (See fotlowing page)



- 28 -
3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
B. SDR-USS Exchange RATE
USS DISBURSEMENT     SDR DISSURSEMENT      SDR/USS       X DISBURSEMENT  WEIGHTED
REM           _      .USS .    RATE
1985
July                                30,845               29,734            1.04             0.48         0.005
August
September                            7,489                7,143            1.05             0.12         0.001
December                             5,487                5,040             1.09            0.09         0.001
1 98o
February                         1,016,863              908,252            1.12            15.87         0.178
Aprit                               11,683               10,266             1.14            0.18         0.002
May                                185,189              162,000             1.14            2.89         0.033
July                               133,438              111,609             1.20            2.08         0.025
October                            186,948              153,163             1.22            2.92         0.036
November                           208,230              173,522             1.20            3.25         0.039
December
1987
February                          669,580               526,351            1.27            10.45         0.133
March                               72,940               57,060             1.28            1.14         0.015
June                               110,713               86,195            1.28             1.73         0.022
August                             318,536              246,663             1.29            4.97         0.064
October                             42,945               33,266             1.29            0.67         0.009
December                           238,876              172,218             1.39            3.73         0.052
1988
March                              473,666              347,082             1.36            7.39         0.101
April                               79,372               57,481             1.38            1.24         0.017
May                                183,232              132,902             1.38            2.86         0.039
June                                71,839               52,877             1.36            1.12         0.015
JuLy                               118,031               90,842             1.30            1.84         0.024
August                             151,743              117,074             1.30            2.37         0.031
November                           132,960               99,137             1.34            2.08         0.028
December                           560,829              414,342             1.35            8.76         0.119
1989
June                               394,110              317,484            1.24            6.15          0.076
August                             573,870              455,501             1.26            8.96         0.113
Septefmtber                         25,703               20,834            1.25             0.40         0.005
October                            170,838              133,536             1.28            2.67         0.034
1990
January                             9,167                 6,996            1.31             0.14         0.002
June                               114,020               86,975            1.31             1.78         0.023
November                           106,553               73,574             1.45            1.66         0.024
1991
June                                    0                     0            0.50             0.00        0.Q00
TOTAL                            6,405,693            5,089,118                           100.00         1.27
AppraisaL Report
Exchange ratc                                                                                            1.06
Dollar Depreciation                                                                                     19.49
(percent)



- 29 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
|ndicat_r_
Item                   Unit        Appraisal Estimate  Actual (or PCR
estimate)
A. Lama Plantation                       l
New Plantings            Ha                      3,800             3,203
Access Roads             Km                         15                 15
Plantation Tracks        Km                         38                35
Protection Tracks        Km                         20                 1 8
Salvage Logging          m3                    76,000           Negligible
Of which:                ___                                  __I
Logs                   m3                      9,500          Negligible
Poles                  m3                      9,500          Negligible
Fuel                   m3                     57,000          Negligible
Farmers' houses          Unit                        0               200
Resettled Farmers        Unit                      200               200
Schools Built             Unit                       0                  2
Water Reservoir          Unit                        0                  1
Borehole                 Unit                        0                  1
B. Research Work                                             .                     l
Pilot Plantation         Ha                       410                100



- 30 -
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
(USS'000)
------Appraisal Estimate-----             ------------Actual---------.--
Local     Foreign        Total           Local       Foreion          Total
A. LAHA PLANTATION
Vehicles, machinery, equipment                   610        2,624        3,234           737          3,140          3,877
Plantation establishment                       1,480          951        2,431         2,281          1,457          3,738
Buildings & roads                                418          346           764          898             734          1,632
Technical Assistance, training                     51         831           882           74          1,152           1,226
Farmers' resettlement                                                                    400             133            533
Sub-total                                      2,559        4,752        7,311         4,390          6,616          11,006
B. PILOT PLANTATION PROGRAM
Vehicles, machinery, equipment                     66         288           354             8             34             42
Plantation establishment                          135          89           224            77             50            127
Sub-Total                                         201         377           578           85              84            169
C. STRENGTHENING OF DEFC
Vehicles and equipment                             20          87           107           38              72            110
Operating Costs                                   105         112           217            88             95            183
Technical Assistance & Consulting                  75         624           699           121            976          1,097
Administrative Building                                                                     8             14             22
Sub-Total                                        200          823         1,023          255           1,157          1,412
D. CONTINGENCIES
Physical Contingencies                           210          442           652
Price Contingencies                            1,532        1,866        3,398
Sub-Total                                      1,742        2,308        4,050
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            4,702        8,260       12,962         4,730          7,857          12,587



- 31 -
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
B. Project Financing
(US$'000)
4p------------ AWraisaL Pian ..........                    ............. -  Actua L..............
IDA           FPG             GVT        TOTAL              IDA          FRO              GVT       TOTAL
1. Vehicles L Equlpmnnt                  402         3,812                        4,215               85       4,400                         4,485
2. Forestry Works                      2,975                        1,082         4,057           4,082        1,329             483         5,894
3. ConsuLtants                           911                                         911          1,026                                       1,026
4. TechnicaL Assisten                                 1,19.°                      1,199                        1,200                          1,200
5. Operating Costs                        32                           59             90             194                           59           253
6. InitiaL Costs                         352                                         352             -25                                        -25
7. PPF                                   156                                         156              31                                         31
8. UnaLtocated                           573                                         573
9. Taxes                         ___ __                             1.4M                           -            -                -            -
TOTAL                                  5,400         5,011          2,549        12,961           5,393        6,929             542         12,864



- 32 -
6.    Project Results
A.   Direct Results
Indicator                           Appraisal Estimate       Present Estimate
(PCR)
Average Mean Ar,nual Incrernent            11.5                   12.8
(M.A.I.) in m3/ha/year
B.    Economic Impact
Economic Rate u; Return                   14.5%                  14.3%
C.    Basic Assumgtions of Economic Impact
The economic analysis of the project was calculated on the same basis as the appraisal
report. In both cases, the costs included are the costs of the Lama plantation. Like it! the
appraisal report, the cost of the pilot plantations have been included. The costs of technical
assistance and training have been excluded as they would have mainly long term
unquantifiable benefits. The benefits include the wood produced and salvage logging at the
Lama plantation valued at economic prices. Unlike in the appraisal report, benefits from the
pilot plantations have been excluded because no significant planting activity took place there.
Costs and benefits have been estimated in 1991 terms, net of taxes. As in the
appraisal report, wages and salaries of the skilled workers in the Lama plantation are based
on the pay scale of the ONAB. Unskilled labor has been costed at prevailing rates in the Lama
region, which is the same assumption made at appraisal. Unlike in the appraisal report, no
opportunity cost has been estimated for the Lama plant,tion since permanent laborers are
former illegal settlers who had no alternative occupatis,ii. In addition, the project has spent
money to provide them with basic infrastructure, new plots of land, extension and social
services such as schools and infirmaries. Many of these benefits are unquantifiable and can
be considered to largely compensate any opportunity cost. The values of poles and woods
have been estimated as shown in Table 6.6 compared with CFAF 10.8 million annually for
PYl -PYl 5.



- 33 -
The economic value of standing timber is based on the production table proposal
shown in table 6.1 and is derived from the weighted average export parity (border) price of
teak or similar sawnwood. Intermediate costs are deducted from these values obtained as
shown in table 6.5. The appraisal report had used the import parity price as the reference.
The resulting values of standing steak saw logs are estimated per cubic meter at CFAF
38,786 and held constant throughout (about US$ 134 compared with LIS$ 86 at appraisal for
2nd to 4th thinnings, US$ 122 for 5th thinnings and US$ 203 for trees failed at maturity).
The economic prices of timber products from salvage logging has beern estimated at roadside
value at CFAF 250 (US$ 0.86) and 400 (US$ 1.38) per pole for small and big poles
respectively compared with US$ 55 and US$ 144 per cubic meter at appraisal. The available
data did not make it possible to convert the pole numbers on a per volume basis.
Based on the above assumptions, the economic rate of return of the project at PCR
time has been estimated at 14.3%. However, if no further external assistance is brought to
the project, revenues may drop sharply and consequently reduce the rate of return.
D.   Studies
No studies were carried out or financed under the project.



- 34 -
TABLE 6.1
A. Elements of Production Table
Age:yearo   Density    Average  Stand    Thinning %Trees   Total    M.A.I.(1)
trees/ha   Height   Volume   Volume   Thinning Product. m3/ha/yr
meters  m3/ha    m3/ha
1      1250.0
4      1250.0       11.0     60.9                 30.0      60.9      15.2
4       875.0       11.0     42.6      18.3                 60.9      15.2
8       875.0       15.0    109.8                 45.0     128.1      16.0
8        481.3      15.0     63.9      49.4                113.4      14.2
12       481.3       19.0    135.5                          203.2      16.9
12       381.3       19.0    107.3      28.2       20.8
16        381.3      22.0    200.0                          296.1      18.5
16       281.3       22.0    129.0      71.2       35.6
20        181.3      25.0    144.7                          311.8      15.6
20        140.0      25.0    112.8      31.9       22.1
24        140.0      28.0    184.5                          383.5      16.0
30        140.0      30.0    261.1                          460.1      15.3
40        140.0      33.0    314.5                          513.5      12.8
(1) Mean Annual Increment



TABLE 6.2
B. Production Parameters
Area      Pole      Pole      Wood       Wood      Wood       Wood
Age: year.Planted   Product. Product. Product.   Product.  Product.  Product.
(ha)  (lot Th) (2nd Th) (3rd Th)   (4th Th)  (5th Th)   (Final)
(m3)       (m3)      (m3)       (m3)
1        200
2        600
3        820
4        740    75,000
5        843   225,000
6              307,500
7              277,500
8              316,125   78,750
9                        236,250
10                        322,875
11                        291,375
12                        331,931    5,631
13                                   16,894
14                                   23,088
15                                   20,835
16                                  23,736      14,238
17                                              42,713
18                                              58,375
19                                              52,680
20                                              60,012      6,388
21                                                         19,165
22                                                        26,192
23                                                        23,636
24                                                        26,926
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40                                                                   62,902
1C8,707
257,899
232,738
265,133



- 36 -
TABLE 6.3
C. Production Summary
Pole            Polo              Wood
Production      Production        Production
(lst Th)        (2nd Th)            (m3)
Age: years
1
2
4           75,000
5          225,000
6          307,500
7          277,500
8          316,125          78,750
9                          236,250
10                          322,875
1,                          291,375
12                          331,931               5,631
13                                               16,894
14                                               23,088
15                                               20,835
16                                               37,973
17                                               42,713
18                                               58,375
19                                               52,680
20                                               66,400
21                                               19,165
22                                               26,192
23                                               23,636
24                                               26,926
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40                                               62,902
41                                              188,707
42                                              257,899
43                                              232,738
44                                              265,133



- 37 -
TABLE 6,4
D. Costs Elements
Year 6           Year 7   Yr 8 and after
Road Maintenance
Km                                   68.2              68.2            68.2
Cost/km                         250,000.0         250,000.0      250,000.0
Coat/year (CFAF'000)             17,050.0          17,050.0       17,050.0
Plantation Maintained (ha)
lot Year maintenance                843.0               0.0
2nd Year maintenance                740.0             843.0
Regular Maintenance               1,620.0           2,360.0        3,203.0
Cost/ha (CFAF/ha)
lst Year maintenance             53,000.0               0.0            0.0
2nd Year maintenance             42,000.0          42,000.0             0.0
Regular mintenance               13,000.0          13,000.0       13,000.0
Total Plantation maint.          96,819.0          66,086.0       41,639.0
(CFAF'000)
GRAND TOTAL                     113,869.0          83,136.0       38,689.0



- 3F -
TABLE 6.5
E. Economic Values
Small            Large      Saw Logs
Poles            Poles        m3
FOB Cotonou (sawn)                                              95,000.0
Intermediate Costs (1)                                          56,214.0
Net Value                                                       38,786.0
Yield                                                                0.6
Net Value                                                       23,271.0
Roadside Economic Value           250               400         23,271.0
(1) Based on ONAB's experience



- 39 -
TABLE 6.6
F. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
..-Revenues-
Invest.  Operatg.    Total      S_I.      Large     Total                  Total
Age:years    Costs      Costs      Costs    PoLes    PoLes       Poles       Wood    Revenues      Net Flow
1  304,574               304,574                                                    0      -304,57-
2  305,185               305,185                                                    0      -305,185
3   258,407              258,407                                                    0      -258,407
4   596,678              596,678    18,750               18,750                37,500      -559,178
5  418,207               418,207    56,250              56,250                112,500      -305,707
6             113,869    113,869    76,875               76,875               153,750        39,881
7              83,136     83,136    69,375              69,375                138 750        55,614
8              58,689     58,689    79,031    31,500    110,531               221,063       162,374
9              58,689     58,689              94,500    94,500                189,000       130,311
10              58,689     S. 689             129,150    129,150               258,300       199,611
11              58,689     58,689             116,550    116,550               233,100       174,411
12              58,689     58,689             132,773    132,773   131,046     396,591       337,902
13              58,689     58,689                                  393,137     393,137       334,448
14              58,689     58,689                                  537,287     537,287       478,598
15              58,689     58,689                                  484,869     484,869       426,180
16              58,689    58,689                                   883,688     883, 688      824,999
17              58,689     58,689                                  993,99      993,990       935,301
18              58,689    58,689                                 1,358,453   1,358,453     1,299,764
19              58,689     58,689                                1,225,921   1,225,921     1,167,232
20              58,689     58,689                                1,545,219   1,545,219     1,486,530
21              58,689     58,689                                  445,987    445,987        387,298
22              58,689     58,689                                  609,515     609,515       550,826
23              58,689     58,689                                  550,050     550,050       491,361
24              58,689    58,689                                   626,611     626,611       567,922
25              58,689     58,689                                                    0       .58,689
26              58,689     58,6a9                                                    0       -58,689
27              58,689     58,689                                                    0       -58,689
28              58,689     58,689                                                    0       -58,689
29              58,689     58,689                                                    0       -58,689
30              58,689     58,689                                                    0       -58,689
31             s5,689      58,689                                                    0       -58,689
32              58,689     58,689                                                    0       -58,689
33              58,689     58,689                                                    0       -58,689
34              58,689     58,689                                                    0       -58,689
35              58,689     58,689                                                    0       -58,689
36              58,689     58,689                                                    0       -58,689
37              58,689     5&,689                                                    0       -58,689
38              58,689    58,689                                                     0       -58,689
39              58,689     58,689                                                    o       -58,689
40              58,689     58,689                                1,463,8,6   1,463,816     1,405,127
41                                                               4,391,449   4,391,449     4,391,449
42                                                               6,001,646   6,001,646     6,001,646
43                                                               5,416,120   5,416,120     5,416,120
44                                                               6,169,935   6,169,985     6,169,985
45
Economic Rate of return   Space 14.3%



_ 40 -
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Development
Credit Agreement
Brief Description        Section or Special    Compliance       Comments
Agreement Section
Open special A&B accounts in CAA        2.02 (cl           yes
Open Project Advance Account (PAA)      3.01 (b)           yes
in CAA
Make initial deposit of CFA 32          3.01 (b)           yes
millions in PAA
Replenish PAA every 4 months            3.01 (b)           yes      L3ter on Government
had problems with
this covenant
Establish Advisory/Policy Unit within   3.02 (a)           yes
DEFC                                                                                    I
Employ forest specialist and financial  3.02 (b)           yes
controller within DEFC                                                                  l
Provide Advisory/Policy Unit with       3.02 (c)           yes      But financial
funds & facilities as appropriate                                   problems experienced
by Government later
on
Employ consultants acceptable to IDA     3.03              yes
selected following IDA's guidelines
Enter into agreement with ONAB          3.04               yes     __-
ONAB to prepare initial and             3.04 (a)           yr.s     For first year, not
subsequent annual work plans                                        done thereafter
ONAB to implement plantation            3.04 (b)           yes
component                                                                               l
ONAB to follow prescribed               3.04 (c)           yes
procurement guidelines                                         .
ONAB to modify its accounting           3.04 (d)           yes      done with delay
system before december 31, 1984    _
ONAB to submit quarterly reports to     3.04 (e)          done      reports prepared but
DEFC                                                                not always submitted
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ ___   _to    DEFC
ONAB to be remunerated with             3.04 (f)
revenues from salvage logging
DEFC and DRA to enter into research      3.05         done with
protocol                                              delay



Goods to be insured                       3.06 (a)       done
Goods and services financed from the     3.06 (b)       done
credits to be used exclusively for
project                                                             _
Borrower to furnish IDA with (a)         3.07 (a)       not done
project monitoring plan
(b) monitoring plan for financial        3.07 (b)       not done
operations
(c) Annual work programs and             3.07 (c)       done but not
budgets for plantation                                  submitted
Borrower to furnish plans,               3.08 (a)       done
specifications, reports, contract
documents and procurement
schedules
Borrower to maintain records and        3.08 (b) (i)    substantially
procedures to record and monitor                        done
project progress
Borrower to enable IDA's                3.08 (b) (ii)   done
representatives to visit project
facilities and examine records
Borrower to furnish periodic reports    3.08 (b) (iii)  substantially
on project                                              done
Borrower to prepare Completion           3.08 (c)       done          with a delay of 2
Report less than 6 months after                                       months, without
closing                                                               economic or financial
analysis
Borrower to secure rights for land         3.09         done
necessary for the project
Borrower to maintain proper              4.01 (a)       basically
accounting records                                      done
Borrower to maintain separate            4.01 (b)       done
accounts for the Development and the    & 4.01 (c)
Spacial Fund Credit agreements and
retain records until one year after
closing date



- 42 -
8.       Use of Bank Resources
A.       Staff Inouts (Staffweeks)
TO
TASK                    FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92            TOTAL
Preparation                        --   24.4      --             --      --                           --               24.4
AppraisaL                               24.1   10.2       --      -      --             --   -         *      -        34.3
Negotiations/Board                 --      --    3.8                     --     - -                                     3.8
Loan Processing (LOP)                    0.5    5.2              --      --     -       --     --                       5.7
......  .... .. ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .   ....  .... .. .... .. ..... ....
Sub-total                      0.0   49.0   19.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           68.2
Supervision                        --      --            6.6    4.2    3.8    4.3    8.6   10.5    7.2        --       45.2
Project Adcinistration (PAD)       --      --     --    0.5    1.0       -      --      --     -       .      -.        1.5
Project Completion Report          --      --     --       -      -      --     --      --     --      --     6.6       0.0
,... . ...... .. .   . .. .  ....   .....  ....   .....  ....   .....  ----   ----  ....  ............
Sub-total                      0.0    0.0    0.0    7.1    5.2    3.8    4.3    8.6   10.5    7.2    0.0           46.7
TOTAL                          0.0   49.0   19.2    7.1    5.2    3.8    4.3    8.6'  10.5    7.2    0.0          114.9
S = ===Z  xzz2 5-=S    z=ui *- 3S *S#   3   =23 S---       3:3       Munoz
February 10, 1992



- 43 3
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
B. Missions (Staff and consultants)
Date             Number of      Days in field    Specialization   Performance    Problems
________________   persons                    represented     rating (a)      listed (b)
(i) Appraisal
3/198            3              22              1 forester
2 economists
(ii) Supervision         _
1. 9/'84         1 (c)          2.5             economist       1,2             none
2. 5/'85         2 (c)          4               economist       2,1             M
3. 5/'86         1 (c)          4               agronomist      2               M,DI
economist
4. 1 1 P86      1(c)           6               agriculturalist   2             M1DI
5. 5/'87         1              4               agriculturalist   2             M,DI
6. 1 1/'87       2 (c)          5               agriculturalist   2             M,DI
forester (d)         __l
7. 7/'88         2 (c)          9               agriculturalist   2             M,DI
financial
analyst
8. 12/'89        2              10              agriculturalist   2             DI,F
financial
analyst
9. 1 2/'90       2              4               agriculturalist   1             Dl
financial
_______________  analyst
(a) Until May 1985, first number represented overall rating, second number represented status (trend)
rating as follows: 1 = no significant problems; 2 = moderata prblems, 3 =major problems which are
being addressed adequately; and 4=major problems not being addressed adequately. The status
code stopped in new Form 590 with the May 1986 report.
Status code was as follows: 1 =improving; 2=stationary; and 3=deteriorating.
(b) The types of problems shown are: M=Managerial; F=Financial; T=Technical; P=Political.
Di= Development Impact.
(c) Mission also had representative of co-financing agency in addition to persons listed above.
(d) The forester was a consultant.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
DOCUMENTS CONSULTED
1.    Project Briefs
2.   Issues Papers
3.    Pre-mission meeting papers
4.    Back-to-office reports
5.    Decision memorandum and remarks on decision memo
6.    Correspondence between the Bank and the Government
7.    Negotiations memorandum
8.   Appraisal Report
9.    Supervision reports
10.  Special Fund Credit Agreement
11.  Development Credit Agreement
12.  President's Report
13.  Technical Assistance Contracts
14.  Bank missions Aide-Memoires
15.  Bid Documents
16.  Benin 1982 Forestry Sector Report
17.  Review of GTZ Report on Benin Forestry Development
18.  Review of UNDP/FAO Forestry Development Project
19.  FY 90, ARIS-Performance of agricultural projects in Africa
20.  Progress report in implementing FY 90 ARIS recommendations, AF1 Agriculture
21.  ARIS FY90, Results for AFlAG
22.  Annual Review of Evaluation results for 1990: Agriculture, Background Paper
23.  Reports by the German Forestry Mission at ONAB
24.  Lama Res3rve Quarterly Reports of the German Forestry Mission
25.  Natural Resources Management Project: Yellow/Green Cover/Buff Cover
26.  Forestry Project Audit Reports
27.  Comparaison des differentes tables de production pour le teck (Tectona grandis), by H. Forster,
Novembre 1991 Greman Forestry Mission in Benin
28.  ONAB's annual reports (especially the 1990 one)
29.  Other reports.



_ 45 -
ANN'EX 2
COMMENTS FROM COFINANCIER
German Forestry Mission in Benin
Deutsche Gesellschaft fu-r
Technische Zusammenarbelt (GTZ) GmbH
Project for the Development of Forestry and Wood in Benin
Cotonou, 29.05.1992
World Bank
Resident Mission, Benin
Attention: Mr. Brizzi
Sir:
Thank you for the forwarding, by Mr. Grabener, of the Project Completion Report for
the Forestry Development Project.
With regard to the reforestation of the Luma, cofinanced by KfW, the results presented
in the above-mentioned report are correct.
Sincerely yours,
German Forestry Mission
Mission Chief
(Illegible signature)



-X "<-\,  / ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                 N I G E R 2 ,                      
n MALI                // ENIGER
/RURKINAURKIN
(MO ~            ~            FS
.1  C-A~~~~CJWE
\    Hi_J}  t~NGERIA                                       \      \l                              i     
DtlAe(    C     Gi 2 BURKINA \- <  j1-
4 }0~~~~~ FALSO                                                                            K X g o   E      ANVILL1
ATLANTrC  OCEAN                  O-                                 K+ otsro                                     f
,e            Sor.so,     t       /0           [0g0 !
*         \,Dossor,                                  If                                soon    
(-         X~A T A C O R A   5S.o                                          ww                                          bl 
TANGUlJKIA                                                               B   O eeor oe
SoYj,            A-ooor4o-
K?o,o,eeLn1                   ±     Koroeooo             PI,ok\ebf                                        / 
\     NATITINGO                  olsd         '      4        tne            /(    Dnos  
Kooo.eob. S/tos    
D~~~~~~~~   ........../~
t  0  )        tv        /     <<~~~~~~                 ~~PAR  U  
@- 080%|10 ) I i' ~~~~~~~~B E N I N 9
FORESTRY PROJECT
Afric,n Deoplo-teos Book
T O  G  O                      I                          _  _   _    >                          *   Fuelwood Plonrtts- Pro,est
} ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       BE iE  Heodqoorrrrs0
Foress1 Reserve
I   4 M   /al   ,?    )?       ?                     ~~~~~~~~Inmernorionol Boondorles
rg                                        D.;           \?/            ew                                       BroodlolS Foergeer 'orest                        -
chet!  \   to  ot              X                        D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eeriduoso Foroor  hrF ond CoIrbiroed Vegororv
< 4  y|DASSAiO<b din~~                              loll-geor  orov  Boetsh ordCI,rr,  ne
l S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~yr Crro  Morgoro ro
~,,0~osigoor  *..     .. .                      CIogt     V
AtoneA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5ome 20O                                                    F73 00  2   60  so      :a 0
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~851 .                                        (Sd                      9165        10   20   50    20    50   000
Sod O_£ 0       Sogo1                                                     -
440 Nnrend    Popc        ,                                _   d
rioot 0~~~~~~~~~e~~.-sSONS2I3IJ                                              5 ~
A,.Oq
11,rk



