Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
C4 150o5 -_Gi
Sc_ ),{_ f2 
Repit Ne. P-3661-BEN
REPORI AND tRECOMMENDATION
OF TSE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IEATIONAL DEVEMPMEVr ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDrr
AND
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
IN AMOlNlS EQUIVALENT TO USt2.6 M1ILLION
AND USM2M8 MILLION RESPEVLY
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
May 29, 1984
This dw_ent km a resrkted distrudn ud may be used by recipients only in the peformane of
dr official dubs Its contents =ay el odtrwi be discled withot World Bank xnthoizatiou.



PEOPLE 'S RMPUBLIC OF BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
USS                =    CPAF 418 1/
CPA? 1 million          USS2392
1/  The CFA Franc (CPA?) is tied to the French
Franc (YF) in the ratio of FP 1 to CPA? 50.
The French Franc is currently floating.
ABBREVIATIONS
CARDER    -   Center for Regional Action of Rural Development
DEFC      -   Depar-tment of Forestry, Water and Hunting
DRA       -   Agricultural Research Department (Direction de 'a
Recher-he Agronomique)
PEG       -   Federal Republic of Germany
GTZ       -   Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zurammenarbeit GmbE
UPW       -  Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau
KDRAC     -   Kinistry of RuraZl Development and Cooperative Action
(Ninistere du Developpement Rurale et Action Cooperative)
10WEEP    -   Ninistry of State Farms, Livestock and Fisheries
(xinist4re des Fermes d'Etat, de V'Elevage et de 'a
POche)
MESES     -   Ninistry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
(Minist4re de I'Emseignement Superieur et la Recherche
Scientifique)
ONAB      -   State Vood Company (Office National du Bois)
SNAFOR    -   National Forestry Development Company
(Societe Nationale pour le D6veloppement Forestier)
UNSO      -   United Nations Sudan-Sahel Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PROJECT YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BZNIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUXMARY
Borrower:      People's Republic of Benin
*       IDA Credit:    SDR 2.5 million (US$2.6 million)
Special Fund
Credit:      SDR 2.6 million (USS2.8 million)
Terms:          Standard IDA terms
Co-financing:   Federal Republic of Germany
Project
Description: As principal objectives, the project would:
(i) reorganize and increase the technical c&pacity of
Government's Forestry and Hunting Department (DEFC), to
increase its effectiveness in (a) collection and use of
basic information for the formulation of an appropriate
forestry strategy, (b) planning, coordinating and
executing programs to implement the strategy, and (c)
design and administration of fiscal measures influencing
the forestry sector; and
(ii) execute an industrial plantations program to reduce future
dependence on imported sawn timber, and generate revenues
for further forestry development.
To achieve these objectives, the project would consist of:
(a) the establishment of a permanent unit within DEFC
responsible for strategic planning and programming, and
administration and control of sectoral finances, with
material, logistieal And technical support;
*                      (b)  the establishment and maintenance of a 3,800 ha teak
sawlog plantation in the TAma Forest Reserve;
(c) the establishment and maintenance of 410 ha of pilot
plantations within Toui and Lama Reserves to test improved
species and sources of seed, establishment and maintenance
techniques, and charcoaling methods; and
(d) the execution of studies in support of the formulation of
a forestry strategy, improved plantation establishment and
preparation of possible future forestry development projects.        -
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomlance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wold Bank authoration.I



- ii -
Benefits
and Risks:    The project would result in reorganizing the DEFC so that it
could formulate and execute Government's policy for the
forestry sector. This would include planning and executing
programs of reforestation as well as controlling forestry
exploitation and managing revenues generated by forestry
activity. The industrial plantations established would produce
a total of 1.8 million m3 of sawn wood, poles and fuel wood and
help Benin limit imports of sawn wood after the year 2015 when
substantial deficits would otherwise be expected. The project
does not face abnormal technical or managerial risks.



- iii -
Estimated Costs 1/
US$ million      -
Local      Foreign      Total
Strengthening DEFC                  0.20       0.82          1.02
Teak Plantation                     2.56       4-75         7.31
Pilot Plantations                   0.20       0.38         0.58
Total Base Costs               2.96       5-95         8.91
Phys^ial Contingencies        0.21        0.43         0.65
Price Contingencies            1.53       1.87         3.40
Total Costs
(including taxes and duties)     4.70        8.26        12.96
Taxes and Duties                    1.41        -            1.41
Total Costs (net of taxes)          3.29       8.26         11.55
Financing Plan
- US$ million
Local      Foreign      Total
IDA Special Fund Credit        1.00        1.80        2.80
IDA                           1.10         1.46        2.56
FRG                            0           5.00        5.00
Government                    2.60          -          2.60
Total                    4.70         8.26       12.96
Estimated Disbursement
(US$ million)
IDA FIsal Year  F9B5  F9B6  EY7   88  P89  F190  P1  P92
Jmnil          0.5  0.6  1.0  1.1   1.0  0.7   04   0.1
Cw2uative      0.5  1.1  2.1  3.2  4.2  4.9  5.3   5.4
Economic Rate of Return:   14.5 percent
Appraisal Report:          4687-BEN dated Way 29, 1984
Aap:          IBRD 17325
V/  Cost estimates are based on the exchange rate of US$1=CFAF 392 prevailing
at the time of negotiations in November 1983.



INTERIATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EKECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN FOR A FORESTRY PROJECT
1. *     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit and Special Fund Credit to t,he People's Republic of Benin for an
amount in various currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 2.5 million
(US$2.6 million) and Special Drawing Rights 2.6 million (US$2.8 million),
respectively, on standard IDA terms to help finance a Forestry Project.
AdditLoJnal financing for the project would be provided on a parallel basis by
4he ?ederal Republic of Germany (FRG) for the equivalent of US$5 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 46B6-BEN) was circu-
lated to the Executive Directors in April 1984. The paragraphs below are
based upon this report and other information that has since become avail-
able. Annex I provides basic country data.
Political Background
3.       After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized by
frequent changes in Government prevailed in. Baein until the revolution in
1972, which brought to power the military Government of Lieutenant-Colonel
Kerekou. The country has since then enjoyed a comparatively long period of
political stability under a one-party system. Following the adoption of a new
constitution, President Kerekou was confirmed in 1980 as head of a largely
civilian Government.
Structure of the Economy
*        4.        Benin is a small, poor nation with a population of 3.5 million and an
estimated 1982 per capita GDP of US$280. Agriculture, the most important
sector of the economy, employs three-fourths of the active population and
accounts for 40 percent of GDP and 36 percent of foreign exchange earnings.
There is a small industrial sector consisting of a few import substitution and
agricultural processing plants. It contributed an estimated 11 percent to GDP
in 1982. The tertiary sector is dominated by trade and transit activities
that link economic activity in Benin to conditions existing in neighboring
economies.
5.       The agricultural sector is predominantly foodorop oriented, producing
maize, sorghum, yams, cassava, beans and small quantities of rice. Benin, at
present, enjoys an overall food surplus; it is estimated that a significant
portion of domestic fooderop output (perhaps as much as 20 percent) is



exported unofficially to Nigeria and Niger. This offsets Benin's foodgrain
imports which have been rising in recent years. The main export crops are
palm oil, cotton and peanuts. Cotton, which is well-suited environmentally to
conditions in northern Benin, is rising in importance while oil palm in the
south is in relative decline because of insufficient rainfall.
6.       The production of petroleum, cement and sugar which have significant
export potential began recently. For cement and sugar, however, major market-
ing hurdles will need to be cleared to permit export sales to take place,
particularly to Nigeria.
Recent Economic Developments
7.       Real GDP growth during 1978-1982 averaged about 5 percent per annum,
up substantially from the 0.7 percent annual average during the 1972-76
period. Growth appears to have been strong in 1977, 1981 and 1982 when there
were sharp increases in construction, manufacturing, trade activity and public
administration. This growth was linked to the heavy public investment program
and to strong growth in commercial activities due to the oil boom in Nigeria
and the uranium boom in Niger. Agriculture, on the other hand, consistently
grew at less than one percent per annumi between 1970 and 1975, and then at an
average rate of 2 percent between 1976 and 1981. Agricultural performance
improved substantially in 1982 and 1983 with a sharp rise in cotton output
attributable to higher producer prices and the availability of modern inputs.
8.       During the mid-seventies, the Government expanded its presence in the
modern sector of the economy by nationalizing the major industrial enterprises
as well as extending its involvement in the agricultural sector. The First
Development Plan (1977-1980) went further by investing in three large
projects:  Seme Petroleum, Save Sugar and Onigbolo Cement. This policy of
greater Government involvement has determined the course of the recent evolu-
tion of public finance, external debt, and external balance.
9.       Until the late seventies, the Government maintained a conservative
public finance posture. Tight control over expenditure resulted in current
budget surpluses, which averaged 31 percent of revenues between 1977 and
1979. Modest foreign borrowing financed the limited public investment
program. More recently, the public finance current surplus has been
declining, partially because of rising current expenditures, about three-
fourths of which are wages and salaries. The other factor contributing to
this decline is the weakened revenue base. Over half of the revenues are
derived from import duties, of which a significant proportion. is levied on
imports re-exported (officially or unofficially) to Nigeria and Niger. The               W
downturn in economic activities in these neighboring countries has reduced
demand and limited the inflow of dutiable goods that transit through Benin.
In consequence, the current budget surplus fell to about 5 percent of revenues
in 1983.
10.     Public enterprise financing also poses a problem for Government
finanees. Two-thirds of the 60 public enterprises in Benin are in financial
difficulties. Losses have been financed by the state-owned banks, rather than
through transfers from the budget. As many of these advances cannot now be



- 3 -
repaid, the Government, either as shareholder or as banker, will have to cover
these deficits. Public enterprise difficulties have stemmed from poor initial
project design, undercapitalization, inexperienced business management, inade-
quate Government pricing and personnel policies, and other inefficiencies. In
1982, the Govy-nment announced a series of measures to strengthen the public
enterprises, including more realistic pricing policies, better incentives for
managers and workers, tougher controls, and the liquidation of non-viable
units. A program is now being prepared (see para. 22) to support these deci-
sions.
1 1.     In the external sector the growth of exports has been modest while
imports have grown rapidly, mainly because of capital imports associated with
the major public investments. In 1981, the resulting current account deficit
reached 34 percent of GDP as the investment ratio reached 35 percent of GDP.
The current account deficit remained equally high in 1982 owing mainly to
further capital imports associated with an investment ratio of 32 percent.
Financing came mainly from external loans, principally supplier credits and
long-term official leading.
12.      External indebtedness and debt service obligations have therefore
grown rapidly. The stock of external debt disbursed and outstanding which was
US$193 million at end-1980 rose to US$600 million at end-1983. Simultaneously
with this rapid growth of the debt stock, there occurred a relative hardening
of the average loan terms. As a result, debt service as a percentage of
exports rose from 7 percent in 1981 to 25 percent two years later. Owing to
the weakened revenue situation and the start-up problems of the cement and
sugar projects, all the debt service due in 1982 and 1983 were not met. At
end-1983, payment arrears stood at about US$43 million.
Policy Changes ar.d Future Prospects
13.      Confronted by many problems, the Government has begunL to eliminate
economic distortions and to lay the foundation for growth. Agricultural
producer prices are being raised, and input subsidies are being eliminated in
a planned fashion. Major reforms have been decided in the pricing, personnel
and management policies affecting public enterprises, and some marginal enter-
prises have been closed. In addition, the Government has decided that its
direct involvement in productive activities will be reduced and that private
capital will be accorded a greater role in the development process. These
0       policy changes, which are reflected in the new medium-term Development Plan
(1983-1987) should lay the basis for more vigorous growth in the longer term.
*       14.       Benin's growth performance over the medium term will be limited by
several constraints which make it unlikely that GDP will grow by more than an
average of 3 to 4 percent per year during the 1982-90 period, even taking the
Seme oil output into account. Key constraints include the slowdown in demand
in neighboring countries and the poor initial performance of the cement and
sugar projects.



15.      The public finAnce situation is likely to remain difficult in the
years ahead due to the recurrent cost implications of recent major invest-
ments, the need to re-finance a number of public enterprises, and the external
debt problem. On the revenue side, the buoyancy in import duties over the
last few years associated with goods re-exported to neighboring countries is
not likely to continue in the mid-1980s. The exploitation of Sem'e oil is not
expected to make even a modest contribution to fiscal resources until 1986.
Import duties are projected to continue providing slightly over half of total
Central Government revenues.
16.      Benin's balance of payments is difficult to project because of the                p
large size of unrecorded exports. It is estimated, however, that the current
account deficit in relation to GDP will decrease during the rest of the
1980s. This results from expected new exports of petroleum, cement and sugar
by 1985 and from a decline in the real value of capital imports from the high
levels of 1981-82, following completion of the cement and sugar projects. The
foreign borrowings that financed the three recent industrial projects (see
para. 8) rapidly raised the stock of debt outstanding and debt service obliga-
tions. As a result of a more modest level of public investment, fewer loans
will be required in the near-term. Therefore debt service ratios should begin
to stabilize, although at a higher level than in the past. The ratio is
projected to remain at about the 25 percent level through 1990. To address
the financial disequilibrium in general, the Beninese authorities have begun a
dialogue with the IMF in the hope that this will result in an IMF-supported
stabilization program.
17.      Benin remains a very poor country with large needs for directly pro-
ductive investment and supporting infrastructure. Its increased debt burden
due to heavy foreign borrowing in support of public investments will constrain
future access to commercial loans.  The Government has recognized the need to
mobilize increased concessionary financing from bilateral and multilateral
sources, as reflected in the Donors' Roundtable Conference convened in Narch
1983. In view of Benin's poverty and the inability of public savings to
finance more than 5-10 percent of the future public investment program, the
country will continue to need foreign financing on concessionary terms.
Foreign donors should provide a large share of total project costs, including,
if possible, the financing of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN I
18.      To date there have been nineteen IDA credits to Benin, including two
supplementary credits, totalling US$182.47 million.  Five of the credits were              q
for agriculture, seven for road construction and maintenance, two for educa-
tion, two for energy, and one each for port expansion, urban water supply and
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises. Annex II contains a
simmary statement of Bank group operations in Benin as of March 31, 1984.
19.      In the past, the Bank Group's dialogue with Benin was limited and
based on a case-by-case approach to lending operations. More recently, how-
ever, the policy and lending dialogue has intensified and Government has



-5-
displayed considerable interest in and responsiveness to Bank lending and
policy assistance.
20.      A large proportion of Bank assistance to Benin's developmeat so far
has been in the agricultural sector. IDA's earlier operations in this sector
met with mixed Buccess and, in fact, during the execution of an IDA-FAC Zou-
Borgou credit for cotton development made in 1972, cotton production actually
fell. In 1977, a technical assistance credit was approved to help the Govern-
ment better prepare rural development projects. The assistance provided by
this credit was instrumental in preparing the Borgou, Zou and Atacora provin-
cial rural development projects. Under the Borgou project, for which a US$17
million IDA credit was approved in April 1981, cotton production in the Borgou
province doubled in the 1982-83 season and sharply increased again in the
1983-1984 campaign. The Zou Project (FY83 IDA US$20 million) is noteworthy
for the fact that it includes financing of fertilizer imports on a declining
scale as a response to the Government decision to phase out fertilizer sub-
sidies and reduce pesticide subsidies. The rural development project in
Atacora Province, appraised by the Bank, was financed by a US$6 million credit
from the Internaticnal Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).
21.      In the transport sector, Bank involvement began with e Land Transport
Study which led to the financing of a four-year Highway laintenance Project
beginning in 1969-1970. Since then, the bank group has financed three highway
projects, three feeder roads projects and a port extension project. In gene-
ral, these projects were satisfactorily completed with actual economic rates
of return comparing favorably with appraisal estimates. In the case of the
Third Highway Project however, the project completion report notes that
institutional development objectives were only partially met. The Third
Feeder Roads Project was approved on Nay 29, 1984.
22.      Following the Government's decision in 1982 to proceed with the
reform of public enterprises, it requested Bank group support in the public
enterprise sector. Discussions in progress are expected to lead to agreement
on specific policies for this sector. An IDA credit to finance detailed
studies needed to prepare individual enterprise rehabilitation programs, and
to finance the execution of these programs is under preparation. A second
project under preparation is a Technical Assistance effori designed to
strengthen Benin' s macroeconomic planning and public finance management.
Other assistance to Benin is expected to continue in the transport, education,
urban and energy sectors. In the energy sector, the Seme Oilfield Phase II
Development Project is to be considered in June 1984 and the Nangbeto Hydro-
e'ectric Project to be implemented jointly by Benin and Togo, will be
presented to the Board in the near future.
23.      Benin's performance with respect to project implementation and dis-
bursement is generally satisfactory, and the Government is quite familiar with
the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. Delays are sometimes
encountered, however, because of the Government inability to make timely
contributions of counterpart funds, a problem which has been exacerbated by
the difficult budgetary situation.



PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Forestry Resourcec and Use
24.      About 60% of Benin's area of 11.2 million ha is covered with forest
and bush of varying densities. Most of the productive natural semi-deciduous
high forests and gallery forests have been destroyed and converted to less
productive savannah woodlands by farmers. There remains today no more than
0.9 million ha of commercially exploitable forests in remnant islands in the
central west, and to a lesser degree in the central south, capable of yielding
timber suitable for sawnwood and veneer production. These forests continue to
be infiltrated and degraded by farmers. The savannah woodlands are estimated
to carry between 5 m3 and 25 m3 per hectare and have an important ecological
and economic role to play. In addition to natural woodlands, Benin contains
about 7,000 ha of teak plan:ations, between 9 and 32 years of age. These have
not been regularly thinned or maintained in the past, but represent a valuable
resource. Scattered small private teak plantations also exist in the southern
zone of the country, although no systematic inventory of these plantations has
been made.
25.      Benin's current consumption of sawn wood is about 23,000 m3 per year,
of which 12,000 m3 or 52% is imported.  The remainder is currently supplied
from exploitation of natural forests. Consumption of large and small poles is
currently about 17,000 m3 per year of which 10,000 m3 or 58% is supplied by
private exploitation of natural forests: 2,000 m3 or 12% by private teak
plantations; and 5,000 m3 or 30% from thinings resulting from improved manage-
ment of state-owned teak plantations. Demand for sawnwood and poles is
expucted to grow in proportion to growth in Benin's urban population to about
102,000 m3 per annum by about 2010. With good management of existing teak
plantations, and modest intensification of the exploitation of natural wood-
lands, projected demand up to about 2015 could be covered with Beninese pro-
duction. This would reduce the role of imports to supplying specialty wood
aad processed wood products.  Benin is expected to have annual deficits in
sawnL wood and poles of about 70,000 m3 after 2015. This would lead to in-
creased imports and over-exploitation of natural forests. However, the
project would support establishment of about 4,000 ha of new teak plantations,
whose production would significantly reduce these deficits.
26.      About 2.7 million m3 of fuelwood are consumed annually in Benin, of
which 2.4 million m3 is used in small towns and rural areas. Traditional
exploitation of local fallow lands and woodlands now supplies rural consump-
tion needs and is expected to be able to meet the future rural demand. Demand
for fuelwood in the southern urban areas of about 0.3 million m3 is supplied
from intensive exploitation of natural woodlands and fallow adjoining the road
network up to 200 km to the north of 1.otonou and Porto Novo. Annual urban
consumption is expected to reach 0.65 million m3 by 2000 and 1.4 million m3 by
2020. This will put considerable pressure on tree growth in areas which are
already heavily farmed and populated. Government plans to establish fuelwood
plantations in this region as part of its effort to assure future fuelwood
supplies, but will also need to develop a more broad strategy for overall
fuelwood regeneration, including improved management of natural woodlands and



-7-
afforestation in the north. The proposed project would assist in developing
this strategy.
Institutions and Training
27.      The Ministry of State Farms, Livestook and Fisheries (MFEEP) ia
responsible for all aspects of the forestry sector. In prinoiple, it executes
its responsibilities for legislation, planning and management of the forestry
resources through the Direction des Eaux, Foret Chasse (DEFC). Sooial and
rural forestry projects, which are oomparatively small at present, are
executed jointly with the provincial CARDERs, which fall under the administra-
tive responability of the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Aotion.
Until 1982, a state society reporting to KFEEP, the SociWte Natlonale pour le
Developpement Forestier (SNAFOR), undertook forest exploLtation, saumilling,
marketing and reforestation, on Government's account. Hc..ever, the two major
aspects of SNAFOR's mendate, forestry exploitation as a private company, and
forestry regeneration in the public interest, proved difficult to reconcile
since the financial and managerial demands of these tasks are different.
Eventually, SNAFOR became over-extended financLally because of its regenera-
tion work and was dissolved. With a recent change in policy, Government hap
since transferred responsibility for overseeing reforestation to DEFC. The
remaining SNAFOR responsibilities have been assigned to a new commercially
orientated state company, the Office National du BoiB (ONAB). Forestry
research is carried out by the Direction de la Recherche Agronomigue (DRA)
under the auspices of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientifie Research
(MESRS), in liaison with DEFC.
28.      DEFC employs or liaises with about 150 professional and technical
staff in the forestry sector. However, its present headquarter's staff is
generally inexperienced, and its organization is fragmented with all services
reporting directly to the Director. As the office of the Director imposes
heavy commitments on the incumbent as an advisor to the Minister, his ability
to manage and direct to the staff is limited. Funding is irregular and
inadequate for normal operations. As a result, DEFC's ability to develop
sound policy advice on one hand, and satisfactorily guide and advise field
staff on forestry monitoring and control on the other, has been seriously
limited. While the policy to transfer responsibility for reforestation to
DEFC is sound, in order to make the policy operational, it has been found
necessary to organize separate project units to manage reforestation
projects.  This has further fragmented control and management within DEFC.
This situation presents a serious risk to the remaining - -estry resources and
Government now recognizes that developing a coherent forestry strategy, proper
administration and monitoring of forestry exploitation and reforestation
programs, is critical.   Strenightening DEFC would be a necessary first step in
affecting req-ired reforms.
29.      The ONAB has assumed the commercially oriented functions of SNAFOR,
including forest exploitation, processing and marketing of wood and wood
products. It continues to employ a.majority of SNAFOR's forestry exploitation
staff, and has received substantial assistance from the Federal Republic of
Germany.  its workshops, garages, and office buildings ha"e been significantly
improved as a result of this as3istance, and ONAB has begun mechanized forest



- 8 -
clearing to establish sawlog plantations. Government has now formally created
ONAB with an appropriate decree, is recruiting senior management personnel,
and arranging for adequate working capital for the company.
30.      Most Beninese forestry staff are currently trained out-ide of Benin.
Professional forestry staff are presently being educated at the Forestry
Faculty at the University of Ibadan, Nigeria and senior technical staff are
educated at the Institute of Agriculture, Bouake, Ivory Coast. Forestry
controllers are trained within Benin at the Agricultural Polytechnic, Sekou.
These latter persons are employed mainly in rural forestry carried out by the
CARDERs. Total staff employed in the sector number about 150, of which only
10 are professional or senior technical grades. Thus, with the return of the
3 professional foresters and several senior technicians now in. training in
Nigeria and Ivory Coast, the level of formal training among staff in Benin's
forestry institutions will improve.
Forestry Policy and Strategy
31.      The major objectives of Government's forestry policy are to ensure
adequate supplies of wood and wood products, to promote small and medium-scale
forestry industries, and to manage forest resources using sound environmental
practices.  Government has attempted to translate this policy into practice
through rural and village tree planting schemes, and reducing uncontrolled
exploitation of natural woodlands by the establishment of plantations. Among
its regeneration projects, Government has begun a 3,500 ha plantation of poles
and fuelwood in the coastal zone and 2,500 ha of fuelwood plantations in the
most seriously degraded part of the Lana Forest Reserve, supported by the
African Development Bank. In addition, smaller rural forestry plantationr are
being planned for various locations in northern provinces to be supportee by
the United Nations Sudan-Sahel Office (UNSo), FAO and bilateral volunteer
groups. However, as a result of DEFC's inability to perform its functions
adequately, monitoring and control of forestry exploitation has not been fully
satisfactory, and regeneration pr^grams have not been coordinated or linked
systematically to emerging needs for wood, forestry resource management or
environmental protection. Approaches taken in execution, and costs of these
projects have also varied and funding arrangements for most forestry sector
activities have been mainly based on external finance. However, Government
has not complemented this funding with a financially sound approach to the
assessment and collection of fees and royalties.
32.      As a first step towards strengthening its strategy making and imple-
mentation process, Government has clarified the mandate of DEFC, giving it
most of the responsibility for managing the public interest in the forestry
sector, including forestry regeneration. However, strengthening DEFC to the
point where it can exercise all of these responsibilities will require a
period of transition from its present status, which will include regrouping of
staff; establishing new working relationships with ONAB, and other parts of
Government; and developing financing systems that are viable in the long
run. The project would aid this transition.



-9-
IDA Involvement in the Sector
33.      The project would be the IDA's first direct involvement in the
forestry sector of Benin, and is in line with the Forestry Sector Policy of
IDA which confirms that sawlog plantations would be given equal importance
with smaller-scale social forestry projects, and that strengthenLng sectoral
institutions would be of paramount importance. Indirectly, IDA has helped
rural forestry through its support of the CARDERs, which have administrative
control over this activity, under the Borgou and Zou Provinces Rural Develop-
ment Projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.      The project was identified by an IDA sector mission in November.1981,
based on work completed by UNDP!FAO and the Federal Republic of Germany. The
project was prepared by a World Bank(FlO Cooperative Program team beginning in
October 1982, and was appraised by IDA with the participation of the ERG in
Narch 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1983. The
Beninese delegation was led by Nr. Alidou Boukary, Ninister of State Farms,
Livestock and nisher.es. Details of the project are contained in the Staff
Appraisal Report No. 4687-BEN, dated February 3, 1984 which is circulated
separately. Key events and special conditions are listed separately in Annex
III of this report.
Project Objectives and Description
35.      The principal objectives of the project are to:
(a) reorganize and increase the technical capacity of the DEFC, to
increase its effectiveness in (i) collection and use of basic infor-
mation for the formulation of an appropriate forestry strategy, (ii)
planning, coordinating and executing programs to implement the
strategy and (iii) design and administration of fiscal measures
influencing the forestry sector; and
(b)  execute an industrial plantations program to reduce future dependence
on imported sawn timber, and p-inerate revenues for further forestry
q                  development.
36.      To achieve these objectives, the project would consist of:
(a)  the establishment of a permanent unit within DEFC responsible for
strategic planning and programming, and administration and control of
sectoral finances, supported by about 96 man-months of specialist
services in the areas of forestry planning and administration, and
financial control not available in the country, and provided with
vehicles, equipment and operating funds;
(b) the establishment and maintenance of a 3,B00 ha teak sawlog planta-
tion in the Lama Forest Reserve by DEFC through a contract with the



- 10 -
Office Wational du Bois (ONAB), including provision for 120 man
months of specialist services in the areas of plantation management
and mechanics, 10 man-years of specialized training in forest
clearing, plantation establishment and maintenance, and mechanics;
(e) the establishment and maintenance of 4 0 ha of pilot plantations
within Toni and Lama Reserves to test improved species and sources of
seed, establishment and maintenance techniques, and charcoaling
methods; and
(d)  the execution of studies in support of the elaboration of a forestry
strategy, improved plantation establishment, and preparation of
possible future forestry development projects.
Project Implementation
37.      DEFC would assume overall responsibility for project execution, and
would sub-contract with ONAB for the establishment of the Lama plantation and
sign a convention with the DRL of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scien-
tific Research (NESRS) for the establishment of the pilot plantations. Under
this arrangement, DEPC would exercise its new responsibilities for forestry
regeneration, while not undertaking field level responsibilities prematurely.
Meanwhile, DEFC would evolve towards a structure more conducive to successful
execution of its long-term mandate.  The Director of DEFC would be the Project
Director.
38.      Institutional Reform. For the period of the project, various func-
tions within DEEC now being performed inadequately and independently, in areas
of monitoring of forestry exploitation, reforestation, legislative advice,
research and administration and personnel, would be grouped into a new
Advisory/Policy Unit. This would reduee the number of units reporting
directly to the Director from eight to five. The Unit would be led by an
internationally recruited Senior Advisor who would report to the Director of
DEFC. This arrangement would integrate the functions necessary for the
elaboration of a sound forestry strategy, and increase operational guidance
and control of staff and resources. Financial and administrative functions
would be exercised by the Unit under the guidance of an internationally
recruited Financial Controller. This would permit close linking of financial
and budgetary management to planning and programming while DEFC's management
structure was evolving.  Both internationally recruited experts would have
experience, qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to IDA (Section
3.02 of both tae draft DCA and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement-SFCA).
The Unit would assist the Director to monitor all ongoing reforestation
projects to assure that this experience was considered in formulating future
strategy. With experience gained during the execution of the project, the DEFC
would be expected eventually to undergo a further re.organization, in which the
four principal functions of planning and programming, financial management and
control, state plantation establishment and organization of rural forestry
might become full services.  However, plans for further reorganization would
be made only after a mid-term evaluation of progress in project execution had
been concluded, as part of the preparation of possible follow-up project.



- 11 -
39.      Plantations.  The Lama sawlog plantation would be executed by ONAB,
which would serve as a eontractor for the planting and maintenance of the
trees, on the account of DEFC. Government would own the trees planted during
the project. A contract between DEFC and OAB covering the establishment of
the Laam Plantation would provide inter alia for annual work programming and
budgeting, establishment of a plantation steering committee which would make
key staffing and other operational decisions,and definition of the financial
obligations of both parties, including disposition of the revenues aceruing to
sz,~vage logging during the plantation establishment period. Signature of such
a contraet, acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(draft DCA, Section 6.01(d) and draft SFCA, Se-tion 6.01(c)). DEFC would
prepare annual work plans and budgets by December 31 of each year with the
first being submitted for IDA approval within 6 months following signature
(Section 3.07(c) of both the draft DCA and the draft SFCA). DEFC would
monitor the execution of the plantation and the accounts of OAB, and OAB
would, as part of the contract, agree to modify its accounting system by
December 1984 to satisfy DEFC's requirements (Section 3.04(d) of both the
draft DCA and the draft SFCA).
40.      Tne pilot plantations would be established by research personnel
under a convention to be signed by DEFC and DRA of the MES3S. The conventicn
aeceptable to IDA would specify technical details of planting programs and
administrative responsibilities of DRA, and financial obligations of DEFC.
Signature of the convention would be a condition of disbursement for this
component (Section 3.05 and Schedule 1, para 4(b) of both the draft DCA and
the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
41.      The Head of DEFC's Advisory/Policy Unit would establish procedures,
in consultation -with ONAB officials, for monitoring progress in project
supported planvations, as a basis for annual work plnnning and budgeting. His
plan would be prepared and submitted to IDA for approval within six months
after his arrival in post (Section 3.07(a) of both the draft DCA and the draft
SFCA). The Financial Controller in DEFC's Advisory/Policy Unit would
establish procedures for monitoring project expenditures. He would submit his
plan to IDA for approval within three months after his arrival in post
(Section 3.07(b) of both the draft DCA and the draft SFCA). Periodic evalua-
tion of progress would be made by the Advisory/Policy Unit for action by the
respective plantation managers. In the latter half of the third project year,
DEFC would hire consultants to make a general evaluation of the project's
progress, which would form a basis for enunciation of a forestry strategy and
the preparation of possible follow-up assistance to the sector. Analysis of
the progress made in all plantation activities under DEFC's control would be
in-orporated into the review.
Project Costs and Financing
42.      The total cost of the project (based on March 1983 prices) is esti-
mated to be US$13.0 million, including US$1.4 million of identifiable taxes.
However, Government has advised that goods imported and purchased for the -
project would be exempted from import taxes.  Foreign exchange costs amount to
USS8.3 million or 64 percent of total project costs (71 percent of total
project costs net-of-taxes).  Physical and prices contingencies account for



_ 12 -
about 45 percent of project base costs, and are based on expected domestic
inflation of 11 percent per year, and international inflation of 8.0 percent
in 1983; 7.5 percent in 1984; 7.0 percent in 1985; and 6.0 percent in 1986 and
1987.
43.      The proposed project -ould be financed by an IDA Credit (US$2.6
million) an IDA Special Fund Credit (US$2.8 million), financing from the
Federal Republic of Germany equivalent to USS5.0 million and a Government
contribution equivalent to US$1.2 million. The IDA and IDA Special Fund
credits would be made available on standard IDA terms. About USS3.8 million
equivalent of the FRG financing would be channelled through [reditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KFW) as a loan on terms similar to IDAs, and US$1.2 million
equivalent would be channelled through the Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusanmenarbeit GmbH (GTZ) as a grant. The fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the FRG financing would be a condition of
IDA and Special Fund Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (c) of both the draft
DCA and the draft SFCA). External financing would cover all foreign costs
(US$8.3 million) and US$2.1 million of local costs net-of-taxes. IDA and the
IDA Special Fund would finance works at the Lana teak plantation in parallel
with FRG, which would finance vehicles, equipment, consultancies and training
for this component. IDA and IDA Special Fund would finance long and short
term consultancies, vehicles and equipment for the remaining project compon-
ents. Government, IDA and IDA Special Fund would cofinance the Lana planta-
tion establishment costs, including local personnel in the ratio of 78:22.
44,      Proceeds of the IDA and IDA Special Fund Credits and Government's
contribution would be made available to DEFC for futher allocation (i) to ONAB
under the terms of the execution contract for establishment of the Lama Plan-
tation (US$4.6 million), (ii) to DRA for the establishment of pilot planta-
tions (USS0.7 million) and (iii) for DEFC operations supported by the project
(USS1.3 million). The FRG contribution (US$5.0 million) would be onlent
through Government directly to ONAB. Government contributions would be
channeled through a Project Advance Account to be established at the Caisse
AutoLome d'Amortissement (CAA), with an initial Government deposit of CFAF 32
million (USS82,000). Establishing this account with the initial deposit would
be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of both the draft DCA
and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). At effectiveness, IDA and IDA
Special Fund would deposit amounts totalling US$350,000 equivalent into two
specia' accounts to be opened at CAA by the Government (Section 6.01(a) of
both the draft DCA and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement) to bring the
amount available for project management to an equivalent of four months'
project costs excluding FRG participation but including Government's contri-
bution. Government would replenish the Project Advance Account to its
original level every four months in advance (Section 3.01(b) of both the draft
DCA and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
Procurement and Disbursement
45.      Goods and services for the LaTn teak plantation financed by FRG
amounting to US$5.0 million, would be procured following PRG procedures. Of
the remaining US$6.6 million, being financed by IDA, IDA Special Fund, and
Governnent, contracts of over US$100,000 principally for the purchase of
vehicles, equipment, machinery and building materials would be through inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA Guidelines subject to the
eligibility restrictions applicable to the contracts financed by the Special
Fund Credit. Contracts of less than US$100,000 but more than US$50,000 would
be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable
to IDA, and contracts for less than US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of
quotations from not less than three reputable suppliers.  Contracts for 108
man-months of specialist services and consultancies to be financed by IDA,
would be awarded following the Guidelines For Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers. Construction of housing, offices, workshops and tracks for the
Lama plantation, valued at US$0.3 million would be executed on force account
by OXAB and financed by IDA. About US$3.3 million expenditures would be made
for machinery and vehicle operating costs (IDA; US$2.9 million) following
local procurement procedures. Incremental local staff services valued at
USSO.7 million would be acquired by Government following established local
recruitment practices.
46.      The IDA and Special Fund Credits would be disbursed over a seven-year
period, and would be applied as follows to eligible project expenditures:
(i)  100 percent of eligible expenses for vehicles, equipment, and long-
and short-term consultants services for DEFC, for a total value of
USS1.32 million; and
(ii)  78 percent of eligible operating and establishment costs of-the
plantations for a total of US$2.8 million, and eligible operating
costs of DEFC for a total of US$0.21 million.
About US$0.57 million would be unallocated. About US$0.35 million would be
disbursed as the special advance (para 45) and US$0.15 million would repay the
PPF. Disbursement for most expenditures for vehicles, equipment, building
materials and consultants services would be against full documentation.
Disbursement for expenditures for vehicle and machinery operations plantation
establishment, and civil works executed on force account would be against
certificates of expenditure, with supporting documentation retained by DEFC
for periodic review by IDA supervision missions.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
47.      DEFC would keep summary accounts for all project components, with
ONAB keeping accounts for the Lama plantation under DEFC supervision. DEFC's
project accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
within six months after the close of the respective fiseal years (Section 4.01
(c) of both the draft DCA and the draft S7CA). ONAB and DRA would submit
quarterly reports to DEFC. These arrangements would be specified in the
contract and convention governing project execution signed by the parties.



- 14 -
Production, Markets and Finan-ial Results
48.      Production of wood would begin during the investment period, since
land clearing in preparation for planting of teak would yield up to 76,000 m3
of salvage sawlogs, poles and firewood over the period PY1-PY5, or about
15,200 m3 annu^-lly. Of this, 3,800 m3 annual production of sai:ogs and poles
would be equal so about 10 percent of the estimated sawlog and pole production
of 1982, and the 11,400 m3 firevood production would be equal to about 4
percent of urban fuelwood consumption in 1982. Between P16 and PY25 annual
production from the project's plantation thinning program would grow from a
rate of 10,800 m3 per year to 25,200 m3 per year. Most of this production
would be poles and fuelwood whieh would be readily absorbed in local markets.
Final thinning and cutting of mature trees would begin in PY30 and would yield
about 95,000 m3 anmually over about 15 years. For this period, Benin would
otherwise be expected to have an annual deficit of about 116,000 m.3 of sawlogs
and poles or about 60 percent of projected demand.
49.      Markets for sawn wood in Benin are competitive and concentrated in
Cotonou and Porto Novo. Domestic prices for sawn wood are determined in
international trade for wood of similar sizes and suitabilities for different
uses. These prices are expected to rise at an annual rate of about 1%, in
real terms to the maturity of the project plantations. Markets for poles and
fuel wood are also competitive and concentrated in Benin's southern zones.
Production resulting from the project would be sold in local markets, at
prevailing prices. The volume of wood sold, while significant, is not
expected to depress prices. DEFC would advise Government on its marketing
strategy whi-h would include estimations of cutting fees (stumpage fees) that
Government should charge for the wood that would allow Government to recover
its net investment in plantations, and an appropriate rate of interest on
investment. A preliminary estimate of these cutting fees, based on expected
establishment costs and a 10 percent rate of interest in real terms, indicates
that cutting fees would be sufficiently below the projected value of the
standing plantation wood to give future loggers an acceptable profit on their
operations. With such stumpage fees, Government would enjoy positive annual
cash flows after PY3, and a positive cummulative cash flow after PY6. To
manage this revenue, DEFC would define procedures and criteria for the estab-
lishbent of a forestry fund to finance future forestry regeneration.
Benefits and Risks
50.      The readily quantified benefit of the project would be the production
of 1.8 million m.3 of timber, most of which would become available when Benin
would otherwise be dependent on imports for 60 percent of its consumption of
sawn wood and poles.  In addition, significant non-quantifiable benefits would
derive from the institution building to be undertaken, leading to the formula-
tion of a rational forestry strategy for the country and the establishment of
a DEFC capable of executing it.



- 15 -
51.      The project's economic rate of return is estimated to be about 15
percent, taking into account only quantifiable benefits of wood production and
total project costs, less the cost of technical assistance and local staff
training. This rate of return is only marginally sensitive to changes in
assumptions concerning future wood prices, yield variations, timing of execu-
tion, and changes in basic costs. A combination of these factors leading to a
39 percent increase in cost or a 28 percent decrease in benefits would be
required to reduce the economic rate of return to 12 percent, which would
still be acceptable for a forestry project.
52.      There are no major risks to the project.  Normal risks of fire in the
zone have been accounted for by project design and selection of a species
which is fire resistant. Planting and management tecbniques to be employed
have been successfully employed else-where in Western Africa.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.      The draft Development Credit Agreement  between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Association, the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement between
the People' s Republic of Benin and the Association as Administrator of the
Special Fund established with funds contributed by certain members of the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
54.      Special conditions of the proposed project are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement and the Special Fund Agreement would be: (i) the signing of a
contract between DEFC and ONAB acceptable to IDA; (ii) the opening, with the
initial deposit, of the Project Advance Account; (iii) the opening of two
special accounts at CAA; (iv) effectiveness of the KFV Loan Agreement and GTZ
Agreement (Section 6.01 of both the draft DCA and the draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement). A special condition of disbursement against the eligible
costs of the pilot plantations would be the signature of a convention, accep-
table to IDA, between DEFC and DRA of the XESRS (para 40).
55.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Arti-
ales of Agreement of the Association and the proposed Special Fund Credit
would comply with Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of October 26, 1982 of the Executive
Directors.
r        56.       I re ommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit
and Special Fund Credit.
A. V. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
, 1984



-16-                                    ANNEX I
Pa-ge1- -of 4
BENIR
muffs - ~~SOCIA HOZCAtuaS DATA slow?
-N                                  MLuSA" GROUPS (MLwLCEO aVAms) I&
ICsr                    CMST srUB UTINATE) lb
/bU  hIIJUA  RU
tneL   l   SraMbN EWs IS tIS'SScS.
knott  1970- ES'TLAh-       ARAS.W531              ARItCA S. OF SAIZA*A
16 CUSA1 SQ.  )
TOTAL                             11.L 6       12.$      112.4
AaReIOILORAL                       u.U        20.4        22.4
E I  capt CMSS)                      LO.0      L40.0       320.0             254.0                  1147.9
-M   cinsumnou PM Cnna
C(ILOM%MS UF COAL 0IUVALEAr)       35.0       55.0        70.0            7n.                      J1.2
uwramanAma  VITAL SnAiSsno
VOPULAXWSALU-TEAA (CutISASS)    0205.0      2659.0      3595.0
U03  P-OFLATEUMCZ (W OF  TAL)       9.S       12.4       14.               U.5                        5
UOPOLAION rQJCCrtOSs
PDflILAflS Ls TAR Mm0 (SILL)                             4.6
SwAnogcuf PuPUtATON (MILL)                              24.6
T    STATIONRZ Y .   A21
Vonotao 05115 
PEI 21. Ii.                       I.2       23.6        30.9              29.5   -                34.5
PE SQ.  . Act!. LA"             103.4      130.2       15.5              94.1                    131..
ruEiCEOL    AGE -SKCOB  C)
0-14 SiS                        44.t       4.53        I.t               45.0                    45.9
IS-" YwS                         53.3       52.0        St.l             52.1                     St.2
65 An  OVEC                       2.6        2.7         Z.8               2.9                     2.3
FOPOLATI  CDAva RAE (C)
TOTAL                             2.2 2b                 2.7               2.U                      2.8
01h                               S.8       5I4          4.1               4.2                     5.3
CRUDE UIMii wEtFIt  S TlOUS)       50.6       49.3        49.0              47.9                    47.4
CRODE cLAM  iaMc (PM rAU)          26.8       22.1,        7.1              19.2                    15.2
GaUSS 3  cranmUCrtoa RATE           3.         3 3-        3.2               2.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANRLG
Ama. ub -_ cw)                     ..
USEIES CZ OF naRitD  aI)           .. 
logo am snitto
[Ba UtF FOOD aRO. P11 CAITAL
(19-7l-lO0)                       95.0      10t.0       32.0               67.8                    95.7
FER CAA SSUnt Or
cawuss (Cor mW qoUtmnrnn)       100.0        97.0      103.0               .0                      97.1 -
IPROI  (CGAIM  EL DAY)           55.0       54.0       S5.0               S1.2                    56.0
or WaO  ANcIAL AMD PULSE        150         15.0       13.0_             18.1                     17.2
GS-D (AGO 1-4) DEam  Arc           49.0       41.Z        33.2              25.1                    23.4
LIFE  PECT. OST (YT  CleAnS)       37.2       42.1        49.9              41.4                    s5.9
INFANT  oirr. txm crc lwOS)       205.4      179.4       152.1             124.5                    117.0
ACCIESS 10 SAFE WATER (2CP)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       21.0              24.7                     25.4
us                                 ..         ..         2.0              54.*                     10.5
BAL                                ..         ..       6I.o               L.3                      12.1
ACCe6 TO EXCRTA OISPOSAI.
EX Or VOPLATICS)
Ot"                                ..       t4.0          Z, 2.1                                    ..L
tURBA                              ..        3.U          ..               4.7
RURAL                              ..        1.0          ..               21.9
rLtOIATl Pt rIYsicIAN    1e 330.0           21590.@    17050.0           242u.4                   U I.i
POP. PER dUtSIfi PERSN           27u0.O/d   2970.0     tslo.o            3454.2                   z92.U
POr. PE  HosPITAL am
rOTL                            730.0       fSO.O      730.0kt          1183.2                   0l7s.4
U0h                             540.0       230.0      i90.ia7r          80.4                    402.3
RURAL                           180.0      2ZO.0    LIZO.oic            3171.5                   3916.7
AmEtSStUlS PEA UWSPTMA   D.                    30.2       17.71/
AVERAIE Stal OF IIULSELO
rotaL                              ..          .....  
ORSJ                               ..          ..         .                     
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVELV  NO. UPF PEPSOIjOO-i
rotaL                              ..          .....  
URBANI                             ..          .....  
RURAL                              ..          .....- 
AcCSS nl tLECT. (2 OF UOf.LLIaGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
US                                 ..          ....-
glotA                              ..          ..         ..                . -s
__ _  _  _  _  _  __   _  _  _  _  . _   __  _  _  _   _  _  _  __   _ _  _  _  _  _  __   _  _  _   _  _  _



-17 -                                 ANNEX 1
Page- Z u$
NRltX                  - SOCIA. It'ICATORS DATA SHEIT
NIHl                                RUEXK'ICE CSkOPS (iIluIITj .LVL aS /a
HIOST                   ttHOST RECEAT CSTIMAIL) lb
/lb        lb          lb         LCW INCOmE             MUoLk.T IScE
L96        V.97U'-  5ETLttATo-l   ATtICA S. Ut? SARA    AFRICA S. UF S.MIARA
ADJUSTeD UENOLL*HIdT RATlOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   27.0       40.0        62.0               63.9                     97.2
MALE                   38.0        55.0   U 4.0                  73.6                    103.1
FNALE                  15.0       25.0       39.0               51.6                     88.5
SCOmWARY: TOTAL                    2.0         6.0       16.0               12.5                     L7.Z
MALE                    2.0         8.0       23.0               16.7                     23.5
FEMALE                  1.0         3.0        6.0                d.1.                    14.2
VOCATIOSAL (t OF SECONDARY)         12.9        4.1         8.1                7.3                      5.2
PUPLT-rEACKER RATIO
PRI1AAY                           41.0        ".0        48.0              66.4                      42.9
SeClOX                            23.0       25.0        31.01.            25.1                      23.7
ADULT LITERACf RATE tZ)              4.6        11.011     27.9               36.5                     37.1
mipr
PASSENtEk CAi5/THOIUASD POP          1.4        4.6         5.5f             3.3                      18.8
AD10 RECEIVuRS/TaJUSASJ POP        12.2       32.0        71.9              45.3                      97.8
TV XECEIVEV /TIdOUSASO POP           ..          ..         0.1                2.2                     1H.6
NEWSPAPEA (AILY C U&ERIAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PEA rdOUSAOD POVULATLUa             1.5        0.8         0.3               4.7                      18.2
C5IAI AJh1aL ATTENDANXC/CAPITA .     U.2        0.5         0.3/f              1.0                      0.6
To.AL LABOR FORCE- (r2OUS)        L049.U      1292.0     1621.0
FNALaS (PCRCD .)                  45.4       45.1        45.3              34.5                      36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERcc-T)             54.0       50.0        46.0               7,.9                     56.8
ISCSTRY (PelcCEuT)                 9.0       12.0        16.0               9.8                      17.5
PARTICIEATIO  RATE (PZdCEST)
TOTAL                             51.2       48.F        45.1               40.9                     37.0
KALE                              57.1       54.3        51.4              53.0                      47.1
FEMALE                            45.5       43.1        39.3              26.9                      27.0
ECGOOIIIC uEPESNYCY RATIE            0.9         1.0        1.1                1.2                      1.3
Ins DISIRWTIO-
PE1cEA. OF FRIVAT INCOSE
RECEIVED BY
IICHEST 57. OF dtUSEIILDS         31.4/
1sl&;Eh- 20: OF HUS;DS
LamEST t10 OF HOUSEHULDS           5./         ..
LOWES: 42 uF *uUSEU;JLUS          15.1..
_OEZwT TARGET CIUPS
ESTINAtLO ASSuLUAT  PVEIm  LiCOJM
LlVaL (US4 PrE CArPIA)
URElA.                              ..         ..          ..              165.9                    534.2
u.                                  ..         ..        54.0/h            87.4                     255.9
ESTIrATLu RELATrVL PMv"K?Y LIHE
&LVEL (CSS PER CAPItA)
Ui;                                 ..         ..          ..              100.8                    491.5
RURAL                               ..         ..        8.0/h             64.t                     186.1
ESTIATED MP. BLUM ABSOLUTE
POVERTY L:;CLN4 LEvCL C:)
LIBA                                ..         ..          ..              39.5
RURAL                               ..          .        650               69.o
..O? AIJaILASLE
MT APPLICABLE
JO T E S
/a  The group averages for each Lndicator are populatton-welglited arithmetlc means. Coverage of countrles awno; the
LndLeators depends an avaLLabLiLty of data and is not unlfarz.
/b  Unless otherwsie noted. -Uata for 1960e refer to any year bet.een 1959 and 19tl; -Vata for 1970- berieen 199 and
1971; and data fur -lost Recent Lsticate between 1979 and 19:1.
Ic  IY77; fd 1962; /e 1975; If 1976; /g PopulatIon; th 197b; /1 !973.
mlay iSbl



-18-ANNEXI
-                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Page. 3  f 4
secti.  d'..tbtva."M  -dn-  I.-  oorts go-atl  joiik"  oo "     - 61rmg 1 Id63 6963145e.6I9 E.    "b  aaoltw    br-   asb   akir-
-p.n.I. b--... F  ft L-.66  .11.11. di33333.6   64  _krad _   61 4 e3t_66   _.i.1_6 M6 _i1.1_gSk It_ 4.1_  W. 4_6 _l. 6.011t_. _5.4.1 
d    65..... WakI  oil   (1 .    4pt"   .46.1.1 tias 61.*   6  .3    66'8.119 664 51)6taf   -)W  1 633r9 a"."  oKv 6.165*6966IS 3=1.                i79.96I
6Sl.II.).  1616.ai.coado G.66.. 4436 666 .0665 6, -66131.  6361.6111*                        11 -  a*   &M 10665 -a. .06 ..8   '6 .61-su.   39 s.9.5.16  1.6
66316161-169  66l.6366.1 -     3641 t.1.51. 6..1. -t.. C       59.56 6617 .6.5.-a    I. ,.1196 to.   ..3btte si  d.9616 d 0.5 6 61..          I. aR1 -Il  664
95666666 506.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"."- 624I .F -isat
g=         L 13..6  -96.                                           ~5.6.it  4---I6  .                                                             5  1.35
9614.  I6 46t16. if ...... ft-, -.1.-.  I...... - 5.p.w.t3.                                                                                 pr6364  t 6 -L6  W p111313
rMfS!uMtf  - (661...            t.1.-6 *r5W0..W4 1..  II.51 .5 G..51                        -.616-   .3..1    .0.6136    10.5.16  6386
16661.6 ...1...64  1156.s  614.5... 1. 5.1.6  IWO             61s 01161. .                  bft .          =      M            -
331    IW  4.16.                                                                      P6upM     p...366 ft     Wak.66bt  . "bit3.3 364 - 363.1. .66.-.. .64 16181 -   W.M&1.6.  (1.l
_ tL ciWd W   W&A 0.   4013    U10:91111 .111.1          ..  - ttfs..           ft. take. 6  191  1.661 - .60t .5 joak11*1t "6 k
19m. 1936. 08 36  461.                                                                      by -L- -..          p1i3cl. -    f.6bgft..-1  P-..416q WE1.51161  c..
66165611 ..    .164. 61.31 66634661.. 6.i6.. 1111d4.166.1566.
Ease" @35.36016  PM. cm"f. - .5.L aps-Vit           .015 .-cp 5 or  rl                          1. co6.1W11 691 361.6-..1p, .-UP"1 bp . pby333614  1666 6,. .       .1
331.66r  -.6..   Is_.  .66 11..   666.1..  _6159 1634464. -1661                             3.63.66.. .53. .I4.1I.. .-6. 66366 We-6  "'.61.  1141. 
W64wat6.94  16.1 117  1W  61     .61.I 66 .96t.51- u.s oil..                          p76666* 1. 6.Sti  a . .1 .6l31-3 fac1itt1.. f. 5..1.11t.1 .1 Ow6536
16.661N AND16 3            14      5     6       .,I:IO   9. .64 196'1 C                     SelftkE 14..I5.l 65   1166.1  -. .d- *.1...             ..4666.
56 1 66   w O.  4130.   .6   1393    4.-6                                     __ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ __  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ __  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _
7    1-t- V-1-9-                                                                  M~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...6.1   5.16.1l...6       11.6.66   -
_G-5,L    666-730 - (.1a.6 ...6Ii- .j..g.cs  .  b..kI -  3960d .64 1.5  -J.w 9.63-  a %Id                                     t".r.   1.65.15656       6661 1.
Ma   "1dso     ft.4 -   .66  1911.8.-.11.7 .6  SiflLiL?                                 It. t..5*t.1kd f.,  u.1ac..1. s.SII...
16666  16691116   1..66565.5651.317 r6l sol..6   16.                        11 606.5  61.633  -l 6.          -156. -ft-. -o E-E11  65.         -.66  .
56916l 1.1.5  1.6.. .64 166r.1 1156 663135.  ftb6111165 61 71?)                         48.31164. 116-611637.  Cl113.5.g -."..4  ka163065.k e158c616  66
7666.  it. 6.-0.6.  161 1.161111  -_ 1661 -6 6.56.5  .63                                1.05       P16...
666.39  01161 3. 1-talhltv ka.1611.6   1166  3161 664 p.6  faa317                     3966616 1611111   "W.11  .5 4.511163.  -116. .^6. .. 6  .5.   -
60166w1166  65 6611167   r64.-6113  ":1.14  165  -116j6I36  0-pIk.                      .6 --16. 8S.66..    1..   1I3  116136l
916_1.__6  366661.6 - t. .1613661  969lit116  it.l  18. - sa616
63 L6It t651  5.56 1666.L1 ft." 46616 116 W6 i.5 It. 6"6                       516  M
611      1-56.6 6160   Tin.6 16.1.64.w Oa3.1  6111  1.-6.LA.                           1W.5661669  61,
4.1.11.11616666.5. 166395 661,  1                                                                          -616661611.66  5.1   161.6..611 664 59-1. - 156.516t61. -J.1 664 16.-1
661so p666691 16666r 5.L-6l6 11361 66615.r6. 116166.65                                    6..61656   3  619  -f t. 55168  1.6. 1 W61116.1.56,65 a-966.511
16.p166.   6166  -  663.664 -  I.~ 66L.6 66 1. I5J.-fi ft.--1,657666616. 166.3P-611.61  6...11                                      1 4. 163341.6  546-11
1.ate6 65 It. 36.166I66 1. cm.       MM1 06.  d6 .13 161 .( 46.g13.1.                     96616 666 .4j.-16d 1  401-.s..  16921, 14 63 667 646166366  6-
-P111?61.   .3....1.1                                                            calool1166 M 666   A65. L6 VG5..16.  -611*691..-  61.64W 10G   166
p616-5.36.6   11   66664                                                                   66645-.6.1-111..1    W45.1                   6.1616  r- .66  3656.6466
-  34766  16p.1.116  P., 6II-1  k119.66.. (km03936.6.  or                    656469611  65666. 61V              66116666161616   .
1616  "1661160. 1670. 664 km6 4.16.                                          P- 361136..    63VIt .1   ft *7 166.6  611  5656.1666.66d .6 
59116. 66.  C11.11.  .4-p(664 6 -4.66 16. 5151116  36                                       apok5-IL,66164
6617  193. 1131  64  962  616                                              '6111661 61611.56  16616.3 33 661.6416)    666130   361116696
j- 1616. 6656141615.   6   61   ..66636  61*-561                                         01   We11  4..1*-M. 6.64663               11-516. ft
3616166166  IW.11..636 . "?66.1-I66t. 1666-y 165.6461.. 761666.1 .5.161
16_11666..16  3960.66. 396-59   5I 197110411.                                             1666639  L-S..
.p.1L 13.. 161 "C0-. I"   61...l          A-- 6, 1.                                        61611661666 65-b  .61. CS 1611  U3631-kfta  3.It Co6.161 6M
16646 31116 6.66  161 166666663 - 4...1 31.6 61166631 11666664 61 .16
1665 16161.61661 1460. 916  .6539664.1 a. (Pa.3C .11-
l6161611663 1960. 5910. 61  366131 4656.                                                  66.6615  66 35 6356  961-;  VaWd-6.  A6166..  -666  664
GIko1666   d- 5.1456. 6.1  - 4-.11 -N6 .63 r. 4.9691.6. . 13IIba 39.16                      6.110  66666
6.1 M.66  16.Z-1.15  961.II616161615  519  66.l6115663  0.6                                               4-.  k-..64 s..161-.6  - 611", 5 .66     -L- 1661.. 5114.
5.1111, 515. 68.17 569.66  .619666169  16 3333. 3972. 0                            31M. 61  6.-  U656   6*56  1666   166 .;63   516..
191.166664166161  1166116   14"i7651-696616161.55.3
P59tv1 516_163   -"'16661 9.33 ft-,        &4.3 -616.66 b33r FI 656666.                           6666566  4.16 5.1 5.166  "6.M, -   1. 56966 16 36  6663
.5 b1M0,..66..I 66666  6646                  twice61  .1666  301?L Fa165.166                  I11.5 66.1.14  3166.669.
616316.                                                                                 T 11-1.-6 1661              oa66816.6.t-6) - TV 1-1.61   61 656116-.5
P6.11,PC.6.3.3   711  9151.56134666 -...91965.66k.666115                                     .66  6.3631=   6.96.3.5  5393111;563616.3698   TV 1611..
*61a34~l          6    151761  1   i 51.-..666134w31   -63..8.,6.-    39 6.1    63 1633166  63 IV.-61  L66 1.9111.
.  ll 6.11    6    96666   1.?                                                             .6.6 VIM ITI..6 3.1             I66.61  1333196-611  13  616
396  0  9J?3,73.                                                                      .311.C.     36665 d-4635;353 t  3126565 -sii3f  -k6364        6  3.363
i     t f6 Wde6.           cu.16  (-.93 -tow  -" -   -I66  .5 .9aVp69..               3.61163.. -4  -.6.4 5116613. 66 7166141196.5.3k W69 I0I 36 16.1156
396  -.5661W6~5  p.646.- 65356 -15%.:;  93416s. 3is". .64 3993
5.  616  .6,651116  (661666  166369.3) - (5.p16664 579                     *      66 1        65  (1.631.ks  - 166.1.1l, 66116  165.6. 16.164.s 6.3..
day. A-911b.63  .6.p1"6  66613   4-6613  6746666  .61. 1.6                                3661636.1 611 .656   f1.13..&9    616 1366  6.119 611
66666  641.3366  16 3161. 961 .0"911   --3.30 601-  I.". -M*4.                       L85.6*;1930. *106 .4 3A 933 a...
98.66111666664      NW 50   6166.66. 66  369.6  6. 41.616663..!~5E1 I - l...1 169  16516 F-                                        716 .65.  19161  6..- 5m.1.
ft911  61   616646  5..6  66---d"= .          -                 l-363664   . .9. -(1 = .!M3FM                      tb -16.1 I.-.9 16 -61633. 567616.   11336 86
6613636?, =    9.1  1.6.14. M9      ,"666106911  666.91666. 6647 8.15636.                    I16.616s361E-E61q.1 ii16.1 1.66  5.ss; I64.itp 3973.        ist. da.16
3684 9436611bo1166.E  6.1.t1-. .6d .116619630 1615.6  NW                                     (ft-)4615  p.s.~    - 1639, E..  I6631.. 1666361116. 66161666611
66666..1  1611963.).3-4      .59641.                                                   14 16.13617.6611 6466  66.613[=           3.6. 1.1 -L1366   5.1; 3939.
6*16.-65J6.1816                 P::,,665 ..3  961 467 664 20w,'_... - 1 3  . ..31         p651636-doo    66663. -.1665.76663  166316   .         t .3166616.-p.66152
"s16  616663.af 6561 160 66-6  3..-Id 3.  -I16159633.1.-                                   31. 1976. .64 1161 4c.16. -1656   616  6.  66W,.6661611161366166.5
666946346 616  KM. .5 1     6   666 $6 II 171   85316  pr,..36   -                    -t 15666 4IS  1696  61-  61    33966.1.366. .1416.136 15.64
.9   6a.L p63.3. .56    66.6  6.116 0.  14. ".6.19.  6" 55 1tI.                       .. -.1.1.  5  9166 ...-1  -6116
13165 9.114 P61  S-n.~  216-6. 1930 .14 19.4.6.. -                                      166661  ftp=s., 96.1. - 9616.1 16..36   66  I1 .-46 .64 11
4.13.6  M166661  66416166 I  M19.6                  ,f33,6.61.930 .6  4 377
4.6...                                                                                IM.6 Dr616191765
64~ 3161 3. 766*9 16661611   L 9  ft. 666 33"1116  -61  d66.116                  11.5.  136."1.       1675.  .6166  Z.35116-. 185660 6116  61
16116   6.66-    166"     1.11 3 t     I. 3 .3611961. 197330 -36.314.1.                   h..0664..
66.19a                                                                                    PO-law1 T661-T 1133
TT   .l.18.l 33 6.16   w.n     a.3s~*  i .4rnr*65 196 53666       1    .r6..i4t.  6163317.465666.. 6-               9.1..5 633611 -L..16...A
I6.66. 31WL611  3.          --g. 6....4   - a-1..  4.16  -C w1.1.61   307                 C663.6.4    ~1-6 161I -3..   -s.L (9 I6.6163                      -116.5   -I63
0.6 -611I.33-66  336  3*1t6.; IWA. t60.M 4 39361.033 look.1-                                       631..e 153. 3    t6 "6.6  17363a.k6.613.
3966.   ..  66  (61..-5.3.111P333.42..lr.  . 163-                                          .133.1p 66866461pa6966.1d65661ft196  66
069.656..6. 3.36. .1... 64 r1.3633316.6..611  667366  61I1              I65.61,466156
8.16  .6935(In..6. 333814 6156.6.5111 .57136461             1636164962336  16.nl  65... Sel(311$ 61 -....-3.6.-605363113-L
Z  =636131   661666   3669.6  56W146.56.6  1136  14656   63355.319                                               .133  .63.3465616-            1 553
356  66     *63.363361  6.2.23661   -911   66 23 616                               .6361                611316778  .               86563Z     16



-19 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
BENIN
ECOROMaC INDICATORS
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981                                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTK%
-fl9j constant prices)
Us$ Million              % of CDP                              1976-81
CDP at Markit Prices                 951.8                    100.0                                3.1
Gross Domestic Investment            333.6                    35.0                                14.1
Gross Domestic Saying                 12.5                      1.3                                9.5
Current Account Balance             -32a.9                   -34.6                                14.2
Exports of Goods. NFS                29 69                    31.4                                11.5
Isports of Goods, NFS                658.0                    69.1                                 7.2
OUTPUS, LABDR FORCE AND
PRODUCTISITY IN 198              Value Added                   Labor Pores            Yalu* addd per Worker
S1S Mllion      S        Thoueand           S           U 
Agriculture                          369.8       44.5       1,220.0         7M.6           303.1    59.9
Industr', Construction
and Public Works                   102.5       13.4         100.3          6.1          1021.9   201.8
Services                             367.6       42.1         338.2         20.3          1056.9   214.6
GDP at Factor Cost                839.9      100.0        t65C5         100.0          5C6 4    100.0
GOVERNUET FINANCE
Central Covernment
(UCAF Billion)                  orf GDP
1981                 1981     176-81 a/
Current Revenue                       52.6                 20.6      16.6
Current Expenditures                  34.8                 13.8      11.3
Investment Expenditures               25.1                  9.8       4.7
Transfers                              0.4                  0.2       0.4
Net lending                            2.8                  1.1       2.0
Overall deficit --)               -10.5                 -4.1      -1.2
External Borrowing                    13.9                  5.4       2.4
XONEE. CREDIT AND PRICES              1976       1977      1978      1979       1980      t981
(Ell-ion CyFA  OutstaudigESd Period)
Roney aLd Quasi Money                 30.6       34.9      39.0      46.7      61.4      71.3
got Claims On Central Goverment    -7.1          -9.4    *12.9    -11.8    -17.5    -20.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector a/      32.1       3B.6      47.1      59.4      85.0      87.0
(Percentage or Inde lNumber)
Noney and Quasi Money as S of CDP     22.5        23.2    23.2       23.9       28.5      21.6
f   General Price Index (1978-100)        83.8        86.8   100.0    113.3    131.1    159.2
Annul Perceztage Change in:
General Price Index                              3.6     15.2       13.3      15.7      21.4
Net Claim  on Central Gov' t.        ..        -32.4   -37.2        8.5    -48.3    -19.4
Banik Credit to Private Sector       ..         20.2    22.0       26.1      43.1        2.6
a/ Averare.
b/   Includes Public Enterprises.



-20-
AII
Stats of Bank Group Operations in EMSII
A. Steuit of IDA Credits (as of Ibah 31, 39B4)
US miflionl
hwt (lesscmeations)
Credit No.    Year  lbrroier    h                            Bwk   IDA    Umisbursed
Nim  credits ftWl]y disbnused                                44.01
746ME3      19ir7   B nin       ThIfd Hiway                      - 10.00       .01
826]3E1     1978   Bnin         Cotono Port                        19.30        .35
9R7-EIW     1980    >nin       Industril Dwelopet                  10.00       6.84
1093-EE1     l9Bl  Brtn        Feeder Roads                         7.00        .9D
11Z7-E1      1981   B9n         Ba}u .Ptv. Thnul Dwv1opunt          20.00      12.06
1142-E:      1981   Bin         Fbuth Riei                          11.30      5.07
1171-E:I     1981   An          Cotomz ibter Senitation             50         2*7
1189-H1      198l-  lzzin       Power Egigerizw and TA               I" .9
1207-EN      19E32   Bmin       TI u Petrolem Sector                8.00       4.33
124&BN       193    Beni        Seeond Edcto                        14-00      11.89    a
1314-N       1953   Bnin        zm Unsl DeVeopent                  20.0O       18.72
,;a                               170.47      63.13
Of tich Ibs beetL rhd               9.78
Total mr cutstaning                                  160.69
Total now beld by DA                                 160.69
TotEa iudisbzsed                                      63.13
B. Stateuent of Regiona hrik lows and Credits to Pnin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senoeg,
Togo, Upper Volta
. *               a$ m~t5  ifliorn
lomn or                                             h.            t (less cezellations)
Credit No.    Year   BTruer         e                          k    DA       Undisbursed
969-        19B)   BDLD        Project Prepiaatio  Credit           3.0        2.03
2242/W  3/   1953   MOD           egiona Developent          6.1      -         6.05
31-WF        193   B)AD          3o  Deelopt                        140 1/    13.63
I/ Begpint,n with Credit 1090D-I, credits bave been dem=nated in Special Drarg Rights.
The dollar aounts in tbese colums  preent the dollar equivalents at the ti3  of Credit
zwgotiations for the IDA auoumts and the dollar equivalents as of arch 31, 19B4, for the
urdisbursea amouats.



- 21 -
ANNEX III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I               Timetable of Key Events
(a)     Identification:  the project was identified by a World
Bank forestry sector mission in November, 1981 and
prepared by a World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program team
in October, 1982.
(b)     Appraisal Mission:  March 1983.
(a)     Negotiations:  November 1983.
(d)     Planned Date of Effectiveness:  November, 1984.
Section II              Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III             Special Conditions
The Government has agreed to:
(a)     prepare detailed work programs for monitoring DEFC's
physical operations and financial matters, and *iubmit
them to IDA for approval (para 39);
(b)     submit annual work programs and budgets for the
project plantations to IDA (para 41);
(c)     restore the balance of the Project Advance Account to
CFAF 32 million every four months in advance (para
44).
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a)     signature of a contract acceptable to IDA between DEFC
and ONAB, under which ONAB would establish and
maintain the Lama teak plantation (para 39);
(b)     opening by Government of a Project Advance Account at
the CAA with an initial deposit of CFAF 32 million
(para 44);
(c)     opening by Government of two special accounts at the
CAA under satisfactory terms and conditions (para 44);
and
(d)     effectiveness of the FRG financing (para 43).
A special condition of disbursement against the
eligible costs of the pilot plantations would be the signature
of a convention, acceptable to IDA, between DEFC and DRA of
the MESRS (para 40).



-.   A-I"                    U                                    N  I G E R
VOLTAli-l       O  T                               /      o     jx    S 
... / NIGERIA               
i-Xi~~~~~                                           %qX 1NIGER 
IVOR            NIGRI A                 \. Z' |
*,~~        UPPER                               Kr~
ATeANtIC OCeAN                           /   p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IPNVILL!
TIANGUIE I;TA             i92   .J   <       B  O   Rf   G   UO*LT|        -)
Koill OooC                 .
-..roullJr Lqxe   .  e   j ;   - i-.-Kouo/ nDd'.-.l         A
.10e' ---nirn                                  ou Ni                I Gn  E R
BjuJ                 -.    - ,,R  A.  -1fo. 1,
: \ .%,r ~~~~~ ~ B E    R s I ,
lta            FORESTRY  PROJECT
r_-lro~ i ,                                  S     , .  kho  I.hu  iIili  can Dt  slorpmen ian.



,>  -bs b           -'"l 'FORES  ' )                                       ' tOJECT
* 1, 8,, .'. .'. * :9 ..  .7  , ,rshoou }  -              African  DePvlopment Bank
\ z M~- -I--- dl^rou                           a     , /      . . .j
.  0Basil.                                                                                   E N  I N9,
I,',   : :  t    A  -, U                                                    FORESTRY  PROJECT
i      T,.'aciijiu u 
I        .<      .     .      .   4      l;                 -      African Development Bank
Fuelwood  Plantation Project
T 0  G  0                                                                                                                   D.E F.C. He.dqu.r,ors
I ;   1t  x                 \                       /i -- NUI l /        @<5ZZ3  Forfsl Reserwos
* V                                   II ._       '                 -            Pincipal Roads
N                    -  /                  -4-y~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Railways
t~~  .  ~~~i~~ji&~~~                       4  ~ International Airports
1. _.- DLbK. d4__I.                                                        t      Airf iolds
j  - i  :~~As  ~IDlabeKdAi  0    r?a                                          Rivers
f-J  1 .                 | *        | 1  ''H  "  6  -  0 4x,qbouo               Provincial Boundaries
*., .',',','. . .1l,, . t-, i! -|- International Boundaries
a4,    i7 -1-= i   _*   I Broadleol Energreen fres:                                 
ts    t  T ,oa o  .   W--:  1            1 ^'^   ) Deciduous Ftrasi, Brush, and Culoivated Vegersiarn
Tchatil                                                                fa~~~~~~~~~~~~~K~ lltgrasi Savanna, Brush, and Cultivated Vegesatisn
I   Shtior. *ass (Acacia) Savnsnna
OASSA'ZOQJ             ~       ."                             Malsh Gross or Mangrove aind
re hPrrusUi5t  l                                               Cultivated Vegetation
1~~~,~   * ---Si*      5-- 
~ ,  <           2)   (jAd h ml.
A taf  m 6Aviliga%43-        O   I    , '                                                          ____      ____     ____      ____     _        IF
Alom*              9u*om.O. -....                 MILlS         10      10     30      40     10      60
*                          P     la
Th,s map has boon preparedy Oyti  4'i4                                                                                                                                                       7'
Tho Wotk) flanks sffN exclusvoly,
for,hoe conwinsonco of olil
,eldoec and is excusivaely lto the
internat ue It Thu .4i ilank
andc the k'dm,rona ional F_a.nco
corporation rh htnonrwriiaL                    .... LOKPSJ     ,.....
isoed and the boundlieCo stwio"        Ashidm  
oni )s1 map to inot iply, an Iho t.
paltlt Tht Worki) lank and the                                                                              -NOVO
kIternat,onaliriaancir Corporation.
any tuagtment on Ihe 0gal sOrtus              'aA
of any rorrsrory or any                               h                                                                                                      AO
endorsamonl or acceptance ol                            ' .  .                                                                                                                              . i  r
such boundariks.                                _--                                                                                                                                              Go1
LOML              ;        ;   S  ronoPpo                                    a                           v n n n 
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;



