Document of
The World Bank                                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4687-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BE NI N
FORESTRY PROJECT
May 29, 1984
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                =    CFAF 418 1/
CFAF 1 million      =    US$2392
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French
Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 50.
The French Franc is currently floating.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -   African Development Bank
CARDER    -   Center for Regional Action of Rural Development
DEFC      -   Department of Forestry, Water and Hunting
DRA       -   Agricultural Research Department (Direction de la
Recherche Agronomique)
FRG       -   Federal Republic of Germany
GTZ       -   Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammerarbeit
KFW       -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDRAC     -   Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action
(Ministere du D6veloppement Rurale et Action Cooperative)
MFEEP     -   Ministry of State Farms, Livestock and Fisheries
(Ministere des Fermes d'Etat, de l'Elevage et de la
Peche)
MESRS     -   Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
(Ministere de l'Enseignement Sup6rieur et la Recherche
Scientifique)
ONAB      -   State Wood Company (Office National du Bois)
SNAFOR    -   National Forestry Development Company
(Societl& Nationale pour le Developpement Forestier)
UNSO      -   United Nations Sudan-Sahel Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PROJECT YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
Forestry Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.      Introduction   . .............................  ^........... ...............  1
A.  Background.              .       ................. ..... .            1
B.  The National Economy . ................. .......  ....... .           1
C.  The Forestry Sector . ............... .  ..... .............. .       3
(a)  Forest Resources ... ...... . . .  ..............  -...... ......  3
(b)  Production and Demand ..         .     .....     ..............    4
(c)  Institutions and Training                                       5 .......... o ..............    5
(d)  Forestry Policy and Strategy ...7o..............                7
(e)  IDA Involvement          ................. o.........    8
II.  The Project Area  .* ....  ..8.... .                            ... ..     8
III-  The Project *-o ....................... -       ....- -4-.0-0.0.0.0.0   10
A.  General Overview         .....................    10
B.  Detailed Features         ...   ........................ .........    11
(a)  Strengthening DEFO .. . . ..... ..... oo ..                     11
(b)  Lama Plantation  . . .... .............. . .v. ........ ....    12
(c)  Pilot Plantations .         .. -   ..  ....   ..   ........   14
IV.  Organization And Management .................... ...... ......   14
A. General ..............     - .                      , .14
B.      Plantations   .......... o......      .....  ... o..o.-......  ....  14
V.  Costs And Financing Arrangements   .        ... .... .....               15
A.  Project Cost Estimates .......o ...... P-.................    15
B.  Proposed Financing  ....... ... .. .  ...... o.. ...   16
C.  Onlending Arrangements  ........... .....               .    .      19
D. Procurement .... ..o            ...........................         19
E.  Disbursement .        .........       ........         .........   20
F.  Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements ...... ..........  21
VI.  Production, Markets, Prices And Financial Results ........ .. ..        21
A.  Production                           ........ .......   21
B. Markets and Prices .... ...21
C.  Financial Results ......................     ..23
This report was prepared by Messrs. Fishwick and Crown and Ms. Jaisaard of the
Western Africa Projects Department with the part-icipation of Mr. W. Hanover,
consultant. Ms. Playfair-Scott was primarily responsible for report typing.
Figures and calculations were checked by Mr. D. prayton.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedl without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
VII.   Benefits, Economic Justification And Risks ....    .....                  ....    25
A.   Benefits                   ......               ..          ......... .,  25
B.  Economic Justification  *...........................e.....    26
(a)  Economic Analysis and Rate of Return (ERR)  ..........    26
(b)  Sensitivity ................................. .... ..    26
C.  Risks .....*      *.....                        ...O.....#..........  O....    27
VIII.  Assurances And Conditions .........................    28
Annexes
3.    Organigram ...                               ...    ..........    29
5.1   Project Cost Estimates  ..... . .     .        ...... . .... . ...........   30
5.2  Disbursement Schedule .................. .... ...... ,.....                      31
6.1   Government Cash Flow                           .......*..#.*.........   32
Map - IBRD 17325



- iii -
BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
Section I
A. Basic Technical and Cost Tables
Table 1        Calculation of Delivered Cost and Operating Costs of Project
Vehicles and Equipment
Table 2        Calculation of Fuel, Lubricant Requirements, Costings, Tax
Duties, Foreign Exchange for all Engine Driven Equipment
Table 3       Equipment and Labor Inputs/ha of Plantation
Table 4       Plantation Costs/ha
Table 5       Plantation Programme and Equipment Requiremnts
Table 6       Teak Volume Production/ha
Table 7       Teak Plantation Project Production
B. Project Cost Tables
Table 1       Investment Costs for Vehicles, Machinery and Equipment
Table 2       Vehicles Operating Costs
Table 3       Plantation Operating Costs
Table 4       Civil Works
Table 5       Additional Personnel:  Lama Plantation
Table 6       Road/Track Construction and Maintenance Costs
Table 7       Lama Component--Technical Assistance
Table 8       Pilot Plantation Program
Table 9       DEFC Strengthening
Summary Tables
- Summary Account by Time
- Project Component by Time
- Summary Account by Project Component
- Project Cost Summary
Section II - Financial Tables
Table 1       Teak Plantation Stumpage Value for Sawn Timber
Table 2       Teak Plantations Stumpage Value for Poles and Fuelwood
Table 3       Stumpage Value at Roadside of Salvage Logging in Lama
Table 4       Production and Stumpage Value of Wood from Salvage Logging of
3,800 ha in the Lama Area
Table 5       Calculation of Financial and Economic Salvage Value of
Plantation Machinery at Project Year 5
Table 6       Debt Services
Table 7       Calculation of Weighted Stumpage Fees According to Defferent
Forest Products for Lama Forest Plantation
Table 8       Calculation of Stumpage Fees



- iv -
Section III - Economic Tables
Table 1       Teak Plantation Stumpage Value for Sawn Timber
Table 2       Teak. Plantation Stumpage Value for Poles & Fuelwood
Table 3       Stumpage  Value at Roadside of Salvage Logging in Lama
Table 4       Opportunity Cost of Existing Bush Savannah and Land Utilization
by Farmers
Table 5       Economic Costs of the Project
Table 6       Economic Benefits, Economic Costs and Net Benefit Streams of the
Project
Section IV
- Remarks on Proposal for the Establishment of a Fuelwood
Plantation of Toui Forest Reserve
Section V
- Evaluation of Profitability of Charcoal Production
Section VI
- Forestry Research
Also Available:
Projeot Preparation Report: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Report
No. 5/83 C1P - BEN9
Document No. 128.904 (2)



v 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       People's Republic of Benin
Amount:          SDR 5.1 million (of which SDR 2.5, IDA; SDR 2.6 IDA Special
Fund)
Terms:           Standard IDA terms
Co-financing:   Federal Republic of Germany
Project
Description:    As principal objectives, the project would:
(i)    reorganize and increase the technical capacity of
Government's Forestry and Hunting Department (DEFC), to
increase its effectiveness in (a) collection and use of
basic information for the formulation of an appropriate
forestry strategy, (b) planning, coordinating and
executing programs to implement the strategy, and (c)
design and administration of fiscal measures influenc-
ing the forestry sector; and
(ii)   execute an industrial plantations program to reduce
future dependence on imported sawn timber, and generate
revenues for further forestry development.
To achieve these objectives, the project would consist of:
(a)    the establishment of a permanent unit within DEFC
responsible for strategic planning and programming, and
administration and control of sectoral finances, with
material, logistical and technical support;
(b)    the establishment and maintenance of a 3,800 ha teak
sawlog plantation in the Lama Forest Reserve;
(c)    the establishment and maintenance of 410 ha of pilot
plantations within Toui and Lama Reserves to test
improved species and sources of seed, establishment and
maintenance techniques, and charcoaling methods; and
(d)    the execution of studies in support of the formulation
of a forestry strategy, improved plantation establish-
ment and preparation of possible future forestry
development projects.



- vi -
Benefits
and Risks:   The project would result in reorganizing the DEFC so that it
could formulate and execute Government's policy for the
forestry sector. This would include planning and executing
programs for reforestation as well as controlling forestry
exploitation and managing revenues generated by forestry
activity. The industrial plantations established would
produce a total of 1.8 million m3 of sawn wood, poles and fuel
wood and help Benin limit imports of sawn wood after the year
2015 when substantial deficits would otherwise be expected.
The project does not face abnormal technical or managerial
risks.



- vii -
Estimated Costs 1/
----US$ million-------
Local    Foreign    Total
Strengthening DEFC                  0.20       0.82       1.02
Teak Plantation                     2.56       4.75       7.31
Pilot Plantations                   0.20       0.38       0.58
Total Base Costs                2.96       5.95      8.91
Physical Contingencies          0.21      0.44       0.65
Price Contingencies             1.53       1.87      3.40
Total Costs
(including taxes and duties)   4.70        8.26      12.96
Taxes and Duties                    1.41         --       1.41
Total Costs (net of taxes)          3.29       8.26      11.55
Financing Plan
-------US$ million-------
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA Special Fund                    1.00       1.80       2.80
IDA                                 1.10       1.46      2.56
FRG                                   --       5.00       5.00
Government                          2.60         --       2.60
Total                               4.70       8.26     12.96
Estimated Disbursement
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year       FY85  FY86   F87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
Amual                  0.5   0.6    1.0   1.1   1.0   0.7   0.4   0.1
Cumlative              0.5   1.1   2.1   3.2   4.2   4.9   5.3   5.4
Ebonomic Rate of Return:    14.5 percent
Appraisal Report:        4687-BEN dated May 29, 1934
Map: IBRD 17325
1/ Costs estimates are based on exchange rate of US$1 = CFAF392 which
prevailed at the time of negotiations; November 1983.






BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.01     The Government of the People's Republic of Benin has requested IDA
and IDA Special Fund credits totalling US$5.4 million equivalent to assist in
financing a five-year forestry project with an estimated cost of US$13
million. The project would be the first IDA assisted project devoted entirely
to the forestry sector in Benin.
1.02     The project was identified by a World Bank forestry sector mission to
Benin in November 1981 based on earlier work undertaken by UNDP/FAO, and a
forestry mission report prepared by a team from the Federal Republic of
Germany in 1979. The project was prepared by a World Bank/FAO Cooperative
Program team which visited Benin in October 1982, and was appraised by an IDA
mission comprising Messrs. Robert Fishwick and Robert Crown, Ms. Rapeepun
Jaisaard (IDA) and Mr. Wolfgang Hannover (consultant), which visited Benin in
March 1983.
B. The National Economy
1.03     The People's Republic of Benin is bordered by Nigeria to the east,
Togo to the west, Upper Volta and Niger to the nrth and the Gulf of Guinea to
the south. With a total land area of 112,000 km , the country is divided
administratively into six provinces--Mono, Atlantique, Oueme, Zou, Borgou and
Atacora (Map, IBRD 17325). The economy is predominantly agricultural and
productivity is mainly dependent on rainfall. The agroclimatic zones in Benin
are the equatorial zone to the south, with a bimodal rain distribution and the
Sudano-Guinean zone in the north with a mono-modal rainfall pattern. The
topography of Benin is generally flat with medium to low quality soil types.
Mineral resources available include limestone, phosphate and off-shore oil.
1.04     Benin has a population estimated at 3.4 million (mid-1980) with a
growth rate of 2.6% per annum. Seventy-one percent of the people live in
rural areas and 95% of the rural labor force is engaged in agriculture. The
country has three definable population regions: the northern region composed
of Borgou and Atacora provinces, covers 73% of the area but has only 29% of
the total population with an average density of 12 people per km2; the
central region, covered by the Zou province, represents 17% of both the land
area and of the country's population with an average density of 30 people per
kmi2; and the southern region including Oueme, Atlantique and Mono provinces,
covers 10% of the land area and has 54% of the total population with an
average density of 164 people km . Thirty-six percent of the southern
region's population is urban. The population is composed of a number of



-2-
ethnic groups of which the most important are the Fon (55%), the Yoruba (13%),
and the Bariba (12%). While each ethnic group has its own language, French is
the official language. The literacy rate is low; 11% for the population as a
whole and only 5% for those over 35 years of age.  The educational refor.m of
1975 emphasized primary school attendance and scientific and technical
training.
1.05     Benin is one of the world's poorest countries, with per capita income
estimated at US$310 (1980). In 1981 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was US$733
million. The annual growth rate of GDP (constant values) averaged 3% during
1971-75, was stagnant during 1976-1980 and rose to 1.8% in 1981. Agriculture,
commerce and the public sector were the major contributors to GDP representing
some 76%.
1.06     Agriculture is the most important sector of the Beninese economy.  It
employs 74% of the active population and provides 45% of GDP and 55% of the
country's foreign exchange. Benin is self-sufficient in food and has been
able to generate significant foreign exchange earnings from the export of
cotton, oil palm products and groundnuts. Benin has also recently exported
about 20% of total food production to neighboring countries, mainly to
Nigeria. In 1981 agricultural production was valued around US$330 million, of
which 85% was derived from crops and 15% from livestock production. The area
used for agricultural production in 1981 was 908,000 ha (only 15% of the
arable land). Food crops, mainly yam, cassava, and maize represented 90'% of
total agricultural production by value. Industrial crops, primarily oil palm
products, cotton, and tobacco, contributed only 10% but this percentage is
expected to increase substantially in the near future. Three major integrated
rural development projects 1/ which began in 1981, 1982, and 1983 respectively
and which are cofinanced by IDA, IFAD, CCCE and the Government, are expected
to improve the productivity of both food and industrial crops.
1.07     The Government's first three-year development plan (1978-80) aimed to
raise agricultural productivity, to improve the standard of living, strengthen
economic policies, promote participation and implement economic and social
change. The plan also allocated a large portion of the budget for industrial
development. The ratio of investment to GDP in Benin during the first three-
year plan period was 18% against 16.5% from 1972-76, reflecting the Govern-
ment's effort to accelerate the development of its production capacity. A
special incentive scheme in the plan aimed at stimulating investment including
investment in smaller enterprises. Large and medium-scale projects were
invested in by the State in association with foreign capital. Foreign aid to
the public sector financed 65% of the investment program over the period
1978-80.
1.08     The country has recently successfully eliminated the national budget
deficit by implementing rigorous measures with regard to the control of
1/   Bougou Province RDP, US$20.0 million IDA credit 1127-BEN, 1982;
cofinanced with IFAD. Atacora Province RDP; cofinanced by IFAD and OPEC
Fund, 1982; IDA administering. Zou Province RDP; US$20.0 million IDA
credit 1314-BEN, 1983; cofinanced with CCCE, FAC.



-3-
expenditures and improvement of debt collection services. During the first
three-year plan, the country had an average $7.6 million budget surplus. A
number of public enterprises, which had been operating in deficit, were
recently liquidated by the Government. Inflation averaged 11% per annum
during the first three-year plan period which may be considered moderate as
compared to developing country experience in general.
1.09     The second economic and development plan (1983-87) defines a develop-
ment strategy, designed to secure greater economic independence with emphasis
on increasing domestic demand and an adequate surplus for capital formation.
The creation of a domestic market large enough to constitute a consumption
base is necessary for industries producing consumer goods. Surplus production
is required to generate savings and mobilize investment, reducing the
country's dependency on foreign capital. Priority is again given to the
improvement of agricultural productivity and the expansion of cultivated land
for both food and export crops. Government is currently attempting to
translate these general objectives into concrete investment plans. Nonethe-
less, the forestry project is in line with Government strategy by providing
raw-materials (logs) for saw mills which would generate surplus revenues that
could be mobilized for future investment.
C. The Forestry Sector
(a) Forest Resources
1.10     About 60 percent of Benin's area of 11.2 million ha are covered with
forests or bush of varying densities. Most of the productive high forest has
been destroyed and converted to savannah woodland by farmers using fire as the
major means of clearing land for agriculture use. The remaining area of
closed semi-deciduous high forest now includes remnants of the forest reserve
of Lama in the south, probably less than 5,000 ha in total. This reserve is
being further reduced annually by new infiltrations through illegal farming.
In addition, there are remnant islands of valuable high forest and gallery
forests in the central west region covering about 870,000 ha. These are
estimated to contain between 0.7 and 1.5 million m3 of timber over 40 cm in
diameter, providing logs for veneer and sawn lumber. These forests have also
been exploited by the Societe Nationale pour le D6veloppement Forestier
(SNAFOR) to supply two small sawmills. These reserves are also being depleted
by fire and uncontrolled conversion to farming. Most areas of Benin are
relatively well wooded with extensive areas of savannah woodlands especially
in the center where there is about 1 million ha of legally protected forest
reserves, and about 1 million ha of national parks and "wildlife zones" along
the northern grontier. The savannah woodlands are estimated to carry between
5 m3 and 25 md/ha of wood and produce mainly fuelwood and poles. They play an
important role in the protection of the environment.
1.11     The forest plantation resource consists primarily of about 7,000 ha
of teak plantations, of which 6,350 ha are located in the Lama region, namely
in the Toffo, Djigbe and Agrimey forest reserves. They are between 9 and 32
years old. These plantations, which in the past have not been regularly



- 4 -
thinned or maintained present, however, a valuable saw log resource. A
systematic thinning program has started recently to make use of the resource
(para 1.12). Furthermore, in the more densely populated southern areas, small
private teak plantations, producing mainly small poles and fuelwood can be
found in considerable numbers. There is no census of these plantations.
Other plantations include about 1,000 ha of Casuarina and 11,000 ha of cashew
nut plantations which are established and productive.
(b)   Production and Demand
1.12     The demand for sawnwood in 1982 was estimated to be about 23,000 m3.
Part of this demand or 11,000 m3 is supplied from exploiting existing natural
forests, the logs being processed by small sawmills and pitsawyers. The
balance is imported. This demand is expected to grow in proportion to the
increasing urban population, and would reach 39,000 m3 in the year 2000,
71,000 m3 in 2020 and 128,000 m3 in 2040.  With good management now being
introduced with the support of a FRG Technical Cooperation project, the
exlsting teak plantations could supply the bulk of this demand up to about the
year 2015, after which substantial annual sawnwood deficits up to 43,000 m3
would be experienced. This would be equivalent to about 86,000 m3 of standing
timber.
1.13     Roundwood or pole demand in 1982 was estimated to be about 17,000 m3.
The private sector supplies about 12,000 m , of which 2,000 m comes from
private teak plantatio3s.  Government teak plantations provide from thinnings
the balance of 5,000 mi.  By the year 2000, the annual demand is expected to
grow to about 37,000 mi, increasing to 66,000 m3 in 2020 and 119,000 mv in
2040. Adequate supplies of the most valued poles from the teak plantations
would be assured up to about the year 2015, but thereafter substantial
deficits of about 30,000 m3 could be experienced.
1.14     In the absence of development of new domestic supplies of wood, in
addition to that provided by ongoing projects (para 1.20), Benin would
experience dramatic increases in wood importation and/or over-exploitation of
remaining natural forests to cover deficits projected to occur after 2015.
This would be harmful to the Beninese economy and natural environment. An
alternative would be to expand industrial plantations in the near future and
replant existing plantation sites when mature trees are felled. The project
would support Government efforts in this regard. Establishing the 4,000 ha of
new plantations as proposed in this project would be within the executing
capacity of Benin's forestry institutions (para 1.18) and would help meet
expected demands after 2015 (para 6.03).
1.15     The current annual demand for fuelwood is estimated to be about 2.7
million m3. Of this total, the small towns and rural demand amounting to
about 2.4 million m3 is supplied by uncontrolled exploiting nearby farm fallow
land and woodlands. These traditional sources are expected to be sufficient
to meet the increased demand in the future. The present demand, amounting to
over 300,000 m3 annually, of the two coastal towns of Cotonou and Porto Novo
is provided by exploiting the extensive natural woodland and farm fallow land
adjoining the road network up to 200 km to the north. The annual consumption
of fuelwood by these two towns is expected to reach 650,000 m3 by 2000 and 1.4



-5-
million m3 by 2020. Increasing transport costs and low population densities
would limit the radius of economic exploitation of the woodlands in the center
of the country, and the more heavily farmed and populated region in the south
would bear the brunt of the increased fuelwood cutting. Government plans
include the planting of fuelwood plantation along the coast and 80 km to the
north of Cotonou (para 1.20). These plantations when established and exploi-
tation commences, together with fuelwood from logging and sawmill wastes of
the intensified exploitation of the teak plantations would assure supplies for
the increased urban demand. Nevertheless, Government should devote more
efforts to the protection of the rural environment by the production and
distribution of suitable trees to replace those cut for fuelwood, and by
improved management of the natural woodland currently being exploited and
burned without restriction. The special problem of fuelwood supplies for the
wood-scarce region of the arid north, is being tackled by the Government with
the assistance of an UNSO project (para 1.20).  The project would assist
Government in monitoring progress of these other projects through the
establishment of procedures by the new DEFC Advisory/Policy Unit (para 3.05).
(c) Institutions and Training
1.16     The Ministry of State Farms, Livestock and Fisheries (MFEEP) is
responsible for all aspects of the forestry sector, covering legislation,
planning, reforestation and the management including exploitation of the state
forestry reserves and plantations. It executes its responsibilities for
legislation, planning and forestry management through its Direction des Eaux,
Forets et Chasse (DEFC) (para 1.17). Social and rural forestry projects,
which are of comparatively small significance at present, and forestry
surveillence are conducted by the provincial CARDERs under the administrative
responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action,
but working in liaison with DEFC. Until 1982, a state company reporting to
MFEEP, the Societe Nationale pour le DIveloppement Forestier (SNAFOR), under-
took forest exploitation, sawnilling, marketing and reforestation, on Govern-
ment's account.  However, SNAFOR became over-extended financially and was
dissolved in 1982. With a recent change in policy (para 1.21) Government has
transferred responsibility for reforestation to DEFC. The remaining SNAFOR
responsibilities are being assigned to a new commercially orientated state
company, the Office National du Bois (ONAB), which can also carry out
reforestation programs under contract (paras 1.17, 1.18). Forestry research
is carried out by the Direction de la Recherche Agronomique (DRA) of the
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESRS) and at present,
adequate l iaison with DEFC is being maintained. Given a clearly specified
program and the means with which to carry it out as would be the case under
the project, the research staff would be able to expand its efforts.
1.17     DEFC currently employs or liaises with about 150 professional, senior
technical and technical staff, whose mandate includes monitoring forestry
exploitation and legislation, research, reforestation, liaison with CARDERs
and administration and finance. Most of the 10 professional and senior tech-
nical staff at DEFC headquarters are young and almost all lack practical
experience since DEFC has had virtually no operating budget, equipment or
vehicles with which to work. Thus, the field staff, numbering about 140 who
are under the administrative control of the CARDERS, do not receive adequate



-6-
technical guidance or support from DEFC. This results in poor control of
forestry resource use by farmers and loggers. The headquarters staff is
organized in several fragmented units, each lacking the critical size
necessary for efficient performance. All units report directly to the
Director, as shown in the organigram (Annex 3). However, as the office of
Director is considered to be advisory to the Minister, the incumbent has heavy
commitments outside of managing DEFC, which limits his ability to give
meaningful direction to daily operations. Government has recently confided
the responsibility for forestry regeneration to DEFC; however, it has been
found necessary to organize independent project units within DEFC, for the
execution of recently negotiated reforestation projects (para 1.20) because of
DEFC's weaknesses. Each of these units also reports directly to the DEFC
Director, which further fragments DEFC's management and loosens control.
Given that these projects would undertake to plant about 12,000 ha over the
next six years, the present managerial and administrative capacity of DEFC has
been exhausted. Moreover, there is a grave risk to the remaining forestry
resources of delay in developing a coherent forestry strategy, proper admin-
istration and monitoring of forestry exploitation and reforestation programs.
Therefore, Government recognizes that it is critical that DEFC be reorganized
and strengthened as rapidly as possible to allow it to lead this development
and exercise its mandate (para 1.21).
1.18     The ONAB, which is in the process of assuming the commercially
oriented functions of SNAFOR, including forest exploitation, processing ELnd
marketing of wood and wood products, has and continues to receive substantial
assistance under a project financed by the Federal Republic of Germany
(FRG). The majority of the former SNAFOR field staff continues to be employed
by ONAB. They are organized into units which include inventory, logging and
extraction, saw milling and sales. ONAB also has a small staff for reforesta-
tion, whose activities are currently confined to conducting trials, but which
could be expanded to fulfill contracted reforestation works. An embryonic
studies and planning unit has also been established, to provide DEFC with
forestry inventory and tree measurement data. Its workshops, garages, and
office buildings have been substantially improved as a result of the FRG
supported project, and ONAB has begun mechanized forest clearing to establish
forest sawlog plantations from which revenues from salvage logging are
beginning to be generated. Government has now formally established ONAB, and
is recruiting senior management personnel, and arranging for adequate working
capital for the firm.
1.19     Professional staff are presently being educated at the Forestry
Faculty at the University of Ibadan, Nigeria. Senior technical staff are
educated at the Institute of Agriculture, Bouake, Ivory Coast. All candidates
for forestry education must have completed an agricultural course at the
Faculty of Agriculture, National University of Benin. Total staff employed by
the public sector number about 150, of which only 10 are professional or
senior technical grades. Thus, when the three professionals and several
technical staff now in training in Nigeria and Ivory Coast return to duty in
Benin, the level of formal training among this staff will be substantially
increased. The professional and technical staff required by the ADB assisted
fuelwood and the IDA/FRG sawlog plantations projects would number 11. Some of
these would be supplied by a reorganization of the present staff duties, but



-7-
even with formal training considerable in-service training would be required
for all staff. There is a forestry course at the Agricultural Polytechnic,
Sekou, which trains controllers, most of whom are employed in rural forestry
carried out by CARDERs.
(d) Forestry Policy and Strategy
1.20     Government's present forestry policy objectives are to ensure ade-
quate supplies of wood and wood products for the population, promote small and
medi-um-scale forestry industries to supply these needs, and to manage the
forest resources making use of sound environmental practices. Government has
attempted to translate this policy into practice through rural and village
tree planting schemes, and by reducing uncontrolled exploitation of natural
woodlands by the establishment of plantations. Projects include:
(i) assistance to ONAB to manage and exploit about 6,000 ha of teak
planted between 1950-68, including the construction of a sawmill at
Bohicon, and provision of technical assistance, financed by FRG;
(ii) establishment of 3,500 ha of pole and fuelwood plantations in the
coastal zone and 2,500 ha of fuelwood plantations in the degraded
parts of the Lama forest reserve, financed by the African Development
Bank (ADB);
(iii) execution of rural forestry plantations and tree planting in the
Atacora and Borgou provinces, financed by the United Nations Sudan-
Sahel Office (UNSO);
(iv) support for small scale, low cost village/rural forestry, with
technical advisors and modest investments, through resident FAO
staff; and
(v) extension of charcoal technology with the participation of bilateral
volunteer groups.
The plantation program in the project would complement these projects by
supporting expanded saw log production.
1.21     However, Government has not been able to strengthen the institutions
required to sustain reforestation efforts in the long run, or to improve the
level of management and control of forestry resources. This has resulted from
a long-standing division and confusion over the responsibility for forestry
policy and management. Before 1982, DEFC was given loosely defined monitoring
and advisory functions without sufficient resources to be effective in the
field. At the same time, SNAFOR was established both to conduct forestry
exploitation, as if it was a private enterprise, and to regenerate forestry
resources in the public interest. As a result reforestation has been minimal,
amounting nationally to no more than 200 ha per year. Moreover, because DEFC
did not have the staff, funds or experience it did not fulfill its monitoring,
analysis and planning functions adequately (para 1.17). Thus, the support
given the forestry sector to date has not been well coordinated or linked
systematically to emerging needs for wood, forestry resource management and



- 8 -
environmental protection. Approaches taken to execution and costs of various
projects have varied and analysis of costs and performance of the different
approaches, which would lead to efficient use of forestry resources, has not
been made. As a result, Government's forestry strategy is not soundly
based. Moreover, funding arrangements for most forestry sector activities
remain ad hoc, without a financially sound approach to the assessment and
collection of forestry royalties, taxes, and exploitation fees (stumpage fees)
being taken. As a first step in strengthening its strategy and strategy
making process, Government has issued decrees reassigning forestry regenera-
tion, which is in the public interest, to the Government department, DEFC. To
the extent that there is state participation in forestry exploitation, it
would be exercised through ONAB. As well as clarifying the mandates of
Government's institutions, this arrangement avoids imposing the burden of
investments with long gestation periods and needs for long term financing on a
conmercial enterprise such as OB which is unsuited for the task. The strategy
also opens the possibilities for future private sector participation in ONAB's
development. However, making Government's new policy for forestry institu-
tions operational will require a transition period, since experienced staff
will have to be reassigned, long term funding arrangements developed, and
working relationships altered. The project would aid this transition.
(e) IDA Involvement
1.22     The project would be the IDA's first direct involvement in the
forestry sector of Benin. The two areas selected for rural tree-planting in
the UNSO financed project (para 1.20) are in the Atacora and Borgou provinces,
where there are rural development projects assisted by IFAD and IDA,
respectively, whose management, the CARDER's, would also be responsible for
rural forestry. The project is in line with the Forestry Sector Policy of IDA
which gives sawlog plantations equal importance to smaller-scale social
forestry projects in overall forestry strategy, and stresses strengthening
sectoral institutions.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01     Location:  The project would involve tree planting in two separate,
ecologically different areas. Project plantings would cover 4,210
ha. Of this, 4,000 ha would be at Lama about 75 km from Cotonou; the another
210 ha at Toui about 80 km from Parakou (Map, IBRD 17325).
2.02     Topography and soils:  The Lama terrain lies at about 60 m above sea
level and is formed from an ancient lake bed. The soils in this depression
are derived from variable Eocene lake bed sediments. They contain a very high
(up to 60%) clay fraction.  As with all heavy clay soils, the differential
swelling and contraction of successive horizons during wet and dry seasons
create conditions which limit the period when mechanized operations can be
carried out to about five months in the dry season. The Toui forest reserve
is situated in a gently undulating plateau. The soils are variable and mainly



- 9 -
ferruginous or ferralitic. Some laterite formation occurs, but in general
they are suitable for good woodland production. There are no anticipated
technical problems in establishing productive plantations on these soils.
2.03     Vegetation:  The Lama area is the last remaining example of the semi-
deciduous high forest which once covered the southern part of Benin. Exten-
sive illegal farm settlement has resulted in most of the forest being con-
verted into a mosaic of temporary farmlands and forest, with the exception of
perhaps about 3,000 ha in the center which remains relatively untouched. The
rate of destruction is estimated to be about 250 ha annually and is increasing.
Under a land use plan to be agreed to this area would remain untouched for
scientific and ecological purposes (para 2.07). The Toui area carries good
quality Guinea savannah woodland, about 1,000-2,000 ha of which have been
cleared and planted with cashew nut trees (Anarcardium).
2.04     Climate:  To the south of Lama, rainfall averages 1,200 mm annually,
with maxima from April to June and August to October inclusive. The month of
July has a lower rainfall than these months. To the north of Lama, a similar
rainfall pattern occurs, with August having the lower rainfall. Toui is
situated in the zone where the rainfall averages 1,100 mm from mid-April to
mid-November, with a short dry spell in August. Temperatures do not limit
forest growth in either area.
2.05     Infrastructure:  The Lama component is well served by the all-season
road from Cotonou to Bohicon. The railway also passes through Bohicon. Tne
recently constructed saw mill at Saclo near Bohicon has workshops, offices and
other services which would be expanded under the project.  The main road and
railway line north to Parakou passes along the western boundary of the Toui
forest reserve, and in part forms the boundary of the reserve. A forestry
service camp already exists on this boundary where the access road crosses the
railway.
2.06     Population:  Considerable numbers of illegal farmers have entered the
Lama forest reserve even though few of them reside inside the reserve. Al-
though these farmers can be evicted legally, the proposed plantation develop-
ment in this reserve would require considerable numbers of seasonal labor.
Wherever possible, the farming activities should be integrated with plantation
establishment, and the farmers and their families would be concentrated in
villages where they could be provided with amenities and land for vegetable
gardening in addition to regular seasonal employment in the plantations.
There are few reported cases of illegal settlement in the Toui forest reserve.
Surrounding villages have a population of about 26,000 people and Parakou to
the north has a population of 66,000, providing adequate labor and markets for
wood products respectively.
2.07     Land Use Plan for the Lama Forest Reserve:  Although the Lama Forest
Reserve was gazetted in 1942-44, and an adequate land use plan for the reserve
drawn up in 1978, no effective action was taken to implement the plan. As a
result, farmers with no legal or traditional rights to the land have infiltrated
the zone. Subsequently, plans have been made to establish fuelwood planta-
tions in the most degraded parts of the Lama reserve for which saw-log
plantations would have had a higher economic value and the last vestiges of



- 10 -
indigenous forest in the reserve, which have considerable scientific and
ecological value are being threatened. Recognizing this situation, Government
has launched a resurvey of current land use practices and soil types in the
reserve to complement a completed resource inventory in the zone already
planted in teak. This work is being supported with assistance from the FRG
and would be used to produce new land use proposals for the reserve. However,
less detailed surveys show that there is sufficient land of suitable quality
available in the reserve for the establishment of the proposed plantations
without conflicting with other desirable land uses. The contract between DEFC
and ONAB for the execution of the proposed plantations would specify the final
bounderies of the plantation site.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Overview
3.01     Most of the population of Benin depends on forest products to meet
its domestic energy and building material requirements. This makes assuring
adequate wood supplies at reasonable cost an important national priority.
Therefore, creating new sources of supply and strengthening institutions to
permit optimal management of existing resources are primary Government
objectives. To achieve these objectives, the project would:
(a) enhance the capabilities of DEFC to manage the natural and plantation
forest resources of Benin and provide resources for the collection
and analysis of relevant data to develop an appropriate forestry
strategy; and
(b)  execute a plantation program complementary to those already funded
(para 1.20) to increase long term domestic wood supplies and reduce
future dependence on sawn timber imports into Benin.
3..02    Over five years, project finance would be provided for:
(a) establishment of a unit within DEFC responsible for planning,
programming, administering and controlling the finances of the
sector;
(b) establishment and maintenance of 3,800 ha of species suitable for
sawlog production (principally teak) in the forest reserve of Lama;
(c) support of forestry research into increasing the wood production
potential of the country by the establishment and maintenance of
small pilot plantations on about 410 ha;
(d) execution of specialized studies including a mid-term review of the
project's execution; and



(e)  training of selected local personnel through arrangements made by
FRG.
3.03     The plantation component would be executed by DEFC through a contract
with ONAB. This arrangement would be advantageous in that it would utilize
management capacity and infrastructure already available within ONAB, while
allowing DEFC the time to evolve institutionally simultaneously the plantation
program. Pilot plantations would be executed by forestry researchers in the
DRA of MESRS.
3.04     The project is suitable for IDA and IDA Special Fund financing
because of the emphasis given to institutional strengthening. The project is
consistent with IDA's concerns for forestry development.  Lastly, the project
does not replace or retard processing of other agricultural loans or credits.
Further identification and preparation of agriculture projects is scheduled to
take place in the second half of FY84.
B. Detailed Features
(a) Strengthening DEFC
3.05     DEFC would be significantly reorganized and strengthened as part of
the project.  This would be the initial steps in the transformation that would
allow DEFC to eventually assume full operational responsibility for forestry
regeneration, in addition to fulfilling its traditional roles more effectively
(para 1.21).  Staff now employed and charged with monitoring forestry exploi-
tation and legislation, research, supervision of reforestation, liason with
CARDERs, and administration and finance would be regrouped into a new
Advisory/Policy Unit. This unit would be the focus of DEFC's work in
collecting data, programming analyses, organizing future forestry programs and
coordinating projects to execute forestry regeneration. This grouping would
reduce the number of individuals reporting directly to the Director from eight
to five which would improve the direction given to DEFC (Annex 3). The Unit
would be strengthened with the provision of appropriate light vehicles, office
equipment and funds to cover vehicle and office running costs. An interna-
tionally recruited forestry administration specialist, with terms of
reference, experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 8.01(a))
would be employed for about 60 months to head the Unit. Such terms and
qualifications were discussed and agreed at negotiations. He would assume his
duties about 6 months before the start of the project, supported by a PPF
which has been awarded, in order to assist in the reorganization. This type
of specialty is not currently available in Benin. The Unit would also contain
financial and administrative services to develop a close working relationship
between financing and budget concerns and programming functions. As qualified
and experienced accountants are extremely difficult to recruit within Benin,
an internationally recruited accountant would be employed for about 36 months
as financial controller. He would direct the organization of DEFC's cash
inflows, originating from donors and Government, and from forestry fees and
royalties in anticipation of the future when exploitation of existing and
project supported plantations begins. His duties would begin about 3 months



- 12 -
before the anticipated start of the project, financed under the PPF. The Unit
would also have funds available to recruit up to 24 months of specialist
sesrvices from consultants, with experience, qualifications, and term of
reference acceptable to IDA (para 8.01(a)), leading to the elaboration of a
forestry strategy, and preparation of a possible follow-up project.
3,06     Related to the transition of DEFC but not supported by the project, a
studies and planning office within ONAB, supported by FRG, is being re-located
so as to be in close physical proximity of DEFC. It would provide the
Advisory/Policy Unit in DEFC with data on plantation yields, natural forest
areas, and volumes of saw logs.  This would also assist DEFC to formulate
strategy for state plantations, and plan cost recovery. Likewise, the
Director of DEFC, as the responsible official for the ADB and UNSO financed
plantation projects (para 1.20) would evaluate progress under these projects
as a basis for strategic planning.
3.07     With experience gained during the execution of the project, DEFC
would evolve into an organization capable of formulating and executing most of
Government's forestry policy objectives. An organigram of an organizational
structure which has been found effective in managing and regenerating forestry
resources elsewhere in Western Africa is annexed. Concrete plans for further
reorganization of DEFC would be made only after a mid-term review of progress
iDn project execution, as part of the preparation of possible follow-up
projects. However, one scenario would be that: (i) the Advisory/Policy Unit
would become concerned primarily with forestry monitoring and evaluation,
planning and programming of regeneration and exploitation, and forestry
legislation; (ii) areas of forestry administration, financial control,
inventory, taxes and royalties assessment and collection would become the
responsibility of an Administration and Finance Unit; (iii) state plantations
activities now executed through various project units would become the respon-
sibility of a State Plantation Unit; and (iv) social and agro forestry now
undertaken through special arrangements, would become a Rural and Community
Forestry Unit. The issues related to such a reorganization would be discussed
during the execution of the project as part of IDA's dialogue with Government
concerning the forestry sector strategy.
(b) Lama Plantation
3.08     The project would support a 3,800 ha plantation program in the ];ama
forest reserve which would augment the teak plantation already successfully
established there. The principal species would be teak (Tectona grandis) but
other sawlog producing species would be established in trials. Works to be
financed would include forest clearing, the construction of about 15 km of
access roads and 38 km of plantation tracks as required, and plantation
establishment and maintenance. After the felling and removal of the
indigenous wood produce for sawlogs, poles and fuelwood (or charcoal), the
renaining residues would be burned. Appropriate mechanical means would be
utilized in the heavy clearing and land preparation operations. These would
include the windrowing of the residues before burning permitting draining
operations and subsequent mechanical weeding, operations which cannot effi-
ciently be carried out manually in this area of heavy soils. Over the five-
year project period, the clearing, planting and maintenance program would be:



- 13 -
ClearirLg, Planting and Maintenances Program
(in ha)
84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    Total
PYI      PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5
Clearing and preparation      200       600      1,000    1,000    1,000    3,800
Planting                      200       600      1,000    1,000    1,000    3,800
Maintenance                   200       800      1,800    2,800    3,800          -
3.09     The main species selected for planting would be teak, already
successfully established on 6,350 ha in the region over the past 30 years.
Inventories of these plantations which in the past have not been correctly
managed, show that mean annual increments (m.a.i.) o 12 to 14 m3 over bark
(o.b.) per hectare San be obtained. Project yields have been calculated using
an m.a.i. of 11.5 m /ha.  A 40 year rotation with these growth rates would
produce saw logs of increasing dimensions from the second thinning after
PY 11, with final crop logs averaging 45 cm diameters. Provenance trials of
teak would be initiated.
3.10     Project financing would cover the purchase of equipment for forest
clearing of those areas which do not contain, any nat-ural regeneration. Main-
tenance equipment, vehicles, construction of incremental offices, maintenance
of access roads and plantation tracks and the hiring of labor would also be
covered by project financing. A camp with limited accommodation would be
constructed in the forest for staff and key specialized workers. Local
farmers who would be a source of seasonal labor for the plantation would be
encouraged to erect their own accommodations using building materials provided
by the project, and water points would be installed. A nursery would be
established to provide seedlings, and trials would be initiated to test the
feasibility of direct sowing teak seeds in the plantation area. Existing
support infrastructure such as workshops, storage sheds and garages already
provided by a previous FRG assisted project with ONAB would be augmented as
needed for the extra project equipment and vehicles, thus avoiding duplica-
tion. Ten man-years of technical assistance in plantation establishment
equipment repair and maintenance would be provided. In addition, provision
would be made to finance a total of 10 man years of overseas training for
selected staff of ONAB in forest clearing techniques, plantation establishment
and maintenance, and equipment and vehicle repair and maintenance, details of
which would be decided by Government in consultation with FRG and IDA.
3.11     The project would ensure the best land use of the forest reserve by
controlling the unrestricted felling and burning of the existing forest and
the replacement of unproductive forest by high valued species. The greater
part of the area available would remain under tree growth minimizing adverse
environmental effects. The central core of the reserve, only remaining
example of the closed semi-deciduous high forest which once covered the whole
of southern Benin, would be protected for scientific ecological purposes.



-    -4
(a) Pilot Plantations
3.12     Project funds would finance applied forest research into improved
species and provenances, establishment and maintenance techniques, and
improved charcoal production, to enable Government to evaluate its role in the
economic supply of wood and fuel to the population, and to provide tree-
Pplanting information for dissemination to the private sector. The pilot
plantations would be established in two distinct regions (i) the northern area
of the Toui (Kilibo) forest reserve where charcoal production from plantations
on a limited scale for the town of Parakou would be investigated, and (ii) the
southern area of the Lama forest reserve where group planting in exploited
forest and species and provenance trials of sawlog species including improved
trees from vegetative propagation would be carried out.  About 410 ha of
trials would be established during the project period. Project financing
would cover the cost of equipment, vehicles, operating and the hiring of
labour to carry out the work. Details of the program are provided in the
Project File.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
4.01     The project would be organized and managed by the DEFC.  The Director
of DEFC would have overall responsibility for project execution. The present
Director has fully adequate qualifications and experience to lead the DEFC
through its five year evolution. DEFC would make a contractual arrangement
with ONAB for the field execution of the Lama saw log plantation (para 4.02),
and a convention with the forestry researchers in the DRA for the pilot
plantations (para 4.04).
B. Plantations
4.02     The Lama sawlog plantation would be executed by DEFC through a
contract with ONAB. ONAB would perform all field work required in planting
and maintenance of the trees. Government would own the trees planted during
the project and would market the rights to thinnings and harvesting at
maturity as deemed appropriate (para 6.07). Major elements to be included in
the establishment contract between DEFC and ONAB, were discussed at negotia-
tions and would include inter alia definition of the area and site to be
planted, operations to be performed by ONAB, technical specifications of the
plantations and financial obligations of DEFC including the principles
governing the disposition of revenues accruing to salvage logging. Signature
of this contract, acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit effective-
ness (para 8.02(a)).



- 15 -
4.03     The contract between DEFC and ONAB would cover a number of detailed
executing arrangements. A steering committee composed of the Directors of
DEFO and ONAB, and representative plantation management staff, would review
and approve (i) annual work plans and budgets produced by ONAB, (ii) the
hiring of consultants, and (iii) staffing of key posts. It would also discuss
and resolve any issues or problems arising during execution of this com-
ponent. ONAB would prepare detailed annual work plans and budgets for DEFC
approval, hire field workers, make procurement arrangements, maintain
plantations on behalf of DEFC, and prepare quarterly and annual accounts and
progress reports.  The first annual work plan and budget would be submitted
for DEFC approval within 6 months following credit signature. DEFC would
monitor these accounts and progress with ONAB staff. An internationally
recruited plantation manager and a workshop engineer would be employed by the
project for about 60 man-months each, to assist ONAB in the technical
execution of the component.
4.04     The pilot plantation component would be executed by the forestry
research staff of the DRA. Annual work programs and budgets would be prepared
by the research staff in consultation with and approval of DEFC. A conven-
tion, acceptable to IDA, specifying inter alia planting programs, administra-
tive responsibilities of DRA, and financing obligations of DEFC would be made
between DEFC and DRA, and would be a condition of disbursement for this
component (para 8.03).
4.05     Within DEFC the head of the Advisory/Policy Unit would establish
procedures for monitoring all plantation operations, as a basis for DEFC's
annual work planning and budgeting. Government agreed that the plan would be
prepared and submitted for IDA approval within six months after his arrival in
post (para 8.01(b)). Monitoring fiscal matters would be carried out by the
financial controller (para 3.05). He would make periodic control and verifi-
cation visits to plantation sites to reconcile expenditures. A plan accept-
able to IDA for monitoring financial matters would be made within three months
after the assumption of duties of the financial controller (para 8.01(b)).
Based on information received from ONAB and DRA and its own investigations,
DEFC would propose annual work programs and budgets for submission for IDA
approval by December 31 of each year. The first of these work programs and
budgets would be submitted six months after credit signature. Government has
agreed with these arrangements (para 8.01(c)).
V. COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Cost Estimates
5.01     Total project costs over the five-year investment period are esti-
mated at CFAF 5,081 million (US$13.0 million), of which CFAF 3,238 million
(US$8.3 million) would be foreign costs or 64%. Cost estimates include an
estimated CFAF 552 million (US$1.4 million) of identifiable taxes. The



- 16 -
project cost net of taxes amounts to CFAF 4,529 million (US$11.6 million), of
which foreign exchange represent 71%. A PPF of US$150,000 has been awarded,
which is included in project costs.
5.02     Cost estimates are based on March 1983 prices and include (i) physi-
cal contingencies which from experience in similar projects should be 10% of
all costs except local personnel, technical assistance, consultancies and
training, and (ii) price contingencies calculated on the basis of the expected
local inflation rate in Benin and the international price index projected by
the Bank:
Rates of Increase in Project Costs, by Year
(in percentage)
1983       1984       1985      1986       1987
Local Costs                   11         11         11         11         11
Foreign Costs                8.0        7.5        7.0        6.0        6.0
Contingencies are equivalent to 45% of base costs and 31% of total costs.
Esttimated project costs are summarized in the table, page 17, and detailed in
Annex 5.1, and the project file.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03     Project costs net of taxes would be financed by an IDA Credit (US$2.6
million), an IDA Special Fund Credit (US$2.8 million), financing from the FRG
(US$5.0 million) and by Government (US$1.2 million). The FRG would channel
US$3.8 million equivalent thorugh its Kreditanstalt for Wiederaufbau (KFW) and
US$1.2 million equivalent through the Gesellschaft for Technische Zusammenar-
beit (GTZ). External financing would cover all estimated foreign costs
(US$8.3 million) and US$2.1 million (or 70%) of local costs net of tax. IDA
sources would cover these local costs. The FRG would finance vehicles,
equipment, machinery and technical assistance for the Lama Teak plantation, in
parallel with IDA sources and Government. IDA and the IDA Special Fund would
finance all vehicles and equipment, long-term and short-term consultants for
DEFC and the pilot plantations. Government and the IDA sources would co.-
finance Lama plantation establishment costs, including incremental local
personnel, and operating costs for DEFC including pilot plantation establish-
ment costs in the ratio of 78:22. Details of the financing plan are given in
the table, page 18 a
5.04     Both the IDA Credit and the IDA Special Fund Credit would be made to
Government on standard IDA terms. Of the FRG financing, the KFW loan is
expected to be on the same terms as the IDA, and IDA Special Fund Credits and
the GTZ contribution would be a grant. The fulfilment of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the FRG financing would be a condition of
eff'ectiveness for the IDA and IDA Special Fund Credits (para 8.02(b)).



BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Cost Summary, by Component
------------CFAF Milliono------------S$ Thousands 
Local      Forei8n      Total           Local      Foreign      Total            % of Foreign Exchange        % of Project Total
Base Cost
1= Lama Plantation
Vehicles, machinery & equipment        239       1,028        1,267              610       2,624       3,234                    81.2                          36.3
Plantation establishment               580         373          953            1,480         951       2,431                    39.1                          27.3
Buildings & roads                       164         136         300              418         346         764                    45.3                           8.6
Technical Assistance & training          20         326         346               51         831         882                    94.2                           9.9
Sub-Total                    1,003        1,863      2,866             2,559       4,752       7,311                   65.0                          82.1
2.  Pilot Plantation Program
Vehicles, machinery & equipment          26         112         138               66         288         354                    81.2                           4.0
Plantation establishment                 53          35          88              135          89         224                    40.1                           2.5
Sub-Total                        79          147        226               201         377         578                   65.2                            6.5
3. Strengthening DEFC
Vehicles and equipment                    8          34          42               20          87          107                   66.4                           1.2
Operating Costs                          41          44          85              105         112          217                   51.8                           2.4
Technical Assistance & Consult.          29         245         274               75         624         699                    89.4                           7.9
Sub-Total                        78         323         401               200         823       1,023                   80.4                           11.5
Total Project Base Cost          1,160       2,333      3,493              2,960       5,952       8,912                    66.8                         100.0
Physical Contingencies               82         173       256                210         442         652                    67.8                           7.3
Price Contingencies                601          731     1,332              1,532       1,866       3,398                    54.9                          38.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST               1,843       3,238      5,081              4,702       8,260      12,962                    63.7                         145.4



- 18 -
BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 2
Proposed Financing Plan (CFAF Millions)
-----------Financing Plan----------------
(Net of Taxes)
Total Cost    Taxes    Total Cost    IDA    IDA Special Fund    FRG    Govt.
(with Taxes)            (Net of Taxes)
I. LAMA PLANTATION
(a) Vehicles, machinery, equipment        1,764          270        1,494        -               -            1,494      -
(b) Plantation establishment              1,550          154        1,396        544            545             -       309
(c) Buildings and roads                     427           34          393        153            153             -         8
(d) Technical Assistance                    473            3          470        -               -              470      -
Sub-Total                      4,214         461         3,753        697            698           1,964     397
II.PILOT PLANTATIONS
(a) Vehicles & Equipment                    183           30          153         76             77             -        -
(b) Plantation establishment                141           21          120         45             48             -         27
Sub-Total                        324           51          273        121            125             -         27
III. STRENGTHENING DEFC
(a) Vehicles and Equipment                   56           16           40          20            20             -         -
(b) Operating Costs                         124           20          104          20            58             -        23
(c) Technical Assistance&Consult.           363            4          359        180            179             -         -
Sub-Total                        543           40          503        220            257             -        23
TOTAL net of Taxes                                              4,529      1,038          1,080         1,964        447
(%)                                                      (100)       (23)           (24)          (43)        (10)
TAXES                                               552                                                              552
TOTAL including Taxes                 5,081                                1,038          1,080         1,964        999
(%)                            (100)                                 (20)           (21)          (39)        (20)



- 19 -
C. Onlending Arrangements
5.05     Proceeds of the IDA and IDA Special Fund credits and FRG financing
amounting to $10.4 million equivalent, and Government funds amounted to $1.2
million which would cover project costs net of taxes would be deployed as
follows:
(a) CFAF 3,752 million (US$9.6 million) would be deployed for the Lama
Plantation component with (i) FRG contribution (US$5.0) passed on to
ONAB through Government, and (ii) the IDA and Government contribu-
tions (US$4.6 million) channelled through DEFC to ONAB under
4                   conditions specified in the execution contract;
(b) CFAF 273 million (US$0.7 million) would be utilized by DEFC following
provisions of a convention to be drawn up with DRA for the
establishment of the pilot plantation program; and
(c) CFAF 504 million (US$1.3 million) would be used by DEFC to cover the
cost of strengthening the organization including the provision of
technical assistance.
5.06     Government funds would be channelled through a project advance
account established at the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) into which
Government would make an initial deposit of CFAF 32 million (US$82,000) as a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 8.02(c)). At credit effectiveness IDA
and IDA Special Fund would deposit in two Special Accounts (designated as A
and B for IDA and IDA Special Fund Credits respectively), amounts equal to
about CFAF 138 million (US$350,000), to bring the initial amount available for
project financing to CFAF 170 million (US$433,000)- Opening these accounts at
the CAA on behalf of the project would be a condition of effectiveness of the
IDA and Special Fund Credits (para 8.02(d)). This is equivalent to 4 months'
project costs net of FRG participation. Government agreed at negotiations
that it would make its contribution, sufficient to bring the project advance
account to its original amount, every four months in advance (para 8.01(d)).
D. Procurement
5.07     Technical assistance, local personnel training and vehicles, equip-
ment and machinery for the Lama teak plantation, valued at CFAF 1,965 million
(US$5.0 million) would be procured following FRG procedures and would be
largely tied to FRG suppliers. For the remaining US$6.6 million, to be
financed by IDA, IDA Special Fund and Government and subject to the
eligibility restrictions applicable to the contracts financed by the Special
Fund, contracts of US$100,000 or more, would be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA Guidelines and would require IDA's
prior approval. Contracts below US$100,000 but more than US$50,000 would be
awarded through local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to
IDA while those of US$50,000 or less would be on the basis of quotations from
not less than three reputable suppliers.



- 20 -
5.08     Goods.  Vehicles, machinery, equipment, office and house furniture,
and building materials totalling about US$0.9 million would be grouped as far
possible in appropriate bidding packages and procured through ICB according to
the Guidelines For Procurement Under World Bank Loans And IDA Credits, with
special provisions as required by the Special Fund when these funds are
used. Additional goods valued at about US$0.3 million would be procured
through LCB or on the basis of solicited price quotations from local
suppliers, depending on the size of contract.
5.09     Services:  Contracts for 96 man-months of long term technical
assistance and about 12 man-months of short-term consultants' services would
be procured following the Guidelines For The Use Of Consultants By World Bank
Borrowers.
5.10     Works:  The construction of offices, extension of the workshop and
staff houses as well as road construction and maintenance for the Lama planta-
tion valued at US$0.3 million would be executed on force account by ONAB.
5.11     Others:  About US$3.3 million of project expenditures would be made
for fuels, lubricants and spare parts for operations of vehicles and equip-
ment, and for plantation establishment, following local procurement procedures.
Incremental local staff services valued at $0.7 million would be acquired by
Government in accordance with established practices, which are satisfactory.
E. Disbursement
5.12     IDA funds (US$2.6 million, including the refund of the PPF advance)
and Special Fund credits (US$2.8 million) would be disbursed over seven years
together, according to the source of goods procured for which reimbursement
was requested, as shown in Annex 5.2. This schedule is based on the expecta-
tion that the credits will become effective in FY85 so that initial
disbursements and repayment of the PPF would occur in that year, and that the
remainder of the funds would be disbursed following experience in disbursing
IDA credits in the West African region as shown in a standard profile. The
IDA and Special Fund Credits would cover project expenditures as follows:



- 21 -
Disbursement of IDA and Special Fund Credits by Category
Percenitage of
IDA          Expenditures
Category                            IDA      Special Fund       Financed 1/
(US$000's)   (USso$o's)
1.  Lama Plantation                     1,400         1,400              78
2. Strengthening DEFC
(a)  Vehicles and equipment           200          200             100
(b)  Technical Assistance             430          490             100
(c) Plantation Establishment
and other Operating Costs      80           130              78
3.  Advance (Special Accounts A and B   170             180
respectively, para 5.06)
4.  PPF Refund                            150             -
5.  Unallocated                           170           400
2,600        2,800
1/ Expenditures for which 100% reimbursement is planned would be made, net of
taxes, exdealership basis. Disbursement percentages on other categories
would cover, non personnel share of their costs, net-of-taxes.
Disbursements for vehicles, equipment and building materials and consultants
services would be against full documentatation. Disbursements against pay-
ments under the DEFC/ONAB Lama plantation contract and for DEFC plantation and
operating costs would be against certified statement of expenditures.
Supporting documentation would be retained by DEFC and ONAB, and made avail-
able for review by IDA project supervision missions.
5.13     The project financial controller to be recruited for DEFC Head-
quarters (para 3.05) would, in addition to his responsibilities for accounting
and financial control of the DEFC components, coordinate the preparation of
application for withdrawal from the IDA and Special Fund credits for all
project components, and train local staff as required.
F. Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
5.14     DEFC would keep summary financial records for all project components,
consistent with sound accounting practices and adequate to reflect the overall
financial situation of the DEFC and monitor the release of funds to ONAB, the
executing agency for the Lama teak plantation. As part of the Lama plantation
execution contract (para 4.01) ONAB would undertake to modify their accounting
system satisfactory to the DEFC financial controller by June 1984 to ensure
that plantation costs can be satisfactorily identified and monitored.



- 22 -
5.15     DEFC's project account would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, for review within six months after the close of the finan-
cial year. The auditor's report would include, in particular, an opinion on
the documentation supporting the statements of expenditures and credil; dis-
bursements against which withdrawal applications were to be, or had been,
made.
5.16     ONAB would submit quarterly progress reports to DEFC showing actual
as against budgetted expenditures, and statements of progress achieved.
Similar reports would be submitted by the forest researchers to DEFC. These
procedures would be specified in the Financial Controller's plan to monitor
project finances (para 4.05).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01     Production of wood from the 3,800 ha teak plantation would begin
immediately following the project investment period. Inventory work within
the established teak plantations in the vicinity of the project zone, made by
FRG experts (1978-82) showed that mean annual increments of between 11.5 m3/ha
to 14.5 m3/ha had accrued, depending on variations in micro-climatic csndi-
tions and soils. For the present project, an average m.a.i. of 11.5 m /ha was
assumed, giving plantation production of about 1.8 million m3 of wood over
40 years or 460 m) per ha. After accounting for the thinning program required
to maximize tree growth, the preparation team estimated that the major produc-
tion categories would be sawlogs (59%), large poles (29%) and small poles and
fuelwood (12%). The distribution of production by thinning period, over the
period when the plantation is maturing would be 3% of the total volume in the
first thinning (PY6-PY10), 4% for the second thinning (PY11-PY15), 5% for the
third thinning (PY16-PY20), 7% for the fourth thinning (PY21-25), and 27% for
the fifth thinning. The final felling would start from year 41 and would
eLccount for 54% of total production. These production parameters were
confirmed during appraisal. The production of thinnings is estimated to be
0.8 million m3 while the production from the final felling is estimated to be
1.0 million m3.
6.02     The clearing of 3,800 ha of natural forests in the Lama forest
reserve for the plantations would yield an estimated 76,000 m3 of wood (or 20
m3 per ha) during project yea3s 1-5.  It is expected that 9,500 m3 would be
suitable for sawlogs, 9,500 m as poles and 57,000 m3 would be firewood.
B. Markets and Prices
6.03     Markets for sawn wood poles and fuelwood purchased under the project
are expected to be good through to 2030 when the trees would be mature. About
80% of the wood produced or 1.4 million m3 would be harvested in the years



- 23 -
2015-2030. For this period the projected average annual deficit of poles in
Benin would be to more than 30,000 m3 (para 1.13) and that of saw logs to more
than 86,000 m3 (para 1.12). Production of saw logs and poles from the project
plantation of about 88,000 m3 annually would substantially reduce these
deficits, however, Benin would still be in a net import position. The market
for large poles, which can ideally be used as transmission poles, might not
expand fast enough to absorb the expected production. However, any surplus
would be converted to sawn timber for which the demand would exist.
6.04     Fuelwood quantities from the plantation would not be substantial and
are expected to be marketed mainly in the coastal towns.
6.05     The market price for local redwood sawn timber ranges from CFAF
64,000 to 94,000 (US$163-240) per m3 at Cotonou, depending on the dimensions
and suitability for various uses.  Imported redwood sawn timber, which enters
Benin without restrictions or control, sells for a similar price. When avail-
able, sawn planks of local teak, with dimensions similar to the redwoods, sell
for a premium, with average prices towards the top of the redwood range. The
average price for small teak building poles is currently about CFAF 25,000
(US$64) per m3 and for large poles mainly used as transmission poles, about
CFAF 60,000 (US$153) per m . Fueiwood from teak fetches an average market
price of CFAF 5,000 (US$13) per m  in coas al markets and wood from "filao"
(Casuarina) about CFAF 7,500 (US$20) per m .
6.06     The market for sawnwood is very competitive in Cotonou and is
expected to remain so in the future. Teak sawnwood from the project planta-
tions would be sold locally in response to the increasing demand for sawnwood
for construction and furniture. Exports of teak would probably not exist
because the local market will be large enough to absorb the full production
and imports would not be controled. The production of poles and fuelwood
would also be marketed locally. Thus, for subsequent economic and financial
analysis, the prices of teak sawnwood are assumed to be determined on an
import parity basis at a premiuam over redwoods, with real prices projected to
rise by 1% per year (following World Bank projections). Prices of poles and
fuelwood are assumed to continue to be determined in local markets. On this
basis accounting for both growth in real prices, and a premium for teak over
redwood, the market prices of teak sawnwood for the second to the fourth
thinnings are expected to be, on average, CFAF 85,000 (US$217) per m in
constant 1983 prices.  The price of sawn wood from the fifth thinning is
projected to be a 20% premi-um over redwood and in PY 33 would be CFAF
140,000/im3 (US$357/mi9) in 1983 prices. The price of sawnwood harvested at
maturity is projected to be at a 40% premium over redwoods and in PY 43 would
be CFAF 185,000/m3 (US$472/m3).
C. Financial Results
6.07     The project would produce a valuable commodity and Government would
have several ways in which it could market the wood. These include contract
cutting, letting of concessions to the plantation land or selling the wood to
ONAB. In the latter case, which is now seen as the most probable, ONAB would
be responsible for harvesting, milling, transporting and marketing the produc-
tion from the new teak plantations through depots already existing in the



- 24 -
major centers of the country. Sawmilling would be carried out by ONAB at the
Bohicon sawmill which was financed under a previous FGR supported project.
With adequate management the capacity of the sawmill would be sufficient to
handle the production from existing teak plantations and the 3,800 ha new
plantations, until the year 2000, when the mill would normally be replaced.
6.08     The Advisory/Policy Unit would advise Government on an appropriate
wood marketing policy and stumpage fees to be charged when plantations were
thinned and cut at maturity. The fee would have as its basis, that Government
recover the establishment and maintenance cost of plantations, and earn an
appropriate rate of interest on this investment. Making such calculations
would eventually fall to the exploitation and contract section of the F'inance
and Administration Unit (organigram, Annex 3). The st-umpage fees, in 1983
constant terms, which would allow Government to recover its investment in the
proposed 3,800 teak plantation (net of income from salvage logging and salvage
value of heavy equipment) plus a 10 percent annual return would be:
CFAF/m3       US$/m3
2nd-4th thinning          30,100          77
5th thinning              38,850          99
Felling at maturity       58,700         150
These fees are below the values of standing teak, estimated, based on its sawn
wood content and sawn wood market prices (para 6.06), net of all harvesting,
processing, and marketing costs, to be US$83/m3, US$120/m3 and US$201/mr- for
the different cutting stages. This indicates that on the strength of the sawn
wood content alone, there would be an incentive for exploitation of the
plantation. Residual fuelwood and poles would also be available.
6.09     Government's cash flow for the project has been estimated on the
following basis:
(i) outlays include costs for all project components, which have been
estimated including price and physical contingencies (para 5.02),
taxes and post-project recurrent costs for maintenance, plus the debt
service on the FRG loans, and the IDA and Special Fund credits;
(ii) revenues include credit and loan disbursements, indirect taxes paid
on project expenditures, income from salvage logging of the Lama
forest, and income derived from stumpage fees charged for logging of
the proposed Lama plantation. These stumpage fees have been esti-
mated to give Government full cost recovery plus a real rate of
return on its investment arbitrarily placed at 10.0% (para 6.08); and
(iii)  costs and revenues have been inflated by appraisal report factors
(para 5.02) during the project development period and have been kept
in constant 1989 terms from year 1990 onwards.



- 25 -
The first annual positive cash flow would be about US$0.1 million, and would
occur in PY2. The cumulative cash flow would become positive in PY6. The
cumulative net cash flow over the project life will be US$358 million or about
US$8.0 million annually (Annex 6). Simultaneously, the cash flow for ONAB,
the agency executing the Lama Plantation under contract would be positive
throughout the project period. ONAB would receive from DEFC funds necessary
to execute the forestry works, and would earn income from marketing salvaged
wood. It would pay establishment costs to suppliers and a stumpage fee to
DEFC for the wood marketed. ONAB would have a cumulative cash flow of about
US$1.4 million over the five-year execution period, which would represent
about 13% of the value of the works executed.
6.10     The income generated for Government from the stumpage fees described
above (para 6.08) demonstrates the potential which the proposed teak planta-
tions have for the creation of a forestry fund, which the Benin Government
intends to establish from part of the proceeds from the project, to finance
future investments in industrial plantations and rural forestry. Defining the
details of establishment, use, replenishment and control of this fund would be
one of the high priority tasks of the strengthened DEFC.
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01     Readily quantifiable benefits would result from the 3,800 ha Lama
teak plantation component in the form of 1,748,000 m3 of wood produced over a
40 year production period, enabling Benin eventually to be less dependent on
sawn lumber imports. Exploitable production would start with small quantities
of sawn lumber, poles, and firewood being available in PY6 from thinnings.
Eighty percent of the production would be realized after PY31 when substantial
sawn wood defz'cits in Benin are expected. During PY1-PY5, it is estimated
that 76,000 m9 of wood would be realized from salvage logging from the
existing woodland, mainly as fuelwood.
7.02     The main non-quantifiable benefits of the project would be its
strengthening of the forestry sector institutions. The project would assist
in the development of an appropriate forestry strategy, coordinating the
various development efforts and enhancing the capabilities of the DEFC to
manage natural and plantation resources of Benin. Applied research into
project-associated problems would benefit future reforestation projects.
Finally, owing to the location of the plantation, which would vertually
surround the reamining 5,000 ha of natural high forest in the Lama reserve,
this area of natural forest would be better insulated from intrusions.



- 26 -
B. Economic Justification
(a) Economic Analysis and Rate of Return (ERR)
7.03     An economic analysis has been made on the project including costs of
the Lama Plantation, strengthening DEFC, and establishing the pilot planta-
tions. Benefits include the wood produced in the Lama plantation, salvage
logging at Lama and the production from the pilot plantations, valued at
economic prices (para 7.04). The cost of technical assistance and training
has been excluded as this would have mainly long term unquantifiable benefits.
Costs and benefits have been estimated in 1983 terms. All costs have been
taken net of taxes, and all non-labor costs include 10% physical contingen-
cies. Wages and salaries of the skilled labor force working in the Lama
plantation have been based on the pay scales of ONAB which reflect the
scarcity value of trained manpower. Unskilled labor has been costed at
CFAF 420 per day, which is comparable to that paid for similar work in
agriculture in the Lama region. Opportunity cost of the proposed Lama
plantation is estimated to be (i) the expected income foregone from the
exploitation of the existing woodland for firewood and smallpoles and (ii)
income foregone by about 200 subsistence farmers who would become permanent
laborers on the plantation. The values of firewood and poles are estimated to
be CFAF 10.8 million annually for PY1-PY15, while the income foregone by
subsistence farmers would be CFAF 25.2 million annually until the end of the
project. Details are given in the Project File.
7.04     The economic price of standing teak timber has been derived as a
weighted average of the import parity price of teak sawnwood, cif Cotonou, and
the prevailing market prices at Cotonou for poles and fuelwood, less the costs
of cutting and extraction, transport, sawmilling (where appropriate) and
marketing. The resulting values of standing teak saw logs are estimated per
m at US$86 for 2nd to 4th thinnings, US$122 for 5th thinnings, and US$203 for
trees felled at maturity; US$55/m3 for small poles, US$144 for large poles and
US$4.50/m3 for fuelwood.
7.05     The economic prices of timber products from salvage logging in Lama
forest reserve have been estimated at roadside value, since the cost of
felling and extraction operations are part of the roject cost. The resulting
economic prices are US$72/m3 for saw logs, US$59/in for building poles and
US$15/m3 for fuelwood. The derivation all the economic prices is detailed in
the project file (Project File Annex III Tables 1-3).
7.06     On the above assumptions, the economic rate of return of the project
is 14.5%, with switching values at 12% estimated to be 38.5% for costs and
-27.8% for benefits. The detailed cost and benefit streams used are given in
the project file (Annex III Table 6).
(b) Sensitivity
7.07     The projects economic rate of return is only moderately sensitive to
changes in real costs and benefits. The switching values (para 7.06) show
that a rise in real costs of 39% or a loss of real benefits of up to 28% would



- 27 -
be required to reduce the ERR to 12%. A rise in real costs of 47% or a loss
of benefits of 89% would be required to reduce the ERR to 10%. Further the
project ERR is equally insensitive to other factors which could influence
it. Failure of real price increases for teak to materialize at one percent
annually (para 6.06) would decrease the ERR for the project from 14.5% to
14%. A lag in the plantation program by one year without a proportional lag
in costs, would reduce the project ERR from 14.5% to 13%. Finally, loss of
growth and/or trees amounting to 10% due to fire -- which is considered
unlikely since teak is fire resistant -- would reduce the ERR from 14.5% to
14%.
C. Risks
7.08     No major or unusual technical risks threaten the success of the
proposed project. In the project zone, normal risks of fire exist, and
precautions to prevent them and to control them if they occur would be taken
by plantation management staff. Once established, the main species teak, is
fire tolerant, and ground fires which could occur would only slightly reduce
annual growth increments. In the older teak plantations, losses have occurred
from wind uprooting trees. This has been attributed to lack of proper
thinning leading to over-crowding and shallow root systems. It is possible
also that the practice of planting stump plants has lead to poor tap root
development and invasion by root pathogens. To counteract this, direct sowing
of seed in situ or the use of large container plants would be tested to
improve rooting. Proper thinning schedules would be carried out to favor the
most promising trees, and to develop strong root systems.
7.09     About 80% of the expected production will be harvested after PY31
when substantial domestic wood deficits (paras 1.12, 1.13) are projected to
occur. However, there would be a possibility that the demand for large poles
would not be sufficiently developed by the time the major output of this
category of forest product is expected in PY23. In case the market would not
be sufficient for this produce, large poles can be converted to sawn timber
for which there is a market. In case the benefits from large poles are
reduced by 50%, a percentage resulting from a complete conversion of all large
poles to sawn timber, the ERR for the project would be reduced from 14.5% to
14%.
VIII. ASSURANCES AND CONDITIONS
8.01     During negotiation, Government agreed that:
(a)  the posts of head of the Advisory/Policy Unit and financial
controller in DEFC would be filled with internationally recruited
personnel with qualifications and experience judged satisfactory to
IDA. Likewise, short-term consultants to be employed would have
terms of reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the
IDA (para 3.05);



- 28 -
(b) a detailed work program for monitoring of physical operations would
be worked out and submitted for IDA approval within six months after
his arrival by the head of the Advisory/Policy Unit and a similar
program monitoring financial matters would be established by the
financial controller within three months after his arrival (para
4.05);
(c) annual work programs and budgets for the project plantations
(including those for the pilot plantations) would be submitted by
DEFC to IDA by December 31 of each project year, with the first being
submitted for approval within six months following of credit
signature (para 4.05);
(d) Government would make its contributions to the project advance
account, sufficient to bring it to its original level of CFAF
32 million (US$85,000) every four months, in advance (para 5.06).
8.02     Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) the signing of a contract acceptable to IDA between DEFC and ONAB,
for ONAB to carry out forest clearing, planting and maintenance of
the Lama teak saw log plantation (para 4.02);
(b) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
FRG financing (para 5.04);
(c)  the opening by Government of a project advance account at the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement with an initial deposit of CFAF 32 million
(US$82,000) (para 5.06); and
(d) the opening by Government of two special accounts at CAA under term
and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para 5.06).
8.03     Both parties also agreed that a special condition of disbursement
against eligible costs of the pilot plantation component would be the
signature of a convention acceptable to IDA between DEFC and DRA (para 4.04).
8.04     Will these assurances and conditions, the project is suitable f'or an
IDA credit of US$2.6 million and an IDA Special Fund credit of US$2.8 million
equivalent.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6   I
zt0StW0~~~~~ ht .0 FS.]
0~~~~~~~~
o N  E
C    V   W                            8 W       0'     1__     _X        
LU                                                                 li
Lr0
0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
di *~~~~--  _
-  ...L  -    ..L~~~~~ ..L~~~.L. ..J-
-4                                                                                                                                                   -- ---                                                                       



BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates by Year
(CFAF Millions)
------------------- - ------ - - - ---- - -- P-CJECT  Vs 0AS0         __---  _- _____--------------------------------               ------- FOREIGN        EXCHANGE _
PYO                 PYI                 PY2                   PY3                 PY4                 PY5               TOTAL .                                      Amount
I. Lama Plantatior.
(a) Vehicles, Equipment                      -                 574.5                357.2               232.8                 72.2               31.1                  1 267.8                81.1               1 028.8
(b) Vehicles Operating Costs                                    20.5                 21.8                21.8                 21.8                21.8                   107.7                55.3                   59.6
(cl Plantation Establishment                 -                  51.2                 99.1               168.8                176.6               183.0                   678.7                46.1                  313.1
(d) Civil Works                              -                 191.3                 32.0                 4.7                  4.7                 4.7                   237.4                41.2                   97.7
(e) Local Personnel                          -                  27.3                 31.3                34.7                 35.8               37.0                    166.1                 -
(f) Road Construction&Maintenance            -                   6.7                 11.4                21.1                 21.5                 1.2                    62.0                60.8                   37.7
(t) Technical Assistance                     -                  62.5                 74.7                74.7                 70.8                63.1                   345.8                94.2                  325.7
Sub-Total Lama Plantation             -                  934.0               627.5                558.6               403.4               341.9                 2 865.                  5.0                1 862.6
II. rilot Plantation         r
(a' Vehicles, Equipment                      -                 132.5                  0.1                  5.5                 0.2                 0.3                   138.6                80.0                  110.8
(b) Operating Costs                          -                  10.0                 11.4                 13.0                15.1                17.1                    66.6                56.0                   37.0
(c) Local Personnel                          -                   2.6                  3.4                  4.2                 5.2                 6.1                    21.5                 -
Sub-Total Pilot Plantation            -                  145.1                14.9                 22.7                20.5                23.5                   226.7                65.2                  147.7
III. 3thtentheming DEFC
( ) Vehicles, Equipment                      21.9                3.7                  -                   16.4                 -                   -                      42.0                 -
(b) Operating Costs                           5.9               18.7                 18.7                 17.2                13.9                11.2                    85.6                 -
(c) Technical Assist.Consult.                24.0               59.0                 59.0                61.8                 42.8               t-9                    273.5                91.2                  249.6
Sub-Total DEFC                        51.8                81.4                77.7                 95.4                 56.7               38.1                   401.1                80.5                  322.8
Total Base Cost                      51.8            1 160.5                720.1                676.7               480.7               403.5                 3 493.4                66.8                2 333.1
Physical Contingencies                    2.9              100.5                 53.6                47.1                 28.8               22.8                    225.8                67.8                  173.3
Price Contingencies                       5.9              252.1               230.0                286.9                269.6              287.3                 1 331.7                54.9                   713.3
Total Cost
(including Taxes)                   60.6            1 513.1             1 003.8              1 010.7                779.1              713.6                 5 080.9                 63.7               3 237.7       >
Taxes                                9.6               186.7               108.1                107.7                78.6                60.8                   551.6                 -



Annex 5-2
- 31 -
Benin - Forestry Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
IBRD Fiscal Years                                               Cumulative                      % of Loan
and Quarter                    Disbursements                 Disbursement                    Disbursed
FY85                    3                     16                           16                             .4
(PY1)                   4                   524                          540                             1.0
FY86                    1                    41                          581                             2.0
(PY2)                   2                   266                          847                            4.0
3                   121                          968                            7.0
4                   181                        1,149                            9.0
FY87                    1                   161                        1,310                            13.0
(PY3)                   2                   356                        1,666                           17.0
3                   202                        1,868                           22.0
4                   202                        2,070                           27.0
FY88                    1                   243                        2,313                            33.0
(PY4)                   2                   458                        2,771                           39.0
3                   202                        2,973                           44.0
4                   202                        3,175                           49.0
FY89                    1                   202                        3,377                            54.0
(PY5)                   2                   401                        3,778                           60.0
3                   202                       3,980                            65.0
4                   202                       4,182                            71.0
FY90
(PY6)                   1                   162                        4,344                           75.0
2                   268                        4,612                           79.0
3                   122                        4,734                           82.0
4                   161                        4,895                           86.0
FY91                    1                   162                        5,057                            90.0
(PY7)                   2                   121                        5,178                           93.0
3                    61                        5,239                           95.0
4                    61                        5,300                           97.0
FY92                    1                    60                        5,360                            99.0
(FY8)                   2                   40                         5,400                          100.0
6/84



BENIN
FORESTRY PROJECT
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW FOR GOVERNNENT/DEFC AND PLANTATION EXECUTING AGENT t/
(CFAF MILLIONS)
-------------------------------------------- GOVV RNFENT/DEFC -------------------------------------------                                   ----------------------- -PLANTATION AGE         NT-------
......................... INFLOIIS ........................           ..                       ....    .. ............. OUTFLOW ..................  ... MET CASH FLOW ....  ....... INFLOW ...........   .......... OUTNOW .........  NET CASH  NOV
IDA/                     STUaPAGE   TOTAL    LANA    PILOT   DEFC   DEBT 3/    TOTAL                                  DEFC/  NET SALES             ESTABL.   STUMPAGE
YEAR        SPECIAL FUND  FRG  TAX REV. FEES 2/  INFLOW   PLANT.  PLANT.   OPS   SERVICE   OUTFLOW   ANNUAL    CUO.                   GOVT.    REVENUE    TOTAL   COSTS         FEES      TOTAL    ANNUAL    CUM.
PYO/PYI  t984/85      332        71     196        30      1271    1223      190    160        19      1592        (321)     (321)          1223        54       1277     1223          30      1-252      25        25
PY2        85/86      321        521    108       100      1050     880       21    102        19      1022          28      (293)           880       179       1059      880          10       988       71        96
P13        86/87      433        396    108       190      1127     841       35    135        21      1032          95      (198)           841       332       1173      840         190      1030      143       239
PT4        87/88      395        200     79       210       884     659       35     85        22       801         83       (115)           659       370       1029      659         210      879       150       389
Pr5        88/89      327        142     61       234       764     611       43     60        24      738           26      ( 89)           611       408       1019      611         234      845       171       563
PY6        89/90      222       -         7        91       320     85        -       7        25      117          203       114            85                    85       85
P17        90/91       87                10       272       369     65                7        26       98          271       385             65                   65       65
PYS        91/92                         13       453       466     33                7        29       69         397        782
PY9        92/93                         11       453       464    .33                7        29       69         395       1177
PTIO       93/94                         11       453       464     33                7        29       69         395       1572
95                          6      176       182      33               7        29       69          112      1684
96                         10      528       538      33               7        67      107          431      2115
97                         15      880       895      33               7        67      107          788      2903
98                         15      880       895      33               7        67      107          788      3691
99                         15      880       895      33                7       66      106          789      4480
00                          6      234       240      33               7        66      106           98      4578
01                         12      705       717      33               7        66      106          611      5189
02                         17     1175      1192      33               7        66      106         1086      6275
03                         17     1175      1192      33                7       65      105         1087      7362
PY20          04                         17      1175      1192     33                7       65       105        1087       8449
05                          7      305       312      33               7       141      181          131      8580
06                         14      914       928      33                7      140      180          748      9328
07                         22     1523      1545      33               7       140      180         1365     10693
08                        21      1523      1544      33                7      139      179         1365     12058
09                         21     1523      1544      33               7       138      178         1366     13424
1o                         3      -            3     33                7       138      178         (175)    13249
11                         3      -            3     33                7       136      176        (176)    13073
12                          3     -            3      33               7       135      175         (172)    12901
13                          3     -            3      33               7       134      174         (171)    12730
P130          14                          3      -            3     33                7       133      173        (170)    12560
15                        18      1598      1616     33                7       132      172         1444     14004
16                        46      4793      4839      33               7       132      172        4667      18671
17                        75      7989      8064      33               7       131      171        7893      26564
18                        75      7989      8064     33                7       130      170        7984      34548
19                        75      7989      8064      33               7       129      169        7989      42537
20                          3     -            3      33               7       128      168         (165)    42372
21                          3     -            3      33               7       127      167         (164)    42208
22                          3     -            3      33               7       127      167         (164)    42044
23                          3     -            3      33               7       126      166         (163)    41881
24                          3     -            3      33               7       125      165         (162)    41719
PY40          25                         33      5203      5236     33                7      124       164        5072      46797
42          26                         94    15608      15702     33                7      124       164       15538      62335
43          27                        155    26013      26168     33                7      123       163       26005     88340
44          28                        155    26013      26168     33                7      122       162       26006    114346
45          29                        155    26013      26168     33                7      121       161       26007    140353
1/ Current terms  PY1-PY5; constant 1989 ters thereafter.
2/ Stumpage fees estimated to yield 10% on investment in plantationw; PY1-PY5, payable by plantation executing agent; thereafter by forestry exploitation agents
3/ Debt earvice on all external finance, following IDA/IDA Special Fund repayment schedule.



r  : >,=      ~~~N I G E R                     2          )                                 3"         ]G     
T            ' UPPER   -                                     \
C-OAST -                                                                                                                                                          1
~~~~~.(                 .__ ______'_____-_________
ATLANTiC  OCEAN  - ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVIL
S~~~~~~~~Agr ==                                                                           NIGERiA
A .ZAN TJ e  EA At                 F      VO                 - T- A                          3
M < S . t -=;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ar~o   Developmen=-t Bn
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~olnn  Plan= ton Plic
y  \Xassori ~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~fX-~~~; - -X---0-nerntio aG:                                           oundarie__ _s 
z \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                               Tol g,oSnn, . ._,h, .nd -,~ooe  -_f ;o,;     @on      
B,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
BJ.k-,,      'N                                                                                                 K. =1d   A ,  _
K:bi    d-l \:uou?:                   -   /----                _          &       --         -       =         |
X 1~~~~~.           <=.tKJrov   E-    Bruo_ -.J 
T:kme 0 G>                                _                                                              DE F C. He.qu= *
. _  _5 . _ ..... .v. _ , ........ .. . S .= - . .-xR. -..y
i  =\-- .=iB@ll6foungtJ a2SU~~~~~=u   s  J[N  Doll-%A,,p==t
1==--....~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Bodl. E-:  F-,,,g .
Ari- vtt -6 A6..                                                                  KILMEER      v -         =<-20!- Fulwo o 60 P     lonoto rec
b,~~~~~ ~ ~~ thg -   & 7  Fhdoy
~~~~~~~d ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     i -P          D       e    e>        = ft b-d.-  .  Al
d~~~~~~~ ff Th  =Z    -1 h                     j'/   )     '\ .'          .l
h_- Cm                                            i             or                                             egWZt
~f -SFt 1-q ,-
-h ~ ~     ~      ~    ~     / L b-         i1s  sh .,.t   { 
AtmiAeue gALiKLOME E R 2 A2rJ40 98 
L   & . ARETGJ>6 1sESOU>der                      ^lLES O    10      0    30    40    503d



