OFFICIAL CREDIT NUMBER 1505 BEN
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Forestry Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1505 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT. dated                              , 1984, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN   her inafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract: (i) from Kreditan-
stalt fUr Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW) a loan (herein-
after called the KfW Loan) in an amount equivalent to three
million eight hundred thousand dollars ($3,800,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the KfW Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW; and (ii) from
Deutsche Gesellschaft fHr Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH (herein-
after called GTZ) technical assistance services to assist in the
execution of part of the Project, to be provided on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the GTZ
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and GTZ;
(C) the Borrower has also requested the Association in its
capacity as Administrator of the Special Fund established by its
Executive Directors by Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of October 26,
1982, to assist in the financing of the same Project by granting
a special fund credit (hereinafter called the Special Fund
Credit) to the Borrower equivalent to two million six hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,600,000); and the Associa-
tion as such Administrator is willing to grant the Special Fund
Credit pursuant to the Special Fund Credit Agreement of even,
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association as such
Administrator   (hereinafter  called   the  Special  Fund   Credit
Agreement);
(D) pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 25, 1983
and July 26, 1983, between the Borrower and the Association, the
Association has granted to the Borrower an advance in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000) (hereinafter called the Project Preparation Advance)
for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the preparation of
the Project; and


﻿- 2 -
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DEFu" means the Direction des Eaux, For8ts et Chasse
in the Borrower's MinistAre des Fermes d'Etat, de 'Elevage et de
la P&che, or any successor thereto;
(b) "DRA" means the Direction de la Recherche Agronomique
of the Borrower's Minist4re de 1'Enseignement Supfrieur et la
Recherche Scientifiiue, or any successor thereto;
(c) "ONAB" means the Office National du Bois, a state
society operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(d) "CAA" means the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, which
forms a part of the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance,
or any successor thereto;
(e) "Special Account A" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement;
(f) "Project Advance Account" means the account to be
opened and thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(g) "Project Year" means the twelve-months' period starting
July 1 in each year; and
(h) "CFA Francs" and "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Communaut6
Financigre Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and the
other members of the West African Monetary Union.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B, C
and E of the Project, open and thereafter maintain in CFAF a
Special Account A in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account A shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish.     The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1994, and ending April I-
2034, each installment to and including the installment pay, 1'I
on April 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DEFC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, forestry and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b)  Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall: (i)
for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter maintain, a
Project Advance Account in CAA on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association; and (ii) in addition to the initial
deposit of CFAF 32,000,000 referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of
this Agreement, deposit every four months in the Project Advance
Account an amount equal to the aggregate payments made from the
Project Advance Account during the immediately preceding four
months; provided, however, that at all times the funds available
in the Project Advance Account shall be sufficient to permit a
diligent and efficient execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (a) establish, not later than six
months after the date of this Agreement, and thereafter maintain,
an Advisory/Policy Unit within DEFC with functions and responsi-
bilities satisfactory to the Association; (b) employ a forest
administration specialist as head of such unit and an accountant
as DEFC's financial controller in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and (c) provide the Advisory/
Policy Unit with such funds, facilities, services and other
resources as required for the carrying out of its functions.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
forestry  consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out Part B of
the Project, the Borrower shall, through DEFC, enter into an
agreement with ONAB for the execution of said Part of the
Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including, inter alia, that ONAB shall:
(a) prepare and submit to DEFC for its approval annual work
plans and budgets within five months after the date of this
Agreement for the Project Year starting July 1, 1984 and there-
after not later than November 30 of each year for the following
Project Years;
(b) carry out forest clearing, planting and maintenance
of the Lama Plantation in accordance with such work plans as
approved by DEFC;
(c) follow, with respect to the procurement of goods and
services required for carrying out its obligations under said
agreement, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement;
(d) modify, not later than December 31, 1984, its account-
ing system in accounting a manner satisfactory to DEFC;
(e) prepare and submit to DEFC quarterly evaluation reports
on the progress of the work carried out by ONAB -in accordance
with said agreement; and
(f) be remunerated by DEFC, taking into account the dispo-
sition of revenues accruing from salvage logging.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of coordinating the pilot
plantations works to be carried out under Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause DEFC and DRA to sign a protocol on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association; such terms and
conditions shall specify, inter alia, the planting programs,
technical specifications of the plantations and the respective
administrative responsibilities of DRA and DEFC.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 7 -
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through DEFC, furnish to
the Association for its approval:
(a) a detailed plan for monitoring the physical opera-
tions included in the Project to be prepared by the head of the
Advisory/Policy Unit within six months after his or her assump-
tion of duties;
(b) a detailed plan for monitoring DEFC's financial opera-
tions to be prepared by the financial controller of the Advisory/
Policy Unit within three months after his or her assumption of
duties; and
(c) annual work programs and budgets for the plantations
included in the Project, to be submitted within six months after
the date of this Agreement for the Project Year starting July 1,
1984, and thereafter not later than December 31 of each year, for
the following Project Years.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-8-
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through DEFC, maintain
or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall, through DEFC: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, alil records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit


﻿-9-
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall, through DEFC: (i) have the accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Special Account
A and the Project Advance Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any grant, loan or credit made to the
Borrower (including the Special Fund Credit) for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan or credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is


﻿- 10 -
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01, The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Special Account A has been opened in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(b) the Project Advance Account has been opened in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
and the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation that the initial deposit of CFAF 32,000,000 into the
Project Advance Account has been made;
(c) KfW and GTZ have notified the Association that all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the KfW Loan Agree-
ment and of the GTZ Agreement have been fulfilled, subject only
to the effectiveness of this Agreement if such be the case; and
(d) the agreement between DEFC and ONAB referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement has been signed.
Section 6.02. The date    /VOc&M7    r) '   ({?tt , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                  Telex:
MINIFINANCES                    MIFIN 5009 or
Cotonou                               5289
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, ULited States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
t  rized Repiesentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                  /     4
Regiohal Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and                190,000         100%
equipment under
Parts A and C
of the Project
(2) Operating costs of           10,000         78%
DEFC under Part A
of the Project
(3) Forestry works under      1,330,000         78%
Part B of the Project
(4) Forestry works under         70,000         78%
Part C of the Project
(5) Consultants' services       430,000          100%
under Parts A and E of
the Project
(6) Initial deposit in          162,000         Amount due under
Special Account A to                       Section 2.02 (c)
prefinance items                           of this Agreement
under Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5)
above
(7) Refunding of                147,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                 161,000
TOTAL               2,500,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "forestry works"
means the works to be carried out: (a) by ONAB with respect to
Part B of the Project in accordance with the agreement between
DEFC and ONAB referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
(b) by the forestry researchers of DRA with respect to Part C of
the Project in accordance with the protocol between DEFC and
DRA referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) expenditures made
prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made for
expenditures under Category (4) unless the Association shall have
received satisfactory evidence that the protocol between DEFC
and DRA referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement has been
signed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 15 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, the main objectives of which are to increase
domestic wood supplies and to improve the overall financial and
technical management of the Borrower's forestry sub-sector,
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of DEFC
Establishment and operation of an Advisory/Policy Unit
within DEFC.
Part B:   Lama Plantation
Establishment and maintenance of a 3,800 ha teak sawlog
plantation in the Lama forest reserve.
Part C:   Pilot Plantations
Establishment and maintenance of pilot plantations in about
410 ha of the Toui and Lama forest reserves.
Part D:   Training
Award of training fellowships to forestry officers.
Part E:   Studies
The execution of:
(a) studies preparing a strategy for the development of the
forestry sector;
(b) a study evaluating on-going forestry activities; and
(c) feasibility   studies  for  the preparation   of  future
forestry development projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association so as to encourage competition
and to permit bulk procurement consistent with appropriate tech-
nical and procurement practices.
B.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (July 1980 edition)
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of internation-
al competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight


﻿- 18 -
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part B of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Benin
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Benin
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Benin equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this


﻿- 19 -
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent but more than $50,000 equivalent each may be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or
less may be awarded after solicitation of quotations from at
least three suppliers; provided, however, that the aggregate
price of the contracts so awarded shall not exceed $300,000
equivalent.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documente, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in


﻿- 20 -
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph,   the  Borrower  shall   furnish  to  the  Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
All forestry works under Parts B and C of the Project may be
carried out under force account by ONAB and DRA, respectively.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A, B, C and E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories
(1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in CFAF
equivalent to SDR 162,000 allocated to Category (6) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account A pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account A shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and depos-
it into the Special Account A the initial deposit. Thereafter,
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account A such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account A with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account A for eligible expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account A as of the date of such request, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit
after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective Categories (1), (2),
(3), (4) and (5), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request


﻿- 22 -
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account A after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account A such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account A shall be made
by the Association: (a) when the Association shall have deter-
mined at any time that all further withdrawals can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or (b) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) for Parts A,
B, C and E of the Project, minus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A, B, C and
E of the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be sooner. With-
drawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4)
and (5) for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account A as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account A (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account A by the Association, deposit
into the Special Account A or, if the Association shall so


﻿- 23 -
request, refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account A will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible expendi-
tures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Associa-
tion, and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to
the Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Ac-
count A.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


