CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 215 DA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance and Engineering Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 9, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 215 DA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance and Engineering Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 9, 1970


﻿Urpriopm      ut Tuibit Agrurment
AGREEMENT, dated September 9, 1970 between RE-
PUBLIC OF DAHOMEY (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERINATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association) :
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Ministry" means the Ministry of Public Works,
Telecommunications and Transport of the Borrower;
(b) "highway" means any highway or road adminis-
tered by the Ministry;
(c) "Department" means the Public Works Department
of the Ministry;
(d) "STI" means the Subdivision des Techniques Indus-
trielles, the organization within the Department in charge
of highway-maintenance equipment and vehicles.


﻿9
4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred
,thousand dollars ($3,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule
-or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. Except as provided in Section 2.04 below,
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods or services required for the Project and to be financed
under this Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of payments (i) for goods pro-
-duced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the
Borrower except under Category V of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02(b)
above, or (ii) for taxes imposed by the Borrower or any
of its political subdivisions on, or in connection with the


﻿5
importation or supply of, goods or services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTION 2.05. Pursuant to Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, it is hereby agreed that withdrawals may be
made from the Credit Account on account of payments
made to the consultants mentioned in paragraph (a) of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement prior to the date of this
Agreement but subsequent to January 1, 1970, but only up
to an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000.
SECTION 2.06. The currency of the French Republic is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to thn Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.08. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15
and July 15 commencing January 15, 1981 and ending
July 15, 2020, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on July 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per
cent (  of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/2%) of
such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Devel-


﻿6
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as provided in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement or as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance
with such other procedures supplementary thereto as are
set forth in such Schedule 3.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project. The specific goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and included
in Categories II and III of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agree-
ment shall be determined by agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower, through the Department,
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and highway maintenance practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Part I
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
acceptable to the Association to provide a team of eight
competent and experienced experts acceptable to the Asso-


﻿7
ciation, to an extent and upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association. Seven of said experts shall be
assigned to the Department and one such expert shall be
assigned to the Direction des Transports Terrestres of the
Ministry.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out Part II of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ competent and expe-
rienced consultants acceptable to the Association, to an
extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
SECTION 4.03. For the purpose of carrying out Part I
of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain within the Department a
Highway Planning Unit and shall cause such Unit, under
supervision of the experts referred to in paragraph (a)
of Section 4.02 of this Agreement, to be responsible for:
(i) preparing highway investment programs,
(ii) preparing staff recruiting and training programs,
(iii) assisting in the preparation, and supervising the
implementation, of the annual highway maintenance
programs and budgets,
(iv) coordinating traffic data collection and analysis,
(v) preparing a program for the improvement of feeder
roads in agricultural areas;
(b) provide, with the assistance of the experts referred
to in paragraph (a) of Section 4.02, on-the-job training
for personnel of the Department and of STI;
(c) establish satisfactory cost-accounting systems for
highway works, including construction, improvement and
maintenance, and for the maintenance, repair and renewal
by STI of related equipment;
(d) cause the STI, under the supervision of said experts,
to take before the end of 1971 adequate measures:


﻿8
(i) to accelerate the procurement of equipment and
spare parts, and payments therefor,
(ii) to introduce improved inventory-control procedures
for equipment and spare parts,
(iii) to make adequate provision within the annual budget
of the STI for the depreciation and renewal of
highway maintenance equipment,
(iv) to introduce sound and systematically organized
equipment-maintenance practices in the Department,
(v) to assess the need for net additions to the highways
maintenance fleet, and
(vi) to reorganize the operations of the workshops of
STI so as to ensure that services rendered to the
Department by such workshops take priority over
other work and that such other work be accounted
for separately under sound principles of cost ac-
counting to permit income earned from such work
fully to cover the cost thereof.
SECTION 4.04. In carrying out Part II of the Project, the
Borrower shall apply highway design standards acceptable
to the Association.
SECTION 4.05. Until completion of the Project and so
long thereafter as necessary, the Borrower shall ensure the
assistance of a competent and experienced technical expert
to operate the Department's Laboratoire des Travaux
Publics, and shall provide such Laboratoire with adequate
staff and equipment.
SECTION 4.06. Upon request from time to time by the
Association, the Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, promptly to the Association the reports, plans,
specifications, contract documents and work schedules for
the Project, and shall furnish any material modification
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.


﻿9
SECTIoNx 4.07. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and the opera-
tions and financial condition of the Department and the
STI; the Borrower shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Project, the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and the operation,
administration and financial condition with respect to the
Project, of the Department, the Direction des Transports
Terrestres and the STI.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower undertakes to have the im-
ported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit insured against marine, transit and other hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation; and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
SECTION 4.09. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territory of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with


﻿10
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit,
the maintenance of the service thereof, the Project, and the
operations, administration, and financial condition of the
Department and the STI.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.10. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.11. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposeO under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
SECTION 4.12. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Depart-
ment (i) to establish and maintain a satisfactory inventory
of all highways, and (ii) to introduce a new highway classi-
fication system acceptable to the Association relating the
categories of highways both as to design standards and as
to the role of each highway in the Borrower's transport
network.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Department, through
the Highway Planning Unit established under Section
4.03(a) of this Agreement, to continue on a regular basis
semi-annual traffic counts on all highways for the purpose
of obtaining consistent series of traffic data for trend
estimates.


﻿11
(c) The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be rea-
sonably required to ensure:
(i) that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using
the Borrower's highway system are consistent with
the structural and geometric design standards of
the roads used;
(ii) that the limits imposed by the laws of the Borrower
on such dimensions and axle-loads in accordance
with such design standards are duly observed;
(iii) that the movement of heavy vehicles is adequately
restricted on sections of roads where necessary
during periods of rain and that the rain gates pro-
vided for the purpose are adequately staffed, op-
erated and maintained.
SECTION 4.13. (a) The Borrower shall at all times in
accordance with sound engineering and economic stand-
ards (i) adequately maintain and repair its highways, (ii)
adequately maintain its highway-maintenance equipment
and make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof and
(iii) establish and maintain adequate workshops in appro-
priate places.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the resources of the
Road Fund established under Law No. 65-26 of August 14,
1965 be utilized exclusively for the purposes set forth in
paragraph (a) of this Section and that there be made avail-
able annually from other resources such additional amounts
as shall be necessary for such purposes.
SECTION 4.14. The Borrower shall close the Cotonou-
Segborou6 railway line to all traffic other than that neces-
sary for the operations of the palm-oil processing plant at
Ahozon within one year following the completion of the
rehabilitation works on the Cotonou-Segborou6 section of
the Cotonou-Hillacondji highway, and shall discontinue all
service on the Cotonou-Pobe railway line within one year
following the completion of the construction and improve-


﻿12
ment works on the highways paralleling such line, unless,
in the latter case, the Borrower and the Association then
agree that a substantial change in traffic demand dictates
otherwise.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the service charges thereon;
and upon any such declaration such principal, together
with such charges, shall become due and payable immedi-
ately, anything in this Development Credit Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an ad-
ditional condition to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the i,eaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions, namely, that the consultants
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall have
been employed as specified in such Section.
SECTION 6.02. The date of December 15, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.07, 4.12 and 4.13 of this Agreement shall ter-
minate on the date on which this Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after


﻿13
the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whi-hever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1974 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cotonou, Republic of Dahomey
Alternative address for cables:
Minifinances
Cotonou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
IN WrXESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿14
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
By /s/ MAXIME-LEOPOLD ZOLLNER
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ M. SHoAIB
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                          in Dollar Equivalent
I. Consultants advisory services for
highway maintenance                     830,000
II. CIF Cotonou cost of (a) new high-
way maintenance equipment and
related spare parts; (b) spare
parts and supplies for overhaul
and repair of existing highway
maintenance equipment; and (c)
tools, supplies and equipment for
extension and improvements of
workshops and stores                  1,660,000
III. CIF  Cotonou cost of laboratory
equipment for Laboratoire des
Travaux Publics                          40,0
IV. Consultants services for detailed
engineering and preparation of
bidding documents for reconstruc-
tion of about 320 km of highway         350,000
V. Consultants' subsistence                160,000
VI. Unallocated                             460,000
TOTAL      3,500,000


﻿16
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
Categories I through V shall decrease, the amount of the,
Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for, such
Category will be reallocated by the Association to Cate-
gory VI.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
Categories I through V shall increase, an amount equal to
the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the Asso-
ciation, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category
from Category VI, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in
respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿17
S0EDULE 2
The Project consists of the following:
Part I. A Four-Year Highway Maintenance Program in-
cluding
(a) Strengthening and reorganization of the Depart-
ment, including inter alia the training of highway mainte-
nance personnel at all levels;
(b) Activation of the Direction des Transports Terres-
tres;
(c) Procurement of highway maintenance equipment and
related spare parts;
(d) Overhaul and repair of the existing highway main-
tenance equipment;
(e) Extension and improvement of workshops and
stores;
(f) Procurement of equipment for the Department's
Laboratoire des Travaux Publics.
Part II. Detailed engineering and preparation of bidding
.documents for the reconstruction of about 318 km of high-
way including:
(a) about 300 km of the Parakou-Malanville highway,
.and
(b) the sections Sehoue-Massi and Godomey-Abomey
,Calavi, totaling about 18 km, of the Cotonou-Bohicon
highway.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods
1. With respect to equipment, materials and supplies de-
scribed in Categories II and III of the allocation of the
proceeds referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement,
identical or similar items to be procured shall be grouped
together to the extent practicable for the purposes of invit-
ing bids, and such grouping of items shall be subject to the
approval of the Association.
2. Pursuant to part 1.1 of the Guidelines referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, it is agreed that the pro-
curement of items described in Category II(b) and (c)
of such allocation in units or groups expected to cost less
than $10,000 equivalent may be made without resort to
international competitive bidding. In lieu thereof, the fol-
lowing procedure shall apply: quotations for the supply of
such items will be requested from more than one competing
supplier. Lists of such items to be procured, indicating the
quotations received and the proposed suppliers thereof, will
be sent to the Association periodically for its approval. A
conformed copy of each purchase agreement relating to
such procurement shall be sent to the Association promptly
after its execution and prior to the date of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit in respect
thereof.
3. With respect to all other goods and services to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the time interval
between the invitations to bid and bid opening referred to
in Section 3.1 of the Guidelines shall be equal to at least
sixty days.
4. With respect to items or groups of items included in
Categories II and III of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement


﻿19
and not exempted from competitive bidding under para-
graph 2 above, information concerning the advertising
coverage as well as the bidding documents and draft con-
tracts shall be submitted to the Association for its approval
prior to inviting bids. Such bidding documents shall state
that the suppliers of equipment shall provide adequate
servicing facilities and shall maintain up-to-date inven-
tories of spare parts in the territories of the Borrower and
that the evaluation of bids will be made on the basis of
prices including any duties and other taxes which will be
levied on the importation of the goods, such duties and
other taxes to be separately stated in the bids.
5. Before any award of such a contract is made, the Bor-
rower shall send to the Association for its approval an
evaluation of the bids received and the Borrower's pro-
posal concerning the contract and the award. If the Bor-
rower proposes to award the contract to a bidder other
than the bidder offering the lowest evaluated bid, the rea-
sons for such exception to Section 3.9 of the Guidelines
shall be stated. Promptly after the execution of any such
contract and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of proceeds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, a conformed
copy of such contract shall be sent to the Association.
6. The Borrower shall facilitate the accomplishment of any
regulatory formalities which may be required of suppliers
or their local agents under the laws of the Borrower to
enable the suppliers to carry out their contracts.


