Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/25/2009 
Report No.:  AC4305
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Kenya 
Project ID:  P116064 
Project Name:  Kenya Agricultural Input Supply Program 
Task Team Leader:  Andrew Mwihia Karanja 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 20, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: March 23, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTAR 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Crops (100%) 
Theme:  Global food crisis response (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 Special 
Financing 
5.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
5.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The proposed Kenya-Agricultural Input Supply operation seeks to increase access to 
agricultural inputs and technologies among targeted smallholder farmers in two main 
maize producing districts of Kenya.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project will have one component, which will support the up-scaling of the National 
Accelerated Agricultural Input Access Program (NAAIAP) input voucher scheme to 
43,000 smallholder farmers in the two main maize producing districts of Kenya, Trans 
Nzoia and Uasin Gishu.  Project Activities:  
 
•
Provision of agricultural input vouchers to poor and vulnerable farmers.  An additional 
50,000 farmers participating, at estimated cost of US$91 per farmer.In other words, each 
farmer will receive a voucher worth K Sh 7,300 to cover 10kg hybrid seed, 50kg basal 
fertilizer (such as Di-Ammonium Phosphate, DAP) and 50kg top-dressing fertilizer (such 
as Calcium Ammonium Nitrate, CAN).  
 
•
Capacity building for farmers, community committees and agro-dealers. Capacity 
building on input use and other farming technologies, screening and monitoring.  
Page  2
•
Government overhead costs, printing of vouchers, operational costs, and M&E.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Inputs (fertilizers and hybrid maize seeds) will be distributed to 50,000 farmers in the 
greater Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia districts, located in the high potential North Rift 
eco-zone of Kenya.  The Project will support smallholder farmers, who own at least one 
acre that can be planted with maize.  There will be no conversion of new lands into 
agriculture or maize planting. Farmers in the two districts also own dairy cows and small 
ruminant animals, which are normally kept under zero grazing.  There are no indigenous 
peoples living in the two selected districts.  
 
The proposed program will focus on increasing the production of smallholder farmers in 
the high potential cereal and dairy livelihood zone of the Rift Valley.The livelihood zone 
is commonly referred to as Kenya’s ‘grain basket zone’.  Total annual rainfall ranges 
between 1,200-1,500 millimeters.  Close to 50 percent of total national maize output (and 
60 percent of long-rains output) is derived from just seven ‘grain-basket’ districts, 
namely; the larger Uasin Gishu, TransNzoia, Nandi, Kericho, Bungoma, Nakuru, and 
Bomet.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Nyambura Githagui (AFTCS) 
Mr Ladisy Komba Chengula (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
This Project has been assigned environmental Category B, because its potential adverse 
impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas, such as on wetlands, 
forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats are limited; and the impacts are site 
specific, few if any are irreversible and specific mitigation measures can normally be 
designed.  The proposed intervention in the form of hybrid seeds and fertilizers are 
Page  3
normal farming inputs that will be applied as per agronomic specification within farms of 
the identified beneficiaries are likely to have minimal impact on the environment and 
human beings e.g. possibility of leaching agrochemical into water bodies or wetlands.  It 
has been determined, however, that the Project should trigger Environment Assessment 
(OP/BP 4.01) and Pest Management (OP 4.09).  Therefore, a partial environmental 
assessment in the form of an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) 
and a Pest Management Plan (PMP) developed for the Kenya Agricultural Productivity 
and Agribusiness Project (KAPAP- P109683), will be used.  These instruments are being 
reviewed by the Bank, and will be disclosed by end of March, 2009. Disclosure will be in 
a
form or stakeholders workshop in Nairobi, posting of the documents on the website of 
the Ministry of Agriculture, publishing the summary and table of content of the 
documents in major newspapers, and placing hard copies in the national library.  
 
The ESMF provides guidelines for screening the environmental and social impacts, 
while the IPM promotes safe handling of pesticides and use of biological control 
methods.  Mitigation measures proposed in the ESMF and IPM, such as training farmers 
in safe handling and disposal of pesticides, using recommended application rates and 
protective gear, and first aide and seeking medical attention in case of exposure to 
harmful pesticides will be supported under the KAPAP project.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Although the potential environmental impacts from this support are minimal, farmers are 
likely to adopt new production technologies, which may involve intensified use of 
fertilizers and pesticides.  The cumulative effect of intensification can be harmful to the 
environment of the Project area e.g. increasing soil acidity and water pollution.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
An alternative considered was to provide food vouchers to farmers to alleviate the current 
crisis.  It was rejected because it does neither address the long-term food needs, nor 
enhance food security.  In addition, the rejected alternative does not improve farm 
income, hence it was deemed unsustainable.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Under the KAPAP, the Borrower has prepared the ESMF and an IPM plan. The ESMF 
will be used for screening the potential adverse environmental and social impacts using a 
checklist, and design the appropriate mitigation measures.  The IPM plan will be used to 
guide the screening of the banned agro-chemicals and pesticides, and guiding safe use 
and disposal, as well as promoting biological control of pests. Additional capacity 
building to plan and implement the measures will be required at district and community 
levels.   
 
Page  4
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders include the Agricultural Sector ministries (Agriculture, Livestock, 
fisheries, and forest), Ministry responsible for the Local Government, Kenya Agricultural 
Research Institute, National Environmental Management Authority, District Authorities, 
CBOs, NGOs, farming community, and other Development Partners supporting the 
agricultural sector. The ESMF and IPM consultations took place at the national, district, 
and community levels, involving all stakeholders. Consultations were in the form of 
meetings and workshops, including with farmers in the sample villages visited.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/18/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/30/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/31/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/18/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/30/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/31/2009 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
Page  5
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
Yes 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Andrew Mwihia Karanja 
03/25/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Ladisy Komba Chengula 
03/25/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Nyambura Githagui 
03/25/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Karen Mcconnell Brooks 
03/25/2009 
Comments:   
