                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001648



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-94287)



                                         ON A

                                     GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                         FOR A

              KENYA AGRICULTURAL INPUT SUPPLY PROJECT



                                December 29, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
Country Department AFCE2
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective December 29, 2010)

                  Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings (Ksh)
                          US$1.00 = Ksh 80.70

                                FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1 ­ June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGMARK   Agricultural Market Development Trust
AMPATH   Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare
CBO      Community Based Organizations
CRS      Catholic Relief Services
DAO      District Agriculture Officer
EU       European Union
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FPCR     Food Price Crisis Response
GFRP     Global Food Price Crisis Response Program
GoK      Government of Kenya
IDP      Internal Displaced Persons
IOM      International Organization of Migration
KACE     Kenya Agricultural Commodity Exchange
KENFAP   Kenya National Federation of Agricultural Producers
MT       Metric Tons
NAAIAP   National Accelerated Agricultural Inputs Access Program
NGO      Non-Governmental Organizations
PDO      Project Development Objectives
TF       Trust Fund




         Vice President:               Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
         Country Director:             Johannes C.M. Zutt
         Sector Manager:               Karen Mcconnell Brooks
         Project Team Leader:          Andrew Mwihia Karanja
         ICR Team Leader:              Christine Cornelius


                                       ii
                                     KENYA
                     KENYA AGRICULTURAL INPUT SUPPLY PROJECT



                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet 
  A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv
  C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iv
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v
  F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... v
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii
  H. Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................. viii
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 5
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 8
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 8
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 10
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 11
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 12
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 13
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 14
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 15
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 16
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 20
  Combined with Evaluation Report. See Annex 5. ....................................................... 20
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 21
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 22
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 23

   MAP




                                                                 iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Kenya Agricultural
Country:                Kenya                   Project Name:
                                                                          Input Supply Program
Project ID:             P116064                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-94287
ICR Date:               12/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVRNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          KENYA
Original Total
                        USD 5.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 5.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process               Date           Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/08/2009     Effectiveness:                               04/30/2009
Appraisal:            03/23/2009     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/21/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010        06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Crops                                                                  100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                             100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                               At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Johannes C.M. Zutt                    Johannes C.M. Zutt
Sector Manager:            Karen Mcconnell Brooks                Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:       Andrew Mwihia Karanja                 Andrew Mwihia Karanja
ICR Team Leader:           Christine E. Cornelius
ICR Primary Author:        Christine E. Cornelius


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to increase access to agricultural
inputs and technologies among targeted smallholder farmers in the six main maize
producing districts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally          Actual Value
                                             Values (from          Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target          Completion or
                                              documents)            Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Incremental maize production in targeted areas (tons)
Value
quantitative or   0                          45,000                              40,800
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                 04/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
                  The total is comprised of 30,000 in year 1 (less than the target) and 10,800 in
(incl. %
                  year 2.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Maize yields in targeted areas (bags/acre)
Value
                                                                                 13 year 1
quantitative or   6                          15
                                                                                 21 year 2
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                 04/30/2010                            06/30/2010
Comments          Yields were less than target in the first year due to poor rains, but exceeded target
(incl. %          on limited area in subsequent year at project close. The average is not
achievement)      calculated, but would be less than the observed yield at project close.
Indicator 3 :     Beneficiary households self sufficient in maize (%)
Value
quantitative or   20                         50                                  68
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                 04/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Farmers receiving seeds and fertilizers (number)
Value
quantitative or   2,000                      50,000                              55,131
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                 04/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Farmers satisfied with inputs and advice received from dealers (%)
Value
quantitative or   70                         90                                  88
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                 04/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                  iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Farmers receiving vouchers (number)
Value
(quantitative     2,000                       50,000                          55,131
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                  04/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Farmers receiving agricultural advisory services (number)
Value
(quantitative     2,000                       50,000                          55,131
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                  04/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Vouchers reimbursed within four weeks by MOA (%)
Value
(quantitative     50                          75                              0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                  04/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Fertilizer distributed to farmers (tons)
Value
(quantitative     200                         5,000                           5,513
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                  04/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Seed distributed to farmers (tons)
Value
(quantitative     20                          500                             551
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/08/2009                  04/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Agro-dealers trained (number)
Value             25                       100                                153


                                                    iv
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/08/2009                  04/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Implementation progress reports and financial monitoring reports available
Indicator 7 :
                monthly/quarterly (yes/no)
Value
(quantitative   no                        yes                               yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/08/2009                  04/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Up-to-date M&E information available monthly/quarterly (yes/no)
Value
(quantitative   no                        yes                               yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/08/2009                  04/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/01/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     5.00
  2     05/28/2010           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     5.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     Kenya faced a shortage of maize in 2008/09 following unrest after the
elections and in light of the spike in prices of imported inputs, particularly fertilizer.
As a consequence of high input prices and the postelection crisis in early 2008, only 75
percent of the usual farm area was planted with maize during the main growing season.
The short rain season was poor in most of Kenya, resulting in poor harvests. Kenya's
national maize production for 2008/09 at the time of project preparation was estimated to
be only 2.43 million metric tons (MT), against an estimated national consumption of 3.15
million MT. The country faced a shortfall for about four months before the next major
harvest in October 2009. In past years of deficit, imports from neighbors in East Africa
(Tanzania and Uganda) had covered the needs. In light of high global prices and regional
short supply, however, traditional regional exporters could not be relied upon to keep
borders open. Kenya sought to cover the expected deficit through increased domestic
production, and sought assistance under the Agricultural Input Supply Project.

2.      This operation supplemented efforts of others to address the problem, and
provided a first phase of early assistance. The use of the FPCR-TF was justified as the
most appropriate source of funding for the immediate planting season. The European
Union (EU) was expected in April 2009 to approve an additional grant totaling 20
million from their Food Price Crisis Response Program, aimed at increasing cereal
production in Kenya over the next two years. The EU funds were approved, but at the
time it was recognized that they would arrive too late to influence production for the
nearest long rain season. The EU grant focused on seed bulking and multiplication and
other activities in order for the GoK to prepare a comprehensive program for the next two
planting seasons (September 2009 and March 2010). The Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) also supported the National Accelerated Agricultural Inputs Access
Program (NAAIAP). The effort to assist Kenya was thus shared among several partners.

3.      The project under review financed by the Global Food Price Crisis Response
Program (GFRP) supported the ongoing Government of Kenya (GoK) National
Accelerated Agricultural Inputs Access Program (Kilimo Plus voucher scheme) by
providing seed and fertilizer vouchers to smallholder farmers in six main maize
producing districts. As part of the NAAIAP design, it was expected that beneficiary
farmers would graduate to the Kilimo Biashara scheme, a related program that provided
access to inputs through commercial credit. The program thus had built in a concept of
sustainability through graduation from vouchers to credit. In addition to promoting input
use and increased agricultural productivity, NAAIAP also assisted private agro dealers to
improve their capacity and business acumen.

4.    The support through the project under review enhanced domestic
production and thus complemented and reduced the need for provision of relief food,
which was at the time well covered by other agencies. The grant also focused on areas
where normal or near normal rainfall was more likely, although not assured. It was
complemented by the long term support the World Bank and others were providing to the


                                            1
agricultural productivity agenda, including strengthening Kenya's research and extension
system.

5.      The GFRP grant contributed to the existing NAAIAP agricultural input
voucher scheme. Criteria for selection of farmers included low income and limited farm
size, ability to produce maize on at least one acre, membership in a group and willingness
to participate in cereal banks, land preparation before receipt of inputs, and priority to
women and child headed households. The emphasis on the productive poor distinguished
this operation from safety net or relief programs for the extremely vulnerable. Farmers
were provided input vouchers for the purchase of ten kilograms of hybrid maize seed,
fifty kilograms of basal fertilizer and fifty kilograms of top dressing fertilizer. These
vouchers were to be redeemed at local agro-dealers. Farmers were required to work in
groups through the establishment of cereal banks to increase the effectiveness of their
marketing efforts. Capacity building for farmers, agro-dealers, and local extension agents
was also provided. Funds were made available for monitoring and evaluation of the
scheme.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

6.     The PDO as described in the Project Paper was "to assist the Recipient to increase
access to agricultural inputs and technologies among targeted smallholder farmers in the
six main maize producing districts."

7.      The key outcome indicators to measure achievement of the development
objectives as reflected in the Results Framework of the project paper were:
    Incremental maize produced in the target areas;
    Increase in maize yields relative to the baseline of 6 [90 kg] bags per acre [1.3
        tons per hectare];
    Percentage of beneficiary households self-sufficient in maize;
    Number of farmers receiving improved seeds and fertilizers; and
    Proportion (%) of farmers satisfied with inputs and advice received from agro-
        dealers.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

8.      No changes were made in the PDO during implementation.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.     The main intended beneficiaries were 50,000 smallholders operating on one
hectare or less of land in six districts with high potential for increased production of
maize. Although farm size of less than one hectare was among the criteria for targeting,
the inputs were provided for one acre.



                                            2
10.     Beneficiaries were selected by community committees composed of various
stakeholders (local administration, agriculture and social services officers, church leaders,
community leaders, village development committee, Community Based Organizations
(CBOs) and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) operating in the area). The farmer
identification process was consultative and involved holding of open air meeting
"barazas" at location and sublocation (village) levels. Criteria for beneficiary selection
included: (a) low income and limited farm size; (b) ability and intention to produce maize
on at least one acre; (c) membership in a group for ease of training and logistical support;
(d) willingness to join cereal banks for efficient marketing of surpluses; (e) land
preparation completed before receipt of inputs; and (f) priority to women and child-
headed households with capacity to produce. The program areas (divisions, locations and
villages) were identified based on crop suitability, land availability, and density of farmer
groups, among other factors. The final list of beneficiaries was compiled by the divisional
extension team and submitted to the district. The vouchers were then released to the
beneficiaries, who were required to present identification and expected to redeem the
vouchers with accredited agro-dealers in their locality. The agro-dealers issued the inputs
against the vouchers, farmers' identifications and signatures, and recorded the price and
quantities supplied. The agro-dealer then submitted an invoice attaching the list of the
farmers plus the signed vouchers to the District Agriculture Officer (DAO). After
verification, a check was issued to the dealer as payment.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.    The Project had one component, which supported the scaling-up of the National
Accelerated Agricultural Inputs Access Program (NAAIAP) input voucher scheme to
50,000 smallholder farmers in the main maize producing districts of Kenya (Eldoret East,
Eldoret West, Wareng, Trans Nzoia East, Trans Nzoia West, and Kwanza).

1.6 Revised Components

12.    There was no revision of the Project component during project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

13.    The original grant activities were extended to the 2010 long rains season without
necessitating an extension of the grant closing date. The 2010 scale up was made possible
by cost savings from the 2009 season of long rains, which enabled an additional 8,000
farmers to benefit in 2010. The inclusion of farmers in 2010 was beneficial because the
rains were favorable, and the impact of increased use of fertilizer under ample moisture
could be demonstrated.




                                             3
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.     The project was prepared quickly under emergency procedures. The underlying
program already existed, and could be scaled up and improved through the project.
Extension workers and accredited agro-dealers were trained to help farmers make sound
decisions in choosing varieties and fertilizer types. The project reimbursed the GoK for
the associated training, which was undertaken during project preparation, as well as for
logistical costs associated with the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the
program. Use of retroactive financing assured timeliness of the support.

2.2 Implementation

15.     The project did not encounter significant problems in implementation, although
delay in the start of the scheme in the 2009 season resulted in some difficulties. The
farmer selection process was done quickly, which resulted in isolated abuses and charges
of biased identification of participants. Delayed payments to agro dealers left the weaker
dealers short of cash, and only the larger dealers could arrange for credit with their
suppliers. The paperwork required from the dealers was cumbersome. Many dealers
dropped out after supplying the first batch of inputs. Thus the most challenging areas of
implementation were in selection and targeting, and in redemption of the coupons.
Although the project area was one with fairly reliable rains, in 2009 the area experienced
drought, and yields were lower than targeted. They were nonetheless higher than the
baseline yields, and sufficient to give an acceptable return to the expenditure.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

16.     The project had simple indicators that were monitored competently and in a
timely fashion.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

17.    No significant issues related to safeguards arose in the course of implementation.
Redemption of vouchers was slower than anticipated, but without undue fiduciary
complications.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

18.   Continuation of activities is financed under a companion TF financed by the EU.
The underlying program is an ongoing one of the GoK.




                                            4
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

19.     The motivations for the project; i.e., to assist recovery from the disruptions of the
post-election violence and increase domestic production of maize in a period of shortfall,
were relevant. The grant demonstrated several improvements in the implementation of
the input voucher scheme, and influenced public policy in input supply. Reliance on
commercial importation coupled with public support for demand was shown to be
effective, and forestalled calls for the public sector to assume a greater role in supply.
The grant also showed that support to enhanced capacity of local agro dealers could be
effective and make them more attractive clients to commercial banks. The grant also
convinced the government to decentralize management of the input scheme to the district
level, although success of this approach in the first season was mixed. Lessons learned
from this experience helped the government to improve the flow of documentation and
funds, speeding up the process for the 2010 season.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

20.     The grant had simple objectives and largely achieved them. The grant enabled
55,131 targeted smallholder farmers to access improved seed and fertilizer in the six main
maize producing districts during the 2009 and 2010 long rains planting seasons. This
resulted in an incremental production of 30,000 tons of maize in the 2009 season, short of
the target of 45,000 tons in that season (due to poor rains). The shortfall was partially
compensated for in the following season when cost savings allowed distribution of
additional vouchers to approximately 8000 producers with incremental production of
10,800 tons of maize. The value of aggregate incremental production is estimated at
$11.8 million for the expenditure of $5 million. These short term gains may lead to
additional benefits in the future if farmers who participated in the program are more
willing to purchase fertilizer and seeds as a result of their experience. Farmer groups
established approximately thirty cereal banks in 2009 and over 100 in 2010.

21.     An independent evaluation carried out in April 2010 (summary attached) found
that, despite the poor rains in 2009, the grant had a positive impact on smallholder
farmers in the target area. The farmer selection process was largely successful in
identifying the intended beneficiaries. It is reported that vulnerable groups, including
internally displaced persons and others affected by the post election violence were
selected. The requirement that one acre of land be prepared for maize production was
intended to target the productive poor. Although this excluded individuals and
communities who were extremely poor and more suitable for safety net and relief
programs, the concept was understood by the selection committees. Isolated cases were
reported in which political influence biased the selection process. The overall selection
process was, however, assessed as effective.

22.     Due to low rainfall in 2009, average yields in the target area were depressed.
Production levels reported in the evaluation study indicate a realized yield of 13 bags per
acre (2.8 tons per hectare), which was below the target yield of 15 bags per acre. The
author of the report notes that the realized yield is considerably below the potential when


                                             5
inputs are applied in a season of good rains. The reported yield is nonetheless roughly
twice the baseline yield recorded in the project paper. Variation in yield across the
project area was mainly attributed to the timing in the distribution of inputs in relation to
start of rains.      Some areas received vouchers and inputs earlier due to better
management of the logistics of the scheme, including beneficiary selection, voucher
distribution and availability and willingness of agro dealers in the area.

23.     Forty-seven agro dealers participated in the voucher scheme. The participation of
private agro dealers was predicated on meeting training and registration criteria, which
many small dealers could not meet. As a result, 64 percent of vouchers were handled by
two large organizations, the Kenya National Federation of Agricultural Producers
(KENFAP) and the Kenya Agricultural Commodity Exchange (KACE). These
organizations used smaller dealers within their network to assist them in distributing
inputs. Agricultural Market Development Trust (AGMARK) trained dealers in business
management skills. Dealers who participated in the input scheme reported positive
impact. Their clients formed stronger relations with them, and their access to credit was
enhanced.

24.     Cost savings from the 2009 season allowed an additional 8000 farmers to
participate in the scheme in 2010. Good rains and timely input distribution due to
improvements in the system resulted in an observed increase of average yields in that
season to 21 bags per acre (4.5 tons per hectare), which was above the targeted yield.

3.3 Efficiency

25.     The estimated incremental production of 40,800 tons of maize from the 55,131
participating farmers was valued at $11.8 million, compared to the five million dollar
capital investment.

26.     This very crude assessment assumes that without the project the labor of the
participating households would have been about the same and none of the inputs
available under the program would have been purchased. Hence all the additional output
is incremental and no additional costs were incurred. A more sophisticated analysis
would alter these assumptions.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

27.     The project successfully distributed inputs, reached beneficiaries, redeemed
vouchers (albeit with delay), and generated 90 percent of targeted incremental output. For
these reasons the outcome is rated Satisfactory.




                                             6
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

28.     The project successfully targeted the productive poor and contributed to
reintegration of a small number of internally displaced persons. The gender impact of the
project was not separately monitored.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

29.   The project demonstrated that the private sector can play an integral role in a
program of public subsidy for inputs. Capacity of participating private dealers was
enhanced.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

30.     The strategy for development of the agricultural input sector in Kenya has been
constructively influenced by the grant. The private sector has historically been strongly
established in the fertilizer business in Kenya, unlike in many other African countries.
This position was at risk in the prevailing atmosphere of concern in 2008 and the highly
publicized interventions in the fertilizer sector by governments in other countries of the
region. The Government of Kenya chose to accord a dominant role to the private sector,
with ancillary support from the public sector, rather than defining a new and more highly
interventionist role for the government. The assessment that the approach was broadly
successful has confirmed the continued dominance of the private sector in supply and
distribution. The management of the scheme itself has also been improved through better
systems of flow of funds and documentation to speed up the voucher process.

31.    It was expected that the voucher scheme would be scaled up based on lessons
learned from the GFRP funded long rains 2009 season. Available FAO and Government
funding allowed for modest coverage of other districts during 2009, and it was expected
that additional donor and Government financing would be available for 2010. This
expectation was realized. Based on the experience of the 2009 season, funding from the
European Union's Food Price Crisis Response (FPCR), managed by the World Bank,
included a component which allowed for further scale up of the NAAIAP input voucher
scheme.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

32.    See annex 5 ­ Beneficiary Survey Results




                                            7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

33.     Improvements made in the NAAIAP program based on lessons learned succeeded
in attracting substantial additional sources of direct funding for the voucher scheme from
the European Union and Government, allowing for scale up in the 2010 season. Funding
for capacity building for the private sector agro dealer network has also been increased,
as well as funds for the commercial credit scheme Kilimo Biashara in the form of a risk
guarantee scheme for commercial banks.


34.     The grant contributed to an ongoing larger national government voucher scheme
program, which allowed for learning and improvements to take place beyond the targeted
geographical area. Government and Donor support for the NAAIAP program has been
increased and farmers are progressing to the commercial loan component. Improvements
to the management of the voucher scheme should increase the effectiveness of the
program. The improved access to fertilizer and seed complements longer term
investments in agricultural productivity under the Kenya Agricultural Productivity
Program (KAPP) and through Kenya's participation in the East African Agricultural
Productivity Program. Each of these supports generation and dissemination of
agricultural technology, but does not directly increase access to affordable fertilizer.

35.     Several risks were evident at appraisal. The risk that rains would fail was
considered low because the selected area usually has reliable rain, but the risk was clearly
not negligible. Fiduciary risk was noted, based the robustness of control systems and
flow of funds systems in place at Ministry of Agriculture both at national and district
levels. It was not certain during design that communities and farmers would be able to
carry out the farmer selection process in a transparent manner.

36.     Although the lessons of this exercise are broadly positive, fertilizer voucher
schemes in general remain subject to risks of poor targeting (and hence low
sustainability) and risks of fraud and corruption in implementation. Hence the positive
experience under the project does not appreciably reduce the generic risks, and the
overall risk remains moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

37.    Preparation was done efficiently in accordance with the emergency procedures.




                                             8
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

38.     A Nairobi-based task team leader carried out World Bank supervision of the grant.
This allowed for regular and effective liaison with the government NAAIAP management
team at national level. Grant implementation was also well integrated in the policy
dialog and World Bank portfolio management processes, also led by the same task team
leader.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

39.    Preparation was timely and efficient. The project design was simple, and the
Bank's internal review was comprehensive. Supervision was undertaken regularly and
soundly.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

40.   The GoK made known its interest to use and scale-up an existing program, and
was open to suggestions for improvement and requirements for monitoring.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

41.     Despite a late start, beneficiary selection was carried out largely according to
guidelines and inputs distributed through qualified agro dealers. Due to logistical
weaknesses, larger agro dealers supported a network of dealers to achieve the input
distribution targets. Cash flow problems slowed reimbursement of dealers.

42.    Future improvements should include the use of a simplified and computerized
voucher system including the use of scratch cards for voucher redemption. The flow of
funds system is a critical constraint and should be improved to ensure timely payment of
suppliers, many of whom are small businesses with limited capital.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

43.    The Borrower participated well in preparation and the implementing agency
performed adequately.


                                                   9
6. Lessons Learned

      Vouchers can be used effectively in a post-conflict setting if the necessary
      organizational structures for retailing and redemption of coupons are intact.
      Targeted areas were the most affected by post election violence. Over one
      hundred returning Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) who received inputs were
      able to produce enough for a small surplus after their household requirements
      were met. The public meetings concerning the voucher scheme involved local
      peace committees, which integrated messages on peace and food production. The
      grant also influenced NGOS working with displaced people to structure their
      support using similar methodologies.

      Private dealers can and will participate effectively. Use of the private sector has
      proven effective, despite the constraints. Agro dealers report demand for hybrid
      seed and appropriate fertilizer increased in the season following the voucher
      distribution. In addition the reputation of the extension staff has been enhanced
      through the linkage between provision of advisory services and the use of private
      agro dealers in the voucher scheme.

      An exit strategy through linkage with credit markets is highly desirable. The
      linkage of the voucher scheme with the credit market is critical. The success of
      the voucher scheme is evident as smallholder farmers are able to access credit for
      inputs through the complementary component of NAAIAP, Kilimo Biashara.

      Targeting and flows of funds constitute major challenges in implementation.
      Without strong mechanisms of social accountability, selection of beneficiaries
      under such schemes can be subject to fraud and corruption. Constraints in the
      flow of funds to districts and to agro dealers can undermine confidence that the
      vouchers will be redeemed or that product will be available in a timely manner,
      and can reduce effectiveness of the programs. The latter problems were
      experience under the present program in 2009, and largely remedied in the 2010
      planting season. The voucher scheme got an earlier start, the agro dealers were
      better prepared, and the stakeholders better knew the rules of the program.

      A well managed voucher program can forestall return to public intervention in
      supply and distribution of fertilizer, and build essential private presence in the
      sector. Support to a relatively small grant scheme has informed design of the
      larger government program and has had influence on the overall government
      policy towards input supply. The support enhanced the client's view of the World
      Bank as a reliable partner in times of crisis. It also provided a good model and
      confidence for the European Union to finance both components of the overall
      NAAIAP program, the voucher scheme and the credit scheme. These outcomes
      of the program justify the relatively high transactions cost (for project preparation,
      supervision, and subsequent reporting) for this relatively small grant.




                                           10
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


(b) Cofinanciers


(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                      11
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                         Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                     Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                            millions)
Input Vouchers and related costs            0.00                 5.00

            Total Baseline Cost             0.00                5.00
Physical Contingencies
                                            0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                            0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs            0.00                5.00
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required               0.00                5.00




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                        millions)    millions)
Borrower                                             0.00         0.00         .00
Special Financing                                    5.00         0.00         .00




                                              12
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

All outputs are attributed to the one component.




                                           13
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

No economic or financial analysis was undertaken. A very simple benefit/cost ratio
assumes that all other inputs (primarily labor) would have been invested in the project
area in the counterfactual (without project) case, and that the application of US$5 million
in fertilizer and seed produced higher yields and incremental value of approximately
US$11.8 million. Given the short duration of the project, no discounting is applied and a
benefit/cost ratio of about 2 is obtained. Had rains been normal, the benefits would have
been higher.




                                            14
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                              Title               Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Andrew Karanja Mwihia       Sr. Agriculture Economist           AFTAR TTL
Christine Cornelius         Program Coordinator                 AFTAR Team member
Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza   Sr. Counsel                         LEGAF Team member
                            Sr. Financial Management
Henry Amena Amuguni                                             AFTFM Team member
                            Specialist
Almaz Teklesenbet           Program Assistant                   AFTAR   Team member
Dahir Warsame               Sr. Procurement Specialist          AFTPC   Team member
Ladisy Chengula             Sr. Environ. Specialist             AFTEN   Team member
Monika Okwirry              Program Assistant                   AFCE2   Team member
Nyambura Githagui           Sr. Social Development Specialist   AFTCS   Team member
Tom Owiyo                   Consultant M&E                      AFTAR   Team member

Supervision/ICR
Andrew Karanja Mwihia       Sr. Agriculture Economist           AFTAR   TTL
Christine Cornelius         Program Coordinator                 AFTAR   Team member
Boniface Njoro Mburu        Consultant                          AFTAR   Team member
Monika Okwirry              Program Assistant                   AFCE2   Team member




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                              USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
                            Total:                                      36,528.75
Supervision/ICR
                            Total:                                      65,798.48




                                              15
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

                    Executive summary from the evaluation report

1.     The Agriculture Inputs Supply Project (AISP) is financed under the Global Food
Crisis Response Program (GFRP) out of the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund
(FPCRTF) of the World Bank. The project was to be implemented between March 2009
and June 2010. This report highlights the findings of the rapid assessment of the project
impact conducted between February 20th 2010 and March 3rd, 2010.

2.       To conduct this survey, the study team collected both quantitative and qualitative
data from primary and secondary sources. The field interviews were conducted through
key informant interviews with 100 smallholder farmers spread across the six program
districts namely; Eldoret East, Eldoret West, Wareng, Trans Nzoia East, Trans Nzoia
West and Kwanza. In addition, the study team conducted at least one focus group
discussion with stakeholder groups that selected some of the beneficiaries as well as
members of a cereal bank that benefited from the project.

3.      This study found that the AISP financed the distribution of inputs to 47,135 out of
the 50,000 targeted beneficiaries at a cost of Kshs 331m. This represents about 94 percent
of the target which is way above the 80 percent threshold where projects are considered
successful. Furthermore, savings from the original amount will support another 8,000
farmers in April 2010 season thereby surpassing the project target. Kaplamai Division in
Trans Nzoia East District and Kiminini and Central Divisions in Trans Nzoia West
District had the highest concentration of beneficiaries while the most sparsely distributed
beneficiaries of the input voucher scheme were in Moiben and Ainabkoi Divisions in
Eldoret East District and Soy Division in Eldoret West District because these divisions
have large scale farms. In general the project beneficiaries were small scale farmers who
comprised both subsistence farmers and returning internally displaced persons (IDPs)
especially in Ainabkoi Division.

4.      During the project design, it was anticipated that beneficiaries would be identified
through an elaborate process involving holding public meetings at location and sub-
location levels. The criteria for beneficiary selection included: a) low income and limited
farm size, b) ability and intention to produce maize in at least one acre; c) membership of
farmer groups for ease of training and logistical support; d) willingness to join cereal
banks and participate in warehouse receipting for efficient marketing of surpluses; e) land
preparation complete before receipt of inputs; f) priority to women and child headed
households. Most District Agricultural Officers (DAOs) and the community leaders made
commendable effort to apply the guidelines in identifying beneficiaries in this project
namely: poor widows, orphans, handicapped and elderly farmers and even people living
with AIDS.

5.      Overall, most stakeholders followed the project guidelines in selecting
beneficiaries. However, in some areas the selection process was compromised by local
political interference and administrative challenges. For instance, in some communities,


                                            16
village elders selected beneficiaries secretly thus selecting their friends and relatives as
beneficiaries. In other areas, local opinion leaders especially politicians incited those who
were not selected to demand their share of the inputs arguing that since those inputs were
provided by government, then everyone had a right to them regardless of their social
circumstances.

6.       Out of the 47,135 acres of maize planted in a normal year, based on historical
       1
trends , it was expected that the farmers would harvest 941,500 bags of maize. However,
this assessment suggests that only 605,350 bags were harvested representing 64 percent
of the target. This low production was largely attributed to low rainfall that was received
in most of the project areas in 2009. As part of the spin-offs of the AISP, the provincial
administration used the input distribution activities to promote peace and agricultural
extension messages in areas that were most affected by the post election violence.
Another spin-off of the AISP was that it influenced other development partners namely:
World Vision (Kenya), Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare (AMPATH),
International Organization of Migration (IOM) and Catholic Relief Services (CRS) to
structure agricultural support using input voucher scheme along the model of NAAIAP.
Finally, the AISP helped some farmers especially returning IDPs who harvested a crop to
be more independent than before the project when they relied on handouts.

7.      However, the project encountered time, social, political and institutional
constraints during implementation. The project activities were carried out within a very
short-time frame which overstretched the capacity of the implementation departments and
compromised the quality of the selection process. As a result of this capacity gap,
selection of beneficiaries in some areas was hijacked by village headmen, chiefs, local
political and social interests. For instance, farmers staged two demonstrations over
alleged irregularities in Moiben and Ainabkoi divisions. The first demonstration occurred
on 1st April 2009 in Moiben division while the second one occurred on 16th May 2009 at
Naiberi, Ainabkoi division. In both instances, some local politicians alleged that the
DAOs had `sold' or `diverted' inputs meant for the local community. These allegations
were found to have been based on misinformation about the program and not on facts.
The second constraint was the use of government institutions to vet beneficiaries and
distribute inputs. The fact that inputs were being distributed by GoK meant that
everybody felt they were entitled and that nobody could exclude them. This sense of
entitlement was used by local politicians particularly councilors to incite communities
against both the extension staff and some stockist as happened in Matisi slums in Kitale
town.

8.      Delay in paying stockists precipitated delays in supplying inputs because they
could not replenish their stocks when their working capital was tied in debt. Payments for
stockist were delayed from the expected two months to almost four months. This
compromised the cash-flow of small stockists and only the ones able to arrange for credit
with suppliers managed to survive. Finally, distribution of inputs was not well


1
 This refers to normal weather with additional fertilizer as provided under the subsidy
program and not the normal yields without fertilizer.



                                             17
coordinated nor time bound in some districts. As a result, some stockist preferred to
deliver inputs to short distances and avoided areas that were far thus compromising input
distribution and timing.

9.      Finally, majority of the stockists in this program were unable to access credit from
Equity Bank because they found the conditions to be too stringent. Subsequently, they
either dropped out of the scheme after running out of operating capital or sought credit
from other sources.

10.      To enhance impact in future input voucher schemes, this study recommends:

         Recruitment of farmers and stockist should start in November through December
         to allow adequate time to screen the selected beneficiaries. The inputs should be
         distributed by February before the long rains and the stockists should be paid
         within one month after supplying the inputs.

         The Ministry of Agriculture should explore modalities of partnering with other
         credible local institutions including faith based organizations to improve targeting
         and to cushion officers against negative social and political pressure to
         compromise the selection criteria.

         The Ministries of Finance and Agriculture should streamline the bottlenecks in
         the financial flows in order to ensure that they pay stockists promptly. One way
         would be to operate the NAAIAP through a special account outside the control of
         the exchequer modeled along the line of the National Aids Control Council or the
         Kenya Roads Board.

         Ministry of Agriculture needs to work in partnership with the financial services
         industry to significantly expand access to services among lower income farming
         households. The primary focus should be to improve the capacity of the financial
         services industry to mobilize savings and redirecting investment in form of inputs
         during the planting season. This would entail developing suitable partnerships
         with NGOs such as AGMARK that have tested this model on a small scale to see
         the opportunity for scaling up.

         The World Bank should diversify its partnerships with other financial
         intermediaries to channel support to stockists and farmers.

         Paperwork should be simplified and voucher scheme computerized to reduce
         drudgery. However, the evaluation also suggests that drudgery in paperwork may
         have discouraged petty corruption.

         The project should allocate more resources to support supervision of input
         distribution because leakages of inputs during distribution would reverse benefits
         of the whole scheme.

         Finally, the project should hire data analysts to mine the data and guide the staff
         in decision making.




                                             18
                      Monitoring and Evaluation Results Matrix


               Indicators                    Baseline       YR1       YR2   Cumulative
Impact
Incremental Maize production in targeted
                                             0          30,000    10,800    40,800
areas (tons)
Maize yields in targeted areas (bags/acre)   6          13        21        NA
% beneficiary households self sufficient
                                             20         50        87        NA
in Maize
Project Development Outcome
Farmers receiving seeds and fertilizers
                                             2,000      47,135    7,996     55,131
(number)
Farmers satisfied with inputs and advice
                                             70         N/A       88        88
received from dealers (%)
Intermediate Results
Farmers receiving vouchers (number)          2000       47,135    7,996     55,131
Farmers receiving agricultural advisory
                                             2000       47,135    7,996     55,131
services (number)
Vouchers reimbursed within four weeks
                                             50         0         0         0
by MOA (%)
Fertilizer distributed to farmers (tons)     200        4,713     800       5,513
Seed distributed to farmers (tons)           20         471       80        551
Agro-dealers trained (number)                25         45        108       153
Implementation progress reports and
financial monitoring reports available       N/A        Yes       Yes       Yes
monthly/quarterly
Up-to-date M&E information available
                                             N/A        Yes       Yes       Yes
monthly/quarterly




                                             19
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Combined with Evaluation Report. See Annex 5.




                                       20
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

See Annex 5.




                                  21
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    22
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


      Boniface N. Mburu, Draft Evaluation of Agricultural Inputs Supply Project, April
      21, 2010.




                                         23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33426R


                                                                                                           K E N YA
                                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS

                                          PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                     RAILROADS

                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                          RIVERS                                                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




              34°E                                               36°E                                                             38°E                                                         40°E                                                  42°E


       S U DAN                                                      To Murle
               To
              Juba          Lotikipi
                                         Plain
                                                        Karungu
                                                                                                                                             ETHIOPIA
                            Lokichokio
                                                                                   al bi
                                                                               Ch alb i                                                                                                                                                                  To 4°N
4°N
                                                                               D e se r t                                                                   To                                                               Ramu        Mandera         Imi
                                    Kakuma                                                                                                                  Dila




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lls
                                                                             Lak e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Hi
                                                                                                          North Horr                     Sololo
                                                                             Tur k an a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sa
                                                                                                                                                                     Moyale




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                         Lodwar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                   el
                                              Turkw




                                                                                                                                                                                    Buna                         El Wak



      U G A N DA                                             Lokichar
                                                                                                 South Horr
                                                                                                                                    Marsabit                                                  Tarbaj
                                             R I F T VA L L E Y                                                              .
                                                                                                                         tns
2°N                                                                     Kangatet                                     M                                                                                                                                          2°N
                                                                                                                to
                                                                                                           do                                                               Log
                                       am                                                            N                                                                         aB                    Wajir
                                     Su C                                                                                                                                           og
                                             her                                                                                                                                       al                    Lak B
                                                 an                                                                                                                                                                or
                                                                                                 Milgis




                                              Hil gan
                                                 ls   y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOM AL I A
                                                                                                                                                         'iro                                 Bilesha Plain
                    To
                                         Kitale                                             Maralal                                                Ng
                   Mbale                                            Kapedo
                                                                                                                                         Ewaso                  Mando
                                                                                                                         Archer's
                                                                                                                         Post                    Garba
                                                                                                                                                                 Gashi                 NORTH
          To
        Kampala                                    Eldoret         Marigat
                                                                                                                                                 Tula                                 EASTERN
                     WESTERN                                                                                                                              Mbalambala
                     Kakamega                                                                                            Isiolo                                                                                       era          To
                                                                Nyahururu                                                                                                                                     Lak D             Kismaayo
                     Butere
                                                                     Falls                                                 EASTERN
0°                                                                                                    Nanyuki                                                                                                                                                    0°
                                                                                                          Mt. Kenya
                                                                                                                                       a




                           Kisumu
                                                                                                                                    Tan




                                                                                                          (5,199 m)
                                                           Nakuru                      Nyeri
                                                Kericho                                                                                                                                     Garissa
                  N YA N Z A                                        Gilgil         CENTRAL                           Embu
                                                                                                                                             Nguni
                     Karungu
      Lake                                     a
                                                                NAIROBI
                                         M   ar                   AREA                      Thika
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bura
Victoria            To                                          Narok
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kolbio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bur Gavo
                  Musoma            Lolgorien            Ma                                      NAIROBI                                                                                                     Ngang
                                                               u E                                                                   Kitui                                                                         erab
                                                                   sc       arp                                                                                                                                         eli
                                                                                                             Machakos                             Thua                                                         Plain
                                                                                  me
                                                                                       nt   Konza                                                                        COAST
                                                                 Magadi                                                                                                                                                     Bodhei
2°S                                                                                                                        Ya t t        Ikutha                             i                                                                                   2°S
                                                   To                                                                               a                                    Ath
                                                Seronera                                                                                 Pla
                                                                                                                                               tea                                          Garsen                           Lamu
                                                                                                                                    Kibwezi          u
                                                                                             Namanga

                                                                                    To
                                                                                  Arusha
                                                                                                                                                 Tsavo
                                                                                                                                                                           Galana
                                                                                                                                    Tsavo
                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                             Moshi                                 Vol                                                 Malindi                INDIAN
             KENYA                                                TANZ ANIA                                                                                          Mackinnon
                                                                                                                                                                     Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O CEA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the Map Design Unit of The       4°S
                                                                                                                                                                                            Mombasa                            World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                     Kwale                                                     colors, denominations and
                                                                        0         40        80        120            160         200 Kilometers                                                                                any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                Shimoni                                        Group, any judgment on the
                                                                        0              40                   80              120 Miles                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                 Dar Es Salaam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               acceptance of such
              34°E                                               36°E                                                             38°E                                                         40°E                            boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MARCH 2008
