Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7141
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MORCCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2114-MOR)
February 24, 1988
Country Department II
Industry and Energy Division
EMENA Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRUCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 1981)
Currency Unit           Dirham (Dh)
US$1.00                 US$0.19
DH 1.00                 Dh 5.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel                                  159 litres
1 gallon per short ton (gal/t)            4.2 litres per metric ton
(equals about 0.4Z by
weight)
1 dxetric ton                             1,000 kilograms
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)             1.5 toss of coal equivalent
llSONm  natural gas
ABBREVIATIONS
BRPM           Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres
DMK            Davy KcKee, Inc.
ONAREP         Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations
P4troli4res
ONE            Office National de l'Electricitk
SAI            Science Applications, Inc.
bpd            barrels per day
toe            metric ton of oil equivalent
tpy            metric tons per year
MOROCCAN FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USK ONLY
TnE WORLD BANK
Wa*sften. D.C. 2033
US.A.
Opw&tku EVAhtmi
February 24, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Morocco
Oil Shale Engineerirg Project (Loan 2114-MOR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Morocco Oil Shale Engineering Project (Loan
2114-MOR)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office. Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Department has not been made. 
Attachment
I Ths document has a nsricted dstribution and may be used by mcipients only in te pMfom
of their ofical dutie Its contents may not otherwie be dbiowsed without Wodd Bonk authodutlon.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2114-MOR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
i
i~~~~ AIDAASET.......  ..... .......... ...                                           i
I *                                                                            INRDCIN~....................... 
HI*   PROJECT BACKGROUND.... .e... o ... ........ ..... .......... ..           2
Orig'in of Praoject... .....e.. .........s...e..e....e....           2
Project Preparation and Appraisal.....         ..................    3
Project Objectives and Scope.o......................                 4
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANACEIEN....................... 2
Achievement of Objectives and Change in Project Scope...             5
Project Management ....................................              6
Time and Cssts                                                       6
Procurement.....  ...  ..............    7
7
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE...............R                                7
The Boer o.e r                                                       7
Consultants.... .. .... ...  .........    8
V.   BANK PERFORMANCER F..........eO    R    M     A    N     CE....................  9
Timing of Involvement..v o lv... .e         m e nt.  ........... ....  9
Project Formulation and Designs              i     gn.....o...e...........e  9
Supervision...... . ... ...... . .............. ........ . .... .   10
C o v e     n      a      n      t     s          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
VI.   CONLSONC                  LUooe*ooo***** I**ONSeooooooo                  10
ANNEX
Project Cost.....   ..... , ..a    .                 a,. .     ,.,. . . . .12
ATTACHMENT
Co!ments from the Borrower..................... .   ,13
This document has a stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2114-MOR)
PREFACE
Oil shale is Morocco's major energy resource. Large deposits were
discovered and explored after the First Oil Crisis of 1973. Soon after,
preliminary tests and studies to evaluate the characteristics of the resource
were carried out. Immediately after the Second Oil Crisis of 1979, the First
Petroleum Exploration Project was launched and, in parallel, the Oil Shale
Engineering Project was prepared. The Bank's involvement led to a rational,
stepwise approach to Moroccan oil shale development at a time when inter-
national oil companies were spending large amounts and the Moroccans had plans
to develop rapidly an industry based on own technology. With the decline of
the oil price in 1986, the Moroccans adjusted their oil shale activities to an
appropriate level. Only the advanced and major components were completed.
The project was terminated at the Government's request in 1986 with a total
expenditure of US$11.3 equivalent, 56X below appraisal estimate. The Bank
disbursed US$7.3 million; the remainder of the loan (US$12.7 million) was
cancelled.
This report was prepared by the EMENA Regional Office and is based
on a review of Bank files, on a report prepared by the borrower (ONAREP) and
on the result of a project completion mission carried out in June 1987.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
FollowinR standard Procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report
to the Borrower for its comments. The comments which were received have been
taken into account in preparing the final report and they are reproduced as
an Attachment.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2114-MOR)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Estimate       Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                          25.7          11.3
Underrun ()                                              -            56
Cost of Fixed Assets (USS million)                     10.5           7.4
Studies and Working Capital (US$ million)              15.2           6.9
Financing (USs million)
IBRD                                                   20.0           7.3
Moroccan Government                                     5.7           4.0
Loan Amount (US$ million)                                 20.0           7.3
Disbursed and Outstanding                              20.0           7.3
Cancelled                                                -           12.7
Pilot Plant Construction Completion                     July '83       Nov. '84
Test Program Completion                                 July '84       Oct. '86
Oil Recovery (Z)                                           85            65
Institutional Performance                                   -     Satisfactory
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
As of June 30,            1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
(i)  Appraisal Estimate           0.4     7.4    15.6    18.1    19.9    20.0
(ii)  Actual                        -      0.9     4.1      6.6     7.3     7.3
(iii)  (ii) as Z of (i)              -       12      26       36      37      37
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan    Actual
First Mention in Files (date)                               -          10/26/77
Government's Application (date)                             -          Jan. '80
Negotiation (date)                                       04/27/81      10/07/81
Board Approval (date)                                    06/23/81      03/25/82
Loan Agreement Date                                         -          04/15/82
Effectiveness Date                                       07/14/82      02/25/83
Closing Date                                             09/30/86      09/30/86
Borrower                                                   BRPM         ONAREP
Executing Agency                                           BRPM         ONAREP



- ili -
MISSION DATA
Month    No. of      No. of                 Date of
year      weeks     persons    Manweeks  report
Identification             06/80       2.0          1          2.0
Preparation                10/80       2.0         6          12.0      12/31/80
Appraisal                  02/81       2.0          3          6.0      02/23/81
Supervision I              04/82       1.0         3           3.0      05/04/82
Supervision II             08/82       1.0          1          1.0      08/24/82
Supervision III            04/83       1.0          1          1.0
Supervision IV             04/84       0.5          1          0.5      05/22/84
Supervision V              05/85       0.5          1          0.5      05/23/85
Supervision VI             07/86       0.5          1          0.5      08/19/86
PCR                        06/87       0.5          1          0.5      11/23/87
Total                                                    27.0
STAFF INPUT
(Staff-weeks)
Bank FY      1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988   Total
Preappraisal         6    30                                                   36
Appraisal                 48                                                   48
Negotiations               4    12                                             15
Supervision                      9      6     3      3     3     3             27
PCR                                                              3      6       9
Total            6    82    21      6     3     3      3     6     6      136
CURRENCf EXCHUNGE RATES
Name of Currency                     Dirham (Dh)
Appraisal Year (1981)                US$1 - Dh 5.3
Intervening Years Average            US$1 - Dh 8.0
Completion Year (1986)               US$1 - Dh 9.1



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2114-MOR)
HIGHLIGHTS
The project constituted the initial phase of a possible commercial
development of an oil shale industry in Morocco. The proposed project
components were:  (a) construction and operation of a test station, based on
the T3 process, for recovery of oil from shale; (b) a comprehensive
feasibility study of a commercial oil shale mine and plant; and (c) comparison
of the economics of oil extraction with direct combustion of the shale in
power plants. Only part (a) and portion of part (b) were completed, as a
consequence of adjustments to the decline of the oil price. The project was
terminated in December 1986 at a cost of US$11.3 equivalent, about 12 months
later than estimated and at about 451 of budgeted total project cost (the
completed portions represent about 701 of the original total scope). The
project implementation did not present major problems and institutional
performance was good. However, operating results (oil yields) of the test
station stayed below expectations. The main lessons which can be derived for
similar projects are: (i) Bank and Borrower should always be highly aware of
the possible negative impact of boom periods on project design and cost;
(ii) technology selection should only be based on rational, technical and
economic grounds; and (iii) particular care must be taken not to oversize the
components or prejudge in any way the results of a research project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERINC PROJECT
(LOAM 2114-MOR)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       Morocco has a wide variety of energy resources including:  oil,
natural gas, oil shale, coal, hydro, uranium, biomass, wind and solar
energy. However, the currently known reserves are either small or have high
per unit costs of production, with the result that there has been only limited
domestic commercial energy development. Oil exploration has found only small
reserves, and production is less than 20,000 tons per year. Limited reserves
of natural gas have been discovered and production is almost negligible-
Morocco has proven coal reserves of about 12 million tons in the Jerada coal
basin; but because they are difficult to exploit, there i. no prospect for a
major increase in production beyond the current project to increase output to
about 1 million tons per year. The country's hydro power potential is
estimated at 4,600 GWh per year (1.1 million toe) under average hydrological
conditions. Of this potential 1,800 GWh have already been tapped and new
projects with an annual production of 300 GWh are under construction. Imports
(oil 95%, coal 5Z) supply about 882 of commercial energy demand and represent
about 30% of total merchandise imports. Oil shale development, if economic,
could reduce the import dependency: there is a vast amoutt of reserves at
Timahdit in Central Morocco, and at Tarfaya, in South Morocco. In Timahdit
alone the proven open pit mineable reserves of shale, with an acceptable grade
(17 gal/t) and relatively good mining and processing conditions would be
sufficient to supply the 17ountry for more than 30 years with about 50Z of its
present oil consumption.,
1.2       Since 1980, the Bank has been involved in financing energy projects
aimed at reducing the oil import burden on the Moroccan e2nomy. There were
two loans for exploration and development of oil and gas - totalling US$115.2
million, a US$27.0 million loan for modernization and expansion of the Jerada
coal mine and the US$20.0 million loan for this project. The disbursements
for oil shale development were limited to US$7.3 million and represent 5% of
the Bank's loans for all Moroccan energy projects after 1980 and 0.3% of the
Bank's disbursed and outstanding loan amounts for Morocco.
1/   This would require an oil production of about 50,000 bpd from about
40 million tpy of shale.
2/   First Petroleum Exploration Project (Ln. S-18), 1980, and Second
Petroleum Exploration Project (Ln. 2271), 1983.



- 2 -
II. PROJECT BACKCROUND
Origin of Proiect
2.1       In 1974, immediately after the first oil crisis, the Bureau de
Recherches et de Participations Minieres (BRPM) discovered the two large oil
shale deposits at Timahdit and Tarfaya. Intensive drilling, in total covering
about 60 drillholes at an estimated cost of about US$20 million, was carried
out at that time. In 1976, preliminary mining studies were contracted to
Tosco, USA, and Kloeckner-Lurgi of Germany. At about the same time
preliminary studies of oil shale retorting processes were contracted to major
known process holders, mainly in the US (Tosco, Occidental, Paraho and Union
Oil), the USSR and Japan. In total, about 1,000 tonnes of shale were shipped
to these firms for testing in laboratories. The total cost of studies and
tests was aoout US$3.0 million equivalent, financed out of the Government's
budget through BRPM.
2.2       Parallel to the outside contracting, BRPM started to develop its own
testing facilities for oil shale retorting. Initially, a batch retort for a
shale mass of 200 kg was built in BRPM's laboratory at Rabat. After its
successful operation, a 3-tonne batch retort and thereafter a 50-tonne batch
'etort were built at the site of the Timahdit shale deposit.  The equipment
aWd instrumentation used in thse tests were crude.  The idea of retorting
shale in batch type reactors 3  is not new, and several efforts to apply this
technology have been made, in p-rticular in Europe at wartime when other
energy sources were restricted. The Moroccan engineers managed well to apply
this technology to the Timahdit shale in a short time and without major
difficulties. Despite their simple tools they were able to control the
process reasonably well and succeeded in extracting about 30,000 liters of oil
from auout 800 tonnes of shale. The cost of this testwork was about US$1.0
million equivalent. The successful work of that time led the engineers
involved to search for ways of perfecting this or a comparably simple process.
2.3       Through its contacts with US companies BRPM learned that the US
scientific consulting firm Science Applications Incorporated (SAI) had
accumulated consterable experience in retorting shale in large underground
in-situ caverns.-   Contacts with this company were established, and in
cooperatiton with the Moroccan engineers, the SAI experts developed and
3/   Oil shale is burned in a steel vessel filled with shale.  The temperature
and progress of combustion is regulated through the flow of air. The hot
off-gass passing through the shale releases and carries away hydro-
carbons, which are then distilled from the off-gas through cooling.
4/   This process was tested at that time by the Occidental Oil Company in
Colorado. The principles of the process are quite comparable to the
method used by the Moroccans.



promoted the idea of the T3 process,5/ an improved version of the batch
retorting used by the Moroccans. With the background of the important shale
discoveries in Morocco, the high level of international oil shale development
activities at that time and the successful Moroccan retorting tests, the T3
proposal soon found support at a high governmental level and it was decided to
develop this process to a commercial scale. It was at this point that the
first contacts with the Bank were made for financing an oil shale development
project.
Project PreparAtion and Appraisal
2.4       In February 1980, BRPM contracted a prefeasibility study of a
commercial T3 oil shale plant to SAI at a cost of US$0.3 million, financed
from its own funds. As a result of this study, SAI and BRPM initially wanted
to go ahead quickly with the engineering and construction of a demonstration
prototype T3 unit of 5,000 t shale capacity, which would be a building block
for a commercial plant. Bank staff from the Energy Department (EGY) and the
Industrial Projects Department (IPD), cautioned about such an approach and
BRPM decided to sign an additional contract with SAI in July 1980 for
comparisor. of known retorting processes, design of a testing program for the
T3 process and preliminary design of a T3 pilot plant. The July 1980
contract, valued at US$1.5 million, was Bank-financed under a special
allocation within the First Petroleum Exploration Loan.
2.5       Because of the increased momentum of oil shale development in the
world in general, and in Morocco in particular, mixed with a certain Moroccan
pride and enthusiasm for developing a national, appropriate technology, there
was a risk at the time that the Government would embark on an overly ambitious
program in a technically/economically uncertain field with a pre-determined
tachnology largely selected on political and emotional rather than
scientific/technical and economic grounds. The Bank's efforts were aimed from
the beginning at adopting a cautious stepwise approach to oil shale develop-
ment. Bank staff also felt that the studies contracted to SAI in July 1980
were too limited in scope: they focused on retorting and did not include
mining, infrastructure, oil treatment and other shale utilization. The
Moroccan authorities came to accept this view, end agreement was reached on an
oil shale engineering project, to be financed by the Bank, which would include
in addition to studies also the construction of an oil shale retorting test
facility.
2.6       An oil shale retorting test facility as part of the project was
highly desirable for several reasons: (i) it would provide an opportunity to
learn more about the characteristics of the Moroccan shale; (ii) it would
provide an opportunity to train Moroccan eniineers; (iii) it would maintain
the momentum in Moroccan oil shale developme&t at relatively low cost; and
(iv) it would enable the Moroccans to improve their negotiating position
5/   So named for three main Moroccan oil shale deposits.  The process con-
sists of a pair of coupled batch retorts, with a burning and cooling
retort. Water added to the combustion air evaporates to steam, aiding
temperature regulation of the burning retort and preheating of the
cooling retort.



- 4 -
vis-a-vis foreign companies for a later commercial plant development. The
Bank's technical staff were from the beginning skeptical about the appro-
priateness of basing the test facility on any one process. Advice was
obtained from independent oil shale experts, from well-known international
engineering firms as well as from oil companies involved in oil shale
development. It was established that no definite selection oi any of the more
modern retorting processes could be made at the current preliminary stage of
development and that a more universal plant which could test several processes
did not exist and its development would be costly. All the experts consulted
agreed that for the purposes of testing oil shale retorting, a small T3 unit
would be one of the lowest cost options available. As for the size of the
unit, it was determined that the grain size of shale to be retorted would
range from about ½ to 3 inches, based on theoretical calculations and a common
practice among other process holders who also use coarsely crushed shale for
retorting. To guarantee a sufficiently even flow of gas in the retort, SAI
determined that the diameter of the retort should be about 3 meters as a
minimum. This led to a retort of 80 t shale capacity, a size which was
considered necessary by SAI also for testing the charging and discharging
mechanism of the retort.
Project Objectives and Scope
2.7       The project was appraised in February 1981.  The objective of the
project was to generate information and analysis on the characteristics of
Moroccan shale resources and on the technical and economic viability of the
alternative options for their development, taking into account Morocco's
constraints, so that the Government could make an informed decision regarding
future investments in oil shale. The project consisted of the following
components:
(a) construction and operation of a test station at Timahdit. This
component was included for the reasons explained above
(para. 2.6). A T3 pilot plant was chosen with a vessel capacity of
80 tonnes. At the request of the Bank, technical assistance from a
fully qualified engineering firm had to be obtained before construc-
tion started in order to review design and safety aspects and to
assist with procurement and supervision of construction. In addi-
tion it was agreed that no major step for any proceas development in
Morocco would be taken without conclusive results from a study com-
paring several promising processes;
(b) preparation of a comprehensive feasibility study of commercial oil
shale retorting operations at Timahdit, divided into separate compo-
nents for the mine and for the retorting plant and infrastructure.
This study was to address technical, financial, economic and
environmental aspects of the development of a major, complex project
which includes mining, material handling, retorting, oil processing
and related infrastructure for transport, electricity and water;
(c) comparison of the economics of shale retorting with direct combus-
tion in power plants. This component was included at the request of
the Bank because at the time there were serious efforts by the
Government to embark also on a project of electricity generation



- 5 -
from oil shale,#6 in parallel to the retorting for oil recovery.
The comparative advantages/disadvantages of either option were to be
made clear before a decision on any major development step was
taken.
For all project components, technical assistance from highly qualified
engineering firms was to be obtained.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
Achievement of Objectives and Change in Project Scope
3.1       The project objectives were only partly achieved.  While the project
has certainly contributed to collecting more information on the Moroccan oil
shale resources and on the technical/economic viability of their development,
it has not enabled the Government to make an informed decision on what future
investments in oil shale it should make if this question should arise again.
Only one projecc component, construction and operation of the pilot plant, has
been completed fully and for one other component, the feasibility study of a
commercial project, only the mining portion has been completed. No work was
done on any of the other components. The scope of work was reduced as a
reaction o a major change in environment. Oil prices declined drama-
tically. As a consequence, nearly all oil shale development projects in the
world were halted or drastically reduced. It is now widely believed that oil
shale development can become economically viable only if oil prices rise above
US$40 per barrel.
3.2       Given the major external changes, the reduction of the project scope
was appropriate. In 1982, when it became clear that any oil shale project
would not be viable in the medium run, all equipment purchases for the pilot
plant were already committed and the plant's construction was well. underway.
It was therefore decided to complete the construction but carry through a
reduced test program at low cost. As a result it has now been demonstrated
that the Moroccan engineers could start up and operate the plant without major
difficulties, but that the T3 process has major flaws in performance (through-
put and recovery rate were low) and in technical design (feeding, discharging
and coupling of retorts presented problems). The mining study also can be
regarded as an investment which is not fully wasted. It is now clear that the
Timahdit shale can be mined at relatively low co8 t, in an open-pit of ini-
tially 4 million tpy shale production capacity.-   Pit limits and mining
technology have been outlined. By concentrating on the two tasks, pilot plant
6/ The Government, through its electricity company ONE, had contracted
studies for a large (1000 MW) oil shale fired power plant at Timahdit.
7/ From a level of above US$30 per barrel at the time of appraisal to below
US$20 in 1986.
8/ With a yield of about 6000 bpd of oil, or 5Z of present national
consumption.



- 6 -
and mining study, and completing both of them, the Moroccans managed to limit
expenditures to about 44% of the appraisal estimate, while still obtaining
useful and conclusive results.
3.3       In retrospect it can be concluded that both the pilot plant and the
mining study were relatively expensive. For the pilot plant a laboratory
scale plant rather than an open air plant would have been preferable. For the
mining study it would have been preferable to focus on the open-pit option and
reduce the investigation of underground mining. However, given the momentum
of oil shale development at the time of appraisal and the fact that the
Moroccans initially favored a much faster and larger development, the defini-
tion of the project components size was reasonable at the time.
Proje t Management
3.4       There was no major change in project management arrangements after
appraisal. ONAREP's oil shale division, a newly created entity (para. 4.1),
had overall project execution responsibility. Technical assistance was
obtained from SAI for the design and operation of the T3 pilot plant. Due to
SAI's lack of experience in engineering, it sub-contracted engineering of the
plant to Crescent Engineering Company of Denver, Colorado. Davy McKee (DMK)
of Cleveland, Ohio, was contracted by ONAREP in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines to review the design and safety aspects of the T3 pilot plant and
to assist ONAREP in procurement of equipment and supervision of construc-
tion. The mining study was contracted by ONAREP, in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines, to Morrison Knudson International (MKI) of Boise, Idaho.
3.5       In total, the arrangements were appropriate and worked reasonably
well. There were delays caused by the complicated set-up between SAI,
CRESCENT and DMK, and DMK's difficulties in providing a construction manager;
however, these delays were not critical to the project and did not result in
exceeded budgets, largely due to ONAREP's cost conscious management. Given
the decision to go ahead with a T3 pilot plant and given SAI's role as a
process developer rather than engineering firm, the tri-partite arrangement
between SAI, CRESCENT and DMK was probably the best available under the
circumstances.
Time and Costs
3.6       The construction of the pilot plant was completed in November 1984
at a total cost of US$7.4 million, about 16 months behind appraisal schedule
and 30% below the appraisal cost estimate (Annex). Delays were caused mainly
through the limited engineering expertise of ONAREP's con altant, SAI and
personnel changes of DMK, who provided construction supervision services. The
operation of the test plant was carried out over a period of 24 months to
December 1986, about 12 months longer than originally estimated. Already at
completion of construction, the decision to scale down activities had been
made. Compounded by difficulties in securing alternative employment for the
operating staff, ONAREP deliberately adopted a slow minimum test program. The
costs of carrying out this program are estimated to be in the order of US$1.5
million equivalent, of which US$0.5 million were in foreign exchange for the
services of SAI. The mining study was carried out over a period of 24 months



- 7 -
and completed in May 1985. The implementation is in line with the original
estimate. The costs for the mining study were US$1.5 million, 53Z below
budget. An amount of US$0.7 million (46% below budget) was spent for general
technical assistance, mainly support services of SAI for procurement and pilot
plant construction. An amount of US$0.2 million was transferred at Moroccan
request to Charbonnages du Maroc for completion of a feasibility study for
modernization and expansion of the Jerada Coal mine. The project was stopped
with a total cost of US$11.3 equivalent, of which US$7.1 million are in
foreign exchange, totally financed by the Bank. Whereas 70% of the original
project scope was completed (based on cost estimates at appraisal), the cost
amounted only to 44%. The savings are largely due to an overeftimation of
prices for equipment and studies at appraisal (prices fell due to an unfore-
seen increase in international competition). The loan was closed on September
30, 1986, at the originally foreseen date, with a total disbursement of US$7.3
million equivalent (US$7.1 million foreign cost and US$0.2 million local cost
for pilot plant construction); US$12.7 million were cancelled.
Procurement
3.7       About 95X of the equipment, as well as the mechanical and electrical
erection contracts representing in total a value of US$3.3 million, was pro-
cured through limited international bidding, the remainder of the equipment,
representing a value of US$0.1 million, was procured through prudent local
shopping. These procurement procedures were fully appropriate. No major
problems or inefficiencies were involved. Only in the beginning were there
some limited delays which were caused by insufficient familiarity with the
Bank's documentation requirements and a reluctance of the Moroccans to accept
the Bank's standard sample documents.
Reporting
3.8       ONAREP's reporting on this project has been neither regular nor in a
consistent form. However, this did not handicap the efficiency of project
execution given the reduction of oil shale development activities and the
deliberate slow-down in pilot plant construction and operation.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
The Borrower
4.1       At appraisal it had been foreseen that BRPM would be both the
borrower and the project executing agency. Shortly before the initially
planned negotiations (April 1980), Moroccan authorities decided that oil shale
development should be part of the responsibilities of a new organization,
Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres (ONAREP), which
was to be created to accommodate all oil and gas development activities in a
joint Bank/Government effort initiated under the First Petroleum Project to
reinforce institutional capabilities. A special unit, ONAREP's new oil shale
division, was to be responsible for oil shale development. Agreement on the
organization of the oil shale division and the transfer of personnel and



-8-
assets from BRPM to ONAREP postponed completion of loan negotiations to
October 1980, about 6 months later than initially foreseen. It was a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness that the transfer be fully completed and an audited
opening balance for ONAREP be available. The audit requirement caused a post-
ponement of loan effectiveness to February 1983, about 7 months later than
initially foreseen.
4.2       After these initial difficulties of establishing the new entity,
ONAREP's oil shale division quickly developed into an appropriate unit which
competently managed the project. Qualified additional staff was recruited to
supplement a cot ' of personnel from BRPM, and the division staff reached a
level of about 40 persons of which about 15 were engineers. ONAREP's oil
shale division not only executed the project well, but also succeeded in
attracting foreign partners for other oil shale development activities which
supplemented the project. In 1981, ONAREP signed a contract with Shell for
exploration and test work on the Tarfaya deposit. A surface mineable deposit
was clearly marked and, a successful demonstration mine was pwit into operation
and Moroccan engineers were introduced to the elements of a modern retorting
process in Shell's laboratories. The work was fully financed by Shell. More
recently, in 1985, ONAREP signed another research contract with the German
firm KWU for the early phase of a new process development.
4.3       When it became apparent that oil shale development would not be a
viable option, ONAREP stopped recruitment for the division and reduced the
division's staff to its present size of 13 persons through natural attrition
and transfers to other units. A further reduction to below 10 persons is
intended in the near future. The remaining staff will follow international
oil shale development through literature study and contacts with research
institutes, engineering companies and oil companies. The task appears justi-
fied given the development potential of Moroccan oil shale and the possibility
of future oil price increases. The remaining staff will also be ready to
initiate a future review of investment needs when oil prices reach suffici-
ently high levels. Such work could be financed by the Bank.
Consultants
4.4       Consultants were involved to provide technical assistance to
ONAREP's oil shale division for design and engineering of the T3 process and
the pilot plant, for procurement of equipment and for supervision of construc-
tion. ONAREP also contracted the execution of the mining study to a consul-
tant. In addition, other consultants were hired by the Bank during the
appraisal process to advise on technical aspects of oil shale retorting.
Overall, the consultant's performance was satisfactory and their input use-
ful. Without the consultants, the construction of the pilot plant would not
have been feasible and studies and overall project design would have had less
depth and more risks. However, there were a few shortcomings in the arrange-
ments for consultants services and in the quality of the work which are
explained below.
4.5       Pilot Plant Design and Construction.  Due to SAI's insufficient
experience as an engineering company, time was lost in reviewing and modifying
plans for the construction of major components of the plant. Additional



delays were caused by the tri-partite arrangement SAI/CRESCENT/DMK
(para. 3.4). In addition, DMK had problems in maintaining staff continuity,
in particular for the critical post of on-site manager for the construction in
Morocco. The personnel changes occurred as part of the company's major
restructuring efforts at that time, which included a reduction of involvement
in oil shale and synfuels development. DMK made, however, efforts to honor
its commitments under the contract with ONAREP and minimize delays. Consider-
ing its substantial personnel changes, it managed reasonably well to do so.
4.6       Mining Study.  The execution of this study was less tightly con-
trolled by ONAREP than the construction of the pilot plant. Lacking other
instructions from ONAREP, MKI spent a relatively large amount of time on
investigating alternatives, geology, hydro-geology and other general aspects
before concentrating on working out details of the major open-pit alternative
which then had to be terminated in relatively short time due to ONAREP's
reduction of the budget. Although the work was carried out in accordance with
the terms-of-reference, it is felt that MKI could have concentrated earlier
and more on the feasibility of the open-pit mine in order to optimize the
output.
V. BANK PERFORMANCE
Timing of Involvement
5.1       Although the first mention of Morocan oil shale development in the
Bank's files is in 1977, the Bank began project preparation only in 1980, at a
time when oil shale development activities worldwide reached a peak. There
was pressure then, both from the Moroccan Government and from within the Bank,
to formulate a project. Oil companies spent large amounts on oil shale devel-
opment and consultants working in this area could secure sizeable contracts.
Concerns about the project's costs at that time had less weight than they
would have had at a more normal time. The project's components would have
probably been quite similar if the project had commenced at a different time;
however, the size of the pilot plant would likely have been smaller and the
budget for the studies lower. The optimum timing of the Bank's involvement
would probably have been in 1976/77 when BRPM had completed the geological
evaluation of its important oil shale discoveries and first laboratory retort-
ing tests and was beginning to look for technology but had not yet entered
into a contract with SAI.
Project Formulation and Design
5.2       While the Bank, in particular its Industrial Projects Department,
entered late, it still contributed significantly to the project formulation,
design and implementation arrangements. The discussions with the Moroccans at
the preparation and appraisal stages led to the adoption of a careful, step-
wise and comprehensive approach to oil shale development centered around the
important Timahdit deposit. Care was taken in the project design to ensure
that a decision on any following development step would be based on a thorough
evaluation of alternatives. The Bank assured that appropriate engineering for



- 10 -
the pilot plant was executed and that satisfactory arrangements for project
management were adopted before start of the construction.
Supervision
5.3       There were six supervision missions, less than for the average Bank
financed project. Given the timely adjustments made by ONAREP to cope with
the changing environment, the supervisory work by Bank staff, which included
also occasional telephone contacts, was appropriate. The missions and phone
contacts helped the Moroccans to decide on down-scaling project activities
while completing at low cost the key components already started and main-
taining an open view for any promising oil shale developments which may occur
outside Morocco.
Covenants
5.4       The Loan Agreement specified several special conditions of loan
effectiveness, concerning the orderly transfer of oil shale responsibility,
staff and assets from BRPM to ONAREP, the strengthening of ONAREP's oil shale
division, agreement on terms of reference for the technical evaluation of
retorting processes and finalization of arrangements for the study comparing
shale retorting with direct combustion. Although due to the only partial
execution of the project, not all covenants could be met, they were fully
justified at the time of appraisal.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.1       The scaling down of the project was an appropriate response to the
drastic change in its external environment. The components which were carried
out as originally planned were implemented satisfactorily. The lessons which
can be derived for similar projects, in fact for all projects dealing with a
research oriented development task on a new frontier, are:
(a) Bank and Borrower should be highly aware of the timing of the
project appraisal and the possible negative impact of boom periods
on project design and cost. The historical and long-term future
perspective must not be lost.
(b) The Bank should be involved as early as possible and should bring in
its most qualified technical experts from the very beginning. It is
very difficult to change the scope once a certain momentum has been
gained.
(c) Technology selection should be based strictly on a rational, techni-
cal and economic analysis. No advance preference should be given
because a technology has been invented or developed locally or is
allegedly "more appropriate for local conditions."



- 11 -
(d)  If a project provides a test facility or pilot plant, the objectives
of the research task as well as the nature of the tests to be
carried out should be defined as clearly as possible before the
design of the plant is being carried out. A clear distinction
should be made between features of the plant which serve the wanted
research task and features which serve at the same time to test a
certain process or technology. There is no point in incorporating
these second features if they make the plant considerably more
expensive, and a reliable advance process selection cannot be made.
(e)  Particular care should be given not to overemphasize the
institution-building aspect of a research project. The results of
the research may be negative and it may then be difficult to reverse
an earlier established trend.
6.2       There are also some lessons which can be derived from minor ineffi-
ciencies encountered during project execution, which do not affect in a
measurable way this project, but would negatively affect a commercial
project.  These are:
(a)  If a non-engineering consulting company has input into the technical
design of a plant, its role should be limited from the beginning
only to its particular strengths and experience.
(b)  The number of engineering firms involved in a technical design task
should be minimized. Rather than reinforcing the technical capabil-
ities of a non-engineering consulting firm through a subcontracted
engineering firm and have their common output reviewed by another
engineering firm, it is preferable to entrust the other engineering
firm from the beginning with all design work.
(c)  Simple, standardized reports should be prepared regularly and
promptly. The reports could be brief monthly telexes with key data
or, preferably for this type of projects, brief quarterly reports.



ANNEX
- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT (LOAN 2114-MOR)
Project Cost
(in US$ million)
Appraisal estimate              Actual
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Timahdit Test Station
Construction                     3.9    6.6    10.5      3.2      4.2      7.4
Operation                        1.1    2.9      4.0     1.0      0.5      1.5
Technical evaluation of
retorting processes             -     2.5      2.5      -        -        -
Feasibility Study
Additional drilling              0.7    0.6      1.3      -        -        -
Mine study                        0      3.2     3.2      -       1.5      1.5
Plant and infrastructure
study                           -     2.6      2.6      -        -        -
Comparison retorting vs.
direct combustion               -     0.3      0.3      -        -        -
General technical assistance      -      1.3     1.3      -       0.7      0.7
Charbonnages du Maroc
feasibility study               -      -        -       -       0.2      0.2
Total                        5.7   20.0    25.7      4.2 /a  7.1      11.3
/a   Including US$4.0 million estimated operating costs of ONAREP's oil shale
division (mainly wages).



- 13 -
ATTACHMENT
-COMMENTS F4M THE BORROWER
J"11002( .JHI/X52 ARN 1;.108P2V 0111- 13/1O0taw
ONAREP J297b5
RABADAf l.k 13/()01/0
TI.leX N 06/88
AT1i  R. AI.EXAHDRF IEIWXCrKJ *-HEF" O. u lVISXOl0-PAKRINE"Rn         OF.
L'(FI)AL.OIAr XION Rt- Rf0PICGr Xt)C bC8 IlPt.R r IX0N!.
NHI0S AVONS DIEN RECII LA VER';XIIJN PREX HIMNAIRE Oil RAPPORI
D'A;NCV*:C"EfTr BDl PROJ.E r'XN"0tNXC'RXCI x(C; 8X1 :X9t* E   BITIIoXNtlJX
bE GIXAHXIl (PRET 2114-14l1) I.I YOURfI INFORI'ON3t; l11E N40111  N'AvOJNh
PA13 940O RUArXAIN13 A PRE SEF:NTt.R.
-EXUI.1.IiUJRH8 SI. UTAIIJNII.
LE DXRE Tf1UR XXX DENERAL
MOHAIIIi  DOll!XF 1
ONAREP 329YS5
WORKING TRANSLATION
ATTN: MR. ALEXANDRE NOWICKI - DIVISION CHIEF - OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPT.
WE ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF THE DRAFT VERSION OF THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ON THE OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT (LOAN 2114-MOR) AND WE HEREBY ADVISE
YOU THAT ;WE HAVE NO COMMENTS TO PRESENT.
BEST REGARDS,
THE DIRECTOR GENERAL
MOHAMED DOUIEB
ONAREP 32975M



