Document of          FILE GOPy
The World Bank   Fl L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3223-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE OFFICE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES ET D'EXPLOITATIONS PETROLIERES
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
March 3, 1982
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 1981)
Currency Unit                   Dirham (DH)
DH 1.00                         Us$0.19
US$1.00                         DH 5.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel                                  159 litres
1 gallon per short ton                    4.2 litres per metric ton
(gal/ton)                                    (equals about 0.4% by
weight)
1 metric ton                               1,000 kilograms
I ton of oil equivalent (toe)              1.5 tons of coal equivalent
1150Nm3 natural gas
1 kilocalorie per kilogram (kcal/kg)    1.8 Btu/lb (heating value)
ABBREVIATIONS
BRPM             Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres
DMC              Davy McKee, Inc.
OCP              Office Cherifien de Phosphates
ONAREP           Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations
Petrolieres
ONE              Office National de l'Electricite
SAI              Science Applications, Inc.
bbl/day          barrels per day
toe              metric ton of oil equivalent
tpd              metric ton per day
tpy              metric ton per year
MOROCCAN FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE O0W3LY
KINDGOM OF MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres.
Guarantor:         The Kingdom of Morocco.
AnDunt:            US$20.0 million equivalent.
Terms:             Seventeen years including four years of grace, at an interest
rate of 11.6% per annum.
Pro;ect
Description:       The objective of the project is to generate information and
analysis on the characteristics of Moroccan shale resources
and on the technical and economic viability of the
alternative options for their development, taking into
account Morocco's environmental, financial and manpower
constraints, so that the Government can make an informed
decision regarding future investments in oil shale. The
project consists of: (a) construction and operation of a
test station at Timahdit; (b) technical evaluation of
alternative retorting processes; (c) preparation of a
comprehensive feasibility study of commercial oil shale
retorting operations at Timahdit, which will be divided into
separate components for the mine and for the retorting plant
and infrastructure; and (d) comparison of the economics of
shale retorting with direct combustion in power plants.
The potential long-term benefit from the project would be the
eventual replacement of a significant portion of Morocco's
oil imports by local production of shale oil, thus saving
foreign exchange and relieving balance of payments problems.
The mDre immediate benefits stem from the comprehensive
information which the project would generate and which will
enable the Government to make an educated decision as to
whether and how to develop Morocco's oil shale resources.
The project would also have important training and
institution-building effects. The main risks facing the
project are the uncertainty of the ultimate development of
oil shale retorting technologies and the eventual viability
of commercial exploitation of shale resources, particularly
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



( ii)
as regards the locally developed T3 process, and the
possibility of competing projects or contractual arrangements
which would prejudice the Government's final investment
decision. The first risk has been reduced by designing the
project as the first phase in a long-term program for shale
development with built-in decision points so that the results
of each phase are carefully evaluated before further
investments are made. The second risk is reduced by
assurances that all parallel studies would be appropriately
coordinated with the Bank-financed studies, and that the Bank
would have the right to suspend/premature the loan should the
Government undertake commitments which would frustrate the
purpose of the project.
Estimated Cost                                         Local    Foreign       Total
------(US$ million)-------
Timahdit test station
- construction                                    2.8        4.6         7.4
- start up and operation                          0.8        2.0         2.8
Technical evaluation of retorting processes
- additional tests in foreign pilot plants         -         0.4         0.4
- additional information by licensors              -         0.8         0.8
- evaluation                                       -         0.5         0.5
Feasibility Study
- additional drilling                             0.5        0.4         0.9
(including lab testing of shale samples)
- mine study                                       -         2.2         2.2
- plant and infrastructure study                   -         1.8         1.8
Comparison retorting versus
direct combustion                                     -         0.2         0.2
General technical assistance                          -         0.9         0.9
Base Cost                     4.1 1/   13.8        17.9
Physical contingency                     0.8        2.8         3.6
Price contingency                     0.8        3.4         4.2
Total Project Cost                     5.7 1/   20.0         25.7
1/ Includes $1.3 million in taxes.



( iii)
Financing Plan                                          Local    Foreign       Total
----(US$ Million)----
Bank loan                                             -        20.0        20.0
Government                                           5.7        -           5.7
Total                                     5.7       20.0        25.7
Estimated Disbursements           FY1982  FY1983  FY1984  FY1985  FY1986  FY1987
Annual                          0.4      7.0      8.2      2.5     1.8      0.1
Cumulative                      0.4      7.4    15.6    18.1    19.9    20.0
Rate of Return; Not applicable
Appraisal Report; No separate report.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE OFFICE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES ET D'EXPLOITATIONS PETROLIERES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres (ONAREP),
to be guaranteed by the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$20.0
million, to help finance an oil shale engineering project. The proposed loan
would have a repayment period of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, and
would carry an interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. A mission to review Morocco's Five
Year Plan (1981-85) and development prospects was in the field in December
IS181. Country and Economic Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Initroduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed
with natural resources. It has a considerable agricultural potential both
in irrigated and rainfed areas. The Atlantic and the Mediterranean
coastlines offer considerable fish resources. Morocco also has the world's
lalrgest and most easily recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the
pliosphate sector a key export sector. Other minerals such as iron ore,
manganese, lead and zinc are also exported, but in much smaller amounts.
Coal and hydropower plants satisfy only a small part of the country's energy
requirements, which are essentially met with imported oil. Morocco has
however uranium and oil shale resources which it plans to exploit. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco. GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. Growth accelerated somewhat under
the 1968-72 development plan as the economy derived substantial momentum
from exports. However, a relatively weak savings effort and a smail
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of President's Report No.
P-3176-MOR of December 10, 1981 on a proposed Middle Atlas - Central
Area - Agriculture Development Project.



-2-
externally financed resource gap resulted in only a slow rise in the share
of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s with
no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor
force was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural
sector, and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise
exports, with phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  The
1973-77 Development Plan aimed at an acceleration of economic growth, as
well as an improvement in income distribution.  To accomplish this, the
original plan strategy included two key elements: an intensified savings
effort and the development of exports. However, in 1974, with the sudden
jump in phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled.
As a result of this windfall, the value of merchandise exports doubled and
budgetary receipts rose by 70% between 1973 and 1974. Although the
petroleum import bill also quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the
balance of payments remained in surplus. The plan's concern for exports and
savings lost some of its urgency, and the Government launched a massive
public investment program which brought about a sharp acceleration in the
rate of growth of the economy and a considerable increase in demand for
imported goods and services, whose share in GDP doubled from 19% in 1972 to
39% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived; as early as mid-1975,
phosphate exports started falling in both volume and value, and prices
continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as for
tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession and restrictions imposed by the EEC. Agricultural production and
exports entered a period of prolonged stagnation, and Morocco turned from a
net exporter to a net importer of foodstuffs. As a result of all these
factors, the growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in
constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in 1968-72, was only 1% a year in
1973-77.
7.       Stimulated by the high investment level, a high GDP growth rate of
7.3% a year was achieved during the 1973-77 plan period. This growth was
led by the expansion of the construction and service sectors. The pattern
of investment, however, favored economic and social infrastructure more than
the productive sectors. In addition, public investments in industry,
agriculture and transport tended to be capital intensive and to emphasize
import substitution.
8.       Accelerated investment and growing public expenditures created
strong pressures on both the balance of payments and the Government budget.
While investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early 1970s to 32% in
1977, gross domestic savings rose briefly from 13% of GDP in 1972 to 21% of
GDP in 1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to 10-11% in



-3-
1976-77. The large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose to an
unsustainable 20% of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance the
gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the international capital market, which
led to rapid increases in external debt and the debt service burden. By the
end of 1977, external debt outstanding was close to 40% of GDP. The debt
service ratio rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and services in 1975 to
10.7% in 1977, and 18.5% in 1978.
9.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and
of the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 23% of
GDP in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues.
Total budgetary outlays rose from 20% of GDP in 1972 to nearly 42% in 1977,
in response to a number of pressures. These included not only the large
scale public investment launched under the plan, but also the rapid increase
in defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western Sahara,
and the acceleration of current expenditure for social programs
(particularly education). As a result, the Government's overall budget
deficit increased sharply, reaching peaks of 17 and 18% of GDP in 1976 and
1977. The expansionary monetary and fiscal policies pursued during the
period led to some acceleration of domestic inflation, but excess demand was
largely allowed to spill over into the external sector.
Rec,ent Developments
10.      In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import
levels. In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was
cut back by nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary
expenditure held down to about 13% (or less than 3% in real terms). These
measures of fiscal restraint were combined with tight credit policies and
stringent import controls. As a result, the overall budget deficit declined
to about 12% of GDP and the external payments situation improved in 1978.
Since then, however, the stabilization program encountered a number of
obstacles, including poor harvests, petroleum price increases and the rise
in interest on the commercial debt. In addition, internal pressures led to
some relaxation of the highly restrictive fiscal policy adopted in 1978.
Altlhough the economy continued to make slow progress toward equilibrium, by
1981) both fiscal and external imbalances were still substantial. The
resource gap (in current prices) remained at about 10% of GDP and the ratio
of the overall budget deficit to GDP at about 11%.
11.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period
was achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments,
which dropped from 22% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on
the public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter



-4-
e;  i-Li 9-9-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized
staple food and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in
import costs for these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of
current expenditure accelerated to 16% in 1979 and 22% in 1980.
12.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction
in capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a
significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus,
despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill (from less than $400
million in 1977 to $1 billion in 1980) and a rise in external debt interest
payments by about $350 million between 1977 and 1980, the current account
deficit was reduced from $1.8 billion, or 18% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4
billion, or 8% of GDP, in 1980. The growth of external borrowing slowed
considerably during the period. However, the absolute level of gross
external capital requirements rose because of growing amortization payments
on mediumr-term commercial credits contracted earlier and the rise in the
interest rate on these credits in 1980 (paragraph 21).
13.      The budgetary and balance-of-payments constraints had a serious
impact on the levels of investment and economic activity in 1978-80. Annual
GDP growth dropped to 4% in 1978-80. The adverse impact of the
stabilization program on employment has probably been substantial in
contrast with the rapid rate of employment creation during 1973-77. On the
whole, the demand management policies followed since 1978 have had a high
cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have been only partly
successful in their short-term stabilization objectives.   These results
brought out the urgent need to address adequately the long-term structural
weaknesses which are at the root of the continuing financial imbalances in
the Moroccan economy, and which must be corrected if an acceptable rate of
economic growth is to be achieved over the medium term without unsustainable
external deficits.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      Projectionsl/ of the likely outcome of the continuation of past
policies without concerted effort to implement major structural reforms
suggest that Morocco would be faced with a prolonged period of slow growth,
rising unemployment and continued large external imbalances which would keep
the country in considerable dependence on external borrowing and could
jeopardize its creditworthiness. To forestall such a deterioration, the
Government adopted a strategy in the development plan for 1981-85 which aims
at narrowing the external resource gap while accelerating growth and
spreading the benefits of growth more widely. The main objectives are to
1/ For details on these Bank projections, see Morocco - Basic Economic
Report, December 30, 1980 (No. 3289-MOR), Chapter III.



achieve a significant increase in domestic savings and exports, a reduction in
the elasticity of imports with respect to GDP, and a rise in productivity and
the employment rate. The Plan's projections show that, if achieved, such
changes would permit a gradual acceleration of annual GDP growth to 6.5% p.a.,
somewhat higher than Bank projections, in 1981-85, accompanied by a reduction
of the resource gap to about 7% in 1985.
15.      The containment of imports would result in part from the substitution
of imports of food products (cereals, sugar, vegetable oil, meat and dairy
products) to be brought about by an acceleration of the rate of growth of
agricultural production. This will require a wide range of institutional
reforms in addition to a review of prices of certain inputs and outputs, and a
greater allocation of resources to rainfed areas and to projects with high
rates of return. The Government also intends to follow a determined policy in
1981-85 in the area of energy conservation, including in particular
maintaining domestic energy prices at high levels, and making the necessary
investment allocations to increase energy production from local sources.
16.      An essential role in the achievement of the Plan's objectives will
have to be played by export promotion aimed at exploiting Morocco's
comparative advantage as regards phosphates and phosphate derivatives as well
as the current favorable export prospects for manufactured goods, agricultural
products and tourism. Exports of goods and nonfactor services are expected to
rise at 8.5% p.a. in real terms over 1981-85. While feasible, such a growth
rate would require implementation of the supporting investments and incentives
pol ciies.
17.      Narrowing the resource gap while maintaining at the same time high
investment levels would require an increase in domestic savings as well as
rationalization of the pattern and content of investment. A vigorous recovery
in domestic savings, which would rise from 11.5% of GDP in 1980 to 16% by
1985, would make it possible to narrow gradually the resource gap from about
10% in 1980 to 5% of GDP by 1985. Such a rise in the domestic savings rate
would exceed the performance in 1973-77 when savings averaged 14% of GDP. It
would demand intensive efforts to increase public savings (through an increase
in budgetary savings and an improvement in the performance of public
enterprises) and to stimulate private savings (through a revision of interest
rates and inprovements in financial intermediation).
18.      Given the feasible level of investment, the future rate of growth of
the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation and the
efficiency of investment as well as institutional reforms. Under the Plan,
the Government will start fewer large capital-intensive projects and pay
particular attention to the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.
Priority is given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive
and which use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition,
particular attention will be paid by the Government to manpower planning and
to the employment effect of investments in order to ensure that unemployment
doeis not rise.



-6-
Social Development
19.      Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities. The limited data
available indicate that in the 1970s, while disparities continued to grow,
household incomes increased in both urban and rural areas, and the lower
income groups shared in the real increase in incomes. In addition, infant
mortality has declined and life expectancy has increased, both significantly.
More recently, partly in response to the demands of locally elected
assemblies, the Government has shown more awareness of social problems and
greater interest in the issue of basic needs. Social expenditures have been
at a high level in recent years, accounting for more than half current
outlays.  However, social indicators still appear to be at low levels in
Morocco. The limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the
lower income groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as
a major issue, and the new strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes
rural development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in
Morocco currently live, and improved mechanisms to deliver services to meet
basic needs at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is
also being made to increase the involvement of local communities in providing
basic needs, particularly for sites and services for low cost housing, water
supply, sewerage and electrification. Although rapid results cannot be
expected in any of these areas, implementation of these policies would help
meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of
social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
20.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. Agreement was reached
with the IMF in 1980 for Morocco to draw on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF);
the agreement provided for the use of IMF resources in the amount of SDR 810
million over the 1980-83 period, an amount subsequently increased to SDR 956
million ($1.2 billion). However, as Morocco did not satisfy performance
criteria at the end of July 1981, its purchases under the EFF were suspended
pending an understanding 4ith the IMF. Discussions between the Government and
the IMF are now at an advanced stage for replacement of the EFF by a one-year
standby arrangement for 1982.
21.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $7.1 billion (disbursed only) by December 1980. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.57 billion in 1980. Debt service amounted to $800
million in 1979 and $1.2 billion in 1980 (22% and about 28%, respectively, of
total exports of goods and services). The debt service rose considerably in
1980 due mainly to the steep rise in interest on commercial credits. As a
result of recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to
average $1.8 billion annually in the early 1980s. Because of the growing
burden of debt service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and
selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government



- 7 -
will, have to continue this policy over the next few years. Limits on
commercial borrowing are to be incorporated in the framework of the standby
arrangement with the IMF, and efforts should be continued to seek loans on
softer terms.
22.      Loan commiitments from nultilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1376 million in 1978. Since then,
they have averaged $700--800 million a year (excluding grants). Major sources
of aid were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank
Group. At the end of 1980, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was 7 percent. The share of the Bank Group
in debt service was 21 percent in 1976 and declined to 15 percent in 1977, and
6 percent in 1980. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt: service are projected at about 10 percent and 11 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
23.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 50 projects,
financing a total of $1,833.1 million (net of cancellations), of which
$1,379 million has been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits,
totalling $50 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third
Window loan for $25 million for the third education project was approved in
March 1976. IFC investments have amounted to $31.2 million ($17.1 million
afte!r cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA
prolects.  In some cases delays in project implementation have been caused
by aanagement problems and budgetary constraints; however, overall
periormance in project execution has been improving and is satisfactory.
24.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 27 percent each of total
comnitments; the balance is represented by utilities (16 percent), tourism
(9 percent), education (9 percent), roads (6 percent), energy (3 percent)
and urban development (3 percent). While limited as regards the transfer of
resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 2.2 percent
of t:otal fixed investment during the 1973-77 Plan period), the main
objectives of Bank lending in previous years were to foster and strengthen
development institutions, provide technical assistance, especially for
project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order to improve
the balance of payments.
25.      While these objectives remain, in recent years Bank lending has
increasingly focussed on supporting a number of policy objectives: to
promote exports and other foreign-exchange earning activities; to reduce
imports, particularly of food and energy; to lower unit costs for the
delivery of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and
increase access by lower-income groups; to increase employment and improve
income distribution; and to bring about structural adjustment.



- 8 -
26.      Since- FY1975, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in
the productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly
addresses these objectives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The
Loukkos project, approved in May 1980, and the recently approved Middle
Atlas project extend support of these objectives to less favorably endowed
regions and finance investments for agricultural development, erosion
control, forestry and livestock. They should have a significant poverty
impact and address major issues in developing Morocco's relatively densely
populated but poorly endowed muntainous regions. Continued Bank support of
rainfed agriculture is expected to be provided through an integrated rural
development project in the Khemisset province, which is under preparation.
A fourth line of credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) has
helped provide credit to small and medium farmers, and a fifth project is
under preparation.   Increased export earnings are expected to result from a
Bank-supported project for vegetable marketing and production, as well as
from a project currently under preparation to improve the efficiency of the
coastal fishing industry. Projects are also under preparation for research
and extension, for irrigation rehabilitation, and for development of small-
and mediumrscale irrigation.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings and, more recently,
job creation, have been the key objectives of Bank projects in industry and
tourism. A ninth line of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le
Developpement Economique (BNDE), incorporating a pilot component for
export-oriented industries, as well as a second line of credit for small
scale industries with an emphasis on job creation have recently been
approved by the Board. A project focussing on the development of
electro-mechanical industries is being prepared. A fourth line of credit to
Credit Immobilier et H8telier (CIH) for tourism projects was also recently
approved by the Executive Directors, in a sector which has contributed a
substantial share of Morocco's foreign exchange earnings and provided
significant employment. A project to increase mineral export earnings and
raise the incomes of small-scale miners in Southeastern Morocco, a region
largely bypassed by previous development efforts, is being presented to the
Executive Directors shortly.
28.      Projects to improve basic infrastructure and services have
concentrated on improving the efficiency of existing investments and
extending services to rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban
development project was approved by the Board in FY1981, which would
continue to support the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic
services and employment to low-income urban families. A third highway
project approved in FY1980 supported the Government's road maintenance
efforts and a fourth project now being prepared would continue support for



- 9 -
maintenance and improve rural access roads. A loan for village
electrification approved in FY1979 is helping bring power to over a hundred
small towns and villages. A third water supply project, recently approved,
will provide access to safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas, as
well as expand a pilot component initiated under the second project to
provide credit for house connections to low income urban families. In
addition, a project to strengthen the capacity of local comnunities to
prepare and implement their own development programs and provide financing
for such programs through the Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is being
prepared. It will not only help to widen the distribution of infrastructure
and services but will also support the Government's policy of encouraging
administrative decentralization and local participation.
29.      Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. While recent projects have focussed on secondary level
technical education and teacher training, attention has also been given to
expanding basic education in the rural areas and ensuring a greater
orientation in primary schooling towards practical training. This would be
complemented by future projects in non-formal education and vocational
training. The Government's recent policy supporting primary health care
would be tested through a project currently being prepared as a first phase
in at nationwide program to reorganize medical and paramedical training,
health education, nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning
services, especially in rural areas.
30       In order to aim at reducing the impact of the oil import burden on
the Moroccan economy, a project was approved in April 1980 to contribute to
the Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of
its petroleum resources. Additional projects for development of possible
gas resources as well as coal and hydropower, are under consideration.
31.      The sectoral objectives implied in these projects as well as other
objectives relating to price policy, efficiency and composition of the
pub-Lic sector investment program, and measures to mobilize domestic savings,
wouLd be reinforced by the policy changes envisaged under a possible
Strlctural Adjustment Loan which has been appraised. Negotiations for the
loan began in mid-1980, but were not completed by the time the release of
the second tranche of the IMF's EFF was postponed (see paragraph 20). The
Government has requested resumption of negotiations; further progress would
depend on the IMF and the Bank reaching agreement with the Government and
may require reappraisal of the structural adjustment program..
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Morocco's Energy Balance
32.      Energy-consumption.  Morocco is highly dependent on imports for its
energy supply. In 1980, its primary energy consumption amDunted to



- 10 -
4.6 million tons of oil equivalent (toe) while its domestic supply was only
0.9 million toe or about 20% of total consumption. To cover the deficit,
Morocco imported 3.7 million toe of petroleum and 0.02 million toe of coal
for a total cost of DH 4.2 billion ($917 million). Morocco's energy bill
has put a heavy strain on the country's balance of payments; in 1980 it
accounted for 25% of imports, absorbing about 44% of export revenues. The
Moroccan Government considers the reduction of the country's dependence on
energy imports of the highest priority. Intensification of petroleum and
gas exploration, expansion of hydroelectric power generation capacity, and
development of the country's large oil shale deposits are the main routes
promoted by the Government to develop the country's domestic energy supply.
In parallel with these efforts, the Government is attempting to curb the
growth of energy demand through pricing policy and a campaign to induce
energy savings. The Bank is supporting the Government's objectives in the
energy sector through several loans which aim at developing local energy
supplyl', and additional loans in this sector are under preparation.
The proposed project is an extension of the Bank's strategy in the energy
sector.
33.      Per capita consumption of primary energy in Morocco amounts to
about 0.23 toe, a relatively low figure compared with countries with similar
per capita incomes. Energy consumption has grown at an average of 8% per
annum over the last 20 years. Light motor fuels account for about 45% of
total energy consumption, electricity for 25%, and the balance of 30% is
distributed among lubricants and other industrial users, of which the
phosphate mines (6%) and the cement industry (5%) are the most important
single consumers. Petroleum, which represents about 80% of total energy
consumption, is imported mainly as crude and is refined in Morocco in two
refineries with a total capacity of 4.9 million toe per year.
34.      Local energy supply.  Locally produced and consumed primary energy
in 1980 amounted to 0.90 million toe, or about 20% of total consumption --
of which petroleum accounted for 0.01 million toe (1.4%), natural gas for
0.12 million toe (12.9%), coal for 0.38 million toe (41.7%), and
hydroelectric power for 0.39 million toe (44%).
35.      Domestic production of petroleum peaked in 1963 when a production
rate of 150,000 tpy (3,000 barrels per day) was achieved. Due to depletion
of the producing fields, output has been declining steadily since 1963 and
now is only about 15,000 tpy. Total identified oil reserves amount to no
more than 4 million tons. New exploration efforts so far have led mainly to
the discovery of additional natural gas, production of which doubled between
1979 and 1980 to 156 million mJ and for which new drilling results are
very encouraging.
1/ Loan 936-MOR, First Power Project, Report No. 26a-MOR.
Loan 1299-MOR, Sidi Cheho-Al Massira Hydro Project, Report No. 1156-MOR.
Loan S-18, Petroleum Exploration Project, Report No. 2735a-MOR.



- 11 -
36.      Coal in Morocco is only mined underground in the Jerada area in
northeastern Morocco.  Present annual production is 0.8 million tons (0.52
million toe) of which about 0.2 million tons is exported. The remainder is
usecl primarily for power generation. Production is expected to increase to
1.2 million tons by the late 1980's, with the implementation of a limited
mechanization program. Although there are about 80 million tons of probable
reserves in the Jerada area, difficult geological conditions and high mining
costs make further expansions unlikely and the possibilities for full
mechanization to achieve higher production rates are limited. Outside of
the Jerada area, there are some occurrences of coal and lignite in Morocco,
for which an exploration plan has been prepared. However, the likelihood of
discovering major new deposits appears very limited.
37.      Existing hydropower facilities presently yield an average of about
1,500 GWh per year, generated from about 620 MW installed capacity. The new
Bank-financed Sidi Cheho-Al Massira power plant (Loan 1299-MOR) has added
120 MW installed capacity. The development program through 1990 aims at
add:Lng another 1,190 MW installed capacity, with the construction of 14
dam;. Development of additional hydro sites is, however, constrained by
Morocco's hydrological conditions and increasing competitive demand for
downstream water resources for irrigation and domestic water supply.
38.      Unconventional forms of energy are not promising in the short to
medium term. Although the uranium contained in Morocco's large phosphate
reserves (about 50 billion tons) could represent a very large energy
potential as a domestic fuel base for nuclear power plants, the lead time
requjired for developing a nuclear industry in Morocco makes it only a remDte
alternative domestic energy source. Renewable energy sources -- solar,
biomass, wind and geothermal -- are being studied, but their development
appears likely only on a small scale.
39.      As identified energy resources in Morocco are very limited, Morocco
has no other choice but to intensify its petroleum and gas exploration
efforts and attempt to develop new energy resources, such as oil shale, if
it is to reduce its dependence on imported energy. The Bank is supporting
this effort under the Petroleum Exploration Project (Loan S-18) which
finances the foreign exchange component of the Governmant's oil exploration
program from early-1980 to mid-1983, as well as preliminary studies relating
to oil shale. The proposed project would follow up on these preliminary
studies and assist the Government in evaluating the options for developing
its large identified oil shale resources, estimated to contain a crude oil
equivalent of about 6 billion tons.
40.      Energy pricing and conservation.  The Government's objective with
respect to energy pricing is to keep prices of energy sources equal to or
above their economic value. Although in the past there have been some
departures from this rule in the case of fuel oil, the present pricing
structure for oil products results in prices which are above their imported
cost by about 15% for fuel oil and by as much as 250% for gasoline.
Electricity tariffs and coal prices have also been raised regularly to



- 12 -
better reflect the cost of production. The Government's pricing policy is
part of an extensive program to promote energy conservation. This program
has already resulted in a substantial reduction in the rate of growth of
energy consumption. In the future, strict adherence to the present pricing
policy, together with further measures to promote energy conservation --
mainly in industry -- are expected to keep the total annual growth rate of
energy consumption at a level of 5% during the next few years, as compared
to an historical annual growth rate of 8%.
Energy and Mining Sector Organization
41.      The energy and the mining sectors -- both of which are involved in
oil shale development -- are under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Energy and Mines (MEM) which provides overall planning and policy making in
these sectors. The MEM was created in 1977 to consolidate Government
activities in several subsectors and is separated into two main operating
departments; Energy and Mines. The Ministry oversees several public
enterprises of which the main ones are; (i) the Office National de
Recherches et d'Exploitation Petroliere (ONAREP) for petroleum and oil shale
development; (ii) the Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres
(BRPM) for non-fuel mineral exploration and production; (iii) the Societe
Anonyme Marocaine de l'Industrie du Raffinage (SAMIR); (iv) the 50%
ONAREP-owned Societe Nationale des Produits Petroliers (SNPP) for the
distribution of petroleum products; and (v) the Charbonnages du Maroc,
operator of the Jerada coal mine. The Ministry also has administrative
control over the Office National de l'Electricite (ONE).
42.      With overall responsibility for energy and mining, the Ministry
will play an important role in coordinating the efforts required for the
development of oil shale, if the latter's economic viability is
demonstrated. ONAREP would carry the main responsibility for oil shale
mining and retorting. The Moroccan refineries, SAMIR and the Societg
Cherifienne des Petroles (SCP), and the national petroleum distributing
company (SNPP), would also have a significant role to play. The Moroccan
mining community would contribute extensively to oil shale development by
providing assistance and expertise for the critical mining aspects. Morocco
has a long mining tradition, possessing the world's largest reserves of
phosphate rock as well as other fuel (coal) and non-fuel minerals (iron,
lead, zinc, manganese, cobalt and copper). The largest mining company is
the Office Cherifien des Phosphates (OCP) an autonomous public enterprise
which mines 18 million tpy of phosphate rock. OCP's long experience in open
pit mining would greatly benefit Morocco in its oil shale development
effort, as would BRPM's previous experience in prospecting and testing the
Timahdit shale reserves.
43.      Prior to mid-1981, BRPM was responsible for research, exploration,
development and production of both fuel and non-fuel mineral resources (with
the exception of phosphates). However, the rapid growth of activity in the
hydrocarbon sector prompted the Government to create a new public
enterprise, the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petroliares



- 13 -
(ONAREP), to take over BRPM's responsibilities for oil, gas, and oil shale,
including the implementation of the ongoing Bank-financed Petroleum
Exploration Project (Loan No. S-18). The law (dahir) creating ONAREP has
been passed by the Moroccan Parliament and was published in the official
bulletin in November, 1981. Approval of the implementing decree, which sets
out the administrative structure of ONAREP, is a condition of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (e)). The division of staff,
assets and liabilities between BRPM and ONAREP has been agreed in principle
and separate accounts were established for ONAREP as of January 1, 1982. A
provisional opening balance sheet is being prepared, and will be reviewed by
external auditors selected with the Bank's approval. Approval of the
regulations transferring the relevant staff, assets and liabilities from
BRPM to ONAREP, which would give ONAREP a satisfactory operational and
financial base, and submission to the Bank of the provisional opening
balance sheet and the auditors' opinion, are conditions of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.01 (c); 7.01 (d) and (e)). A full
audit of the final opening balance sheet would be carried out by September
1, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (d)).
44.      The Director and Secretary General of ONAREP have been officially
appointed and all of BRPM's technical and support staff working in petroleum
and oil shale have been transferred to ONAREP, including about 105 engineers
and geologists. ONAREP will be initially organized into divisions along the
same functional lines as BRPM in order to preserves organizational cohesion
and continuity of operations: (i) the Petroleum Exploration Division,
re! onsible for oil and gas research and exploration activities, including
the $90 million exploration program carried out under the Bank-financed
Petroleum Exploration Project; (ii) the Technical Division, responsible for
the physical execution of ONAREP's exploration and production work as well
as for procurement and maintenance of ONAREP's facilities and equipment;
(iii) the Oil Shale Division, responsible for the exploration and mining of
Morocco's oil shale deposits and the development of an oil shale retorting
capacity; (iv) the Administrative Division, in charge of personnel and
contract management; and (v) the Financial Division, which handles
accounting and financial matters. Confirmation of the appointment of the
Division Chiefs and adequate professional and support staff for the
Administrative and Financial divisions is a condition of loan effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Sections 4.01 (b)(i) and 7.01 (b)). ONAREP also expects to
establish in the future units for budgeting and audits as well as for
planning and evaluation. Management consultants, to be financed under the
Petroleum Exploration Project, would be hired by September 1, 1982, to
assist ONAREP in reviewing its organizational structure, operational
methods, administrative and financial procedures and staffing requirements,
taking into account not only ongoing and planned petroleum exploration and
oil shale development operations but also the possibility of future
production activities. The results of this review would be submitted to the
Bank by June 1, 1983, and ONAREP and the Bank would subsequently agree on a
program to implement the recommended changes (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01
(c)).



- 14 -
45.      The institutional measures concerning the legal, physical and
financial establishment of ONAREP mentioned in the above paragraphs are also
reflected in a proposed Loan Assumption Agreement which would transfer the
ongoing Petroleum Exploration Project (Loan S-18) from BRPM, the original
Borrower, to ONAREP as successor agency to BRPM for petroleum activities.
This agreement would also change disbursement percentages for seismic
surveys from 80% of total expenditures to 100% of foreign expenditures, to
facilitate direct payment to contractors, and would increase the limit for
contracts procured under local competitive bidding procedures from $300,000
to $400,000 per individual contract, for contracts totalling less than $9
million, to facilitate standardization with equipment already purchased.
The proposed Loan Assumption Agreement is being submitted concurrently with
the Oil Shale Engineering Project to the Executive Directors.
Oil Shale Development
46.      State of the art.  Oil shale, a sedimentary rock containing organic
matter, is found in abundance in many parts of the world. Identified oil
shale reserves contain over 290 billion toe (2,000 billion barrels), of
which 5-10% are considered exploitable at present technology and prices.
Developing countries account for 28% of the total reserves identified with
the largest deposits located in Brazil, Zaire and China. Oil shale can be
used for the production of shale oil and gas through a retorting processl/
or can be burned directly as a low-grade fuel. Its commercial exploitation
started during the last century, mainly in Europe. Most of the oil shale
industries, however, except those in the USSR and China, shut down after
World War II because of their uncompetitiveness with petroleum fuel.
47.      With the increase in oil prices, interest in oil shale has been
revived and extensive work is presently taking place, mainly in the United
States, Germany, Brazil and the USSR, to develop new processes both for
direct combustion and for the retorting of oil shale. Retorting of oil
shale can be done either in surface plants supplied with mined shale or in
situ, leaving the shale in the ground. Both surface and in situ retorting
are technologically complex operations for which several processes are
presently under development. Most of the surface processes are continuous,
i.e., a continuous flow of shale is run through a special vessel (retort)
where it is heated, creating the chemical reaction leading to the production
of oil. Some of the older surface processes, as well as the in situ
process, are batch processes where a certain volume of oil shale is isolated
(either in a vessel or underground), retorted, and then removed (or left in
place in case of in situ retorting). The most well-known processes are
being developed in the United States by Tosco, Union Oil, Occidental,
Paraho, and Superior; in Germany by Lurgi-Ruhrgas; and in Brazil by
Petrobras. Most of these retorting processes have been tested at a pilot
plant scale; however, none has reached the state of commercial application.
Because of the complex technology involved in retorting processes and the
lack of commercial experience, none of these processes can be considered
today as industrially proven. In the USA, two commercial scale projects
1/ Thermal decomposition of the shale's organic matter into oil, gas, water
and residual carbon.



- 15 -
(Exxon/Tosco and Union Oil) are under construction and are expected to be
completed by the late 1980's.
48.      Oil shale development faces some problems in the downstream
treatment of its products. Because of the characteristics of the shale oil
produced -- typically, a higher carbon to hydrogen ratio and more sulfur and
nitrogen than in most crude oil -- the refining of such a product requires a
specifically designed treatment cycle which normally is not acco modated in
existing refineries.  Another obstacle facing development of the oil shale
industry is its environmental impact. A large industrial oil shale
operation (50,000 bbl/day) will require the mining of more than 25 million
cubic meters of shale per year (50 million tons) and disposal of even larger
volumes of spent shale and overburden. The latter aspect alone, if not
adequately planned and controlled, can cause serious damage to the region's
ecology. Also, the various chemical reactions taking place during the
retorting process lead to the production of pollutants and toxic elements
which must be extracted from the gases and shale oil. Finally, the large
volumes of water needed as well as the pollution of the non-recycled water
by residual organic materials are likely, if not controlled, to affect the
hydrological conditions in the area where the oil shale operation is
located. With the extensive work which has been undertaken, mainly in the
USA, satisfactory technical solutions have been found to mDst of these
problems. The complexity and extent of the environmental problens inherent
to oil shale exploitation will require extensive long-term planning as well
as large investments in land reclamation and pollution control devices to
limit the social and ecological disturbance which will be caused by such an
industry.
49.      Oil shale retorting is highly capital intensive.  Its economics are
still uncertain as there has been no recent commercial experience in oil
shale retorting except in the USSR and China. Estimates for the capital
cost vary within a wide range from $30,000 to above $50,000 per barrel of
daily capacity and estimates for operating costs range from $25 up to $50
per barrel (in 1980 terms). Although these costs appear high, the rising
cost of energy and in particular, of imported fuel, makes the exploitation
of selected oil shale deposits a potentially competitive alternative for the
energy supply of countries dependent on imported energy. As mentioned in
the recent Energy Policy Paper.!, despite the uncertainties surrounding
the process technologies, efforts to define oil shale prospects should be
viewed by developing countries with known oil shale reserves as a sound
investment. Morocco is a prime candidate for such efforts.
50.      Moroccan oil shale prospects.  Moroccan oil shale reserves
identified to date are estimated at over 100 billion tons, containing more
than 6 billion tons of oil in several deposits of which the three major ones
are located at Timahdit in the central plateau about 250 km east of Rabat,
Tarfaya located in the far southeastern region and Tangiers, on the northern
coast. The most favorable deposit for early development of an oil shale
industry appears to be Timahdit, where proven reserves of about 3.3 billion
1/ Energy in the Developing Countries. August, 1980; p.22.



- 16 -
tons of oil shale have been identified with an average oil content of 17
gal/ton of shale.
51.      The Timahdit deposit, which was discovered in 1966 by BRPM, has
been extensively studied since 1974. About $1 million have already been
spent on geological exploration work as well as on testing of the shale.
The exploration work carried out by BRPM -- which included drilling of 72
holes with a total length of 22,000 m and digging of 200 m of shafts and
galleries -- showed that the deposit presented very favorable
characteristics. A 6 km2 plateau was identified containing some
2.9 billion tons of shale with a favorable overburden ratio of 1:1 and
hardly any waste layers within the oil shale bed. This plateau is suitable
for open-pit mining and the mining costs for this deposit are likely to be
below those for underground oil shale mines.
52.      Testing of the Timahdit shale has been done both in Morocco and
abroad. About 19,500 samples were analyzed in BRPM laboratories and about
800 tons were tested in three different batch retorts built in Rabat and
Timahdit by BRPM with individual capacities of 200 kg, 3 tons and 50 tons
each. In addition, about 1,000 tons of shale were shipped abroad for
testing in laboratories and pilot plants in the USA (Tosco, Occidental,
Paraho and Union Oil) as well as in Germany (Kloeckner/Lurgi-Ruhrgas) and in
the USSR. The various tests and the associated prefeasibility studies
showed that extraction of oil from Timahdit shale was technically feasible
with high recovery rates for all the retorting processes tested. While
Timahdit shale is "leaner" than high grade Colorado shale (17 gal/ton
compared to about 30 gal/ton), it has a high proportion of residual carbon,
which may substantially reduce the need for external energy in the
extraction process. Further testing of a wide range of samples covering the
entire deposit may still be needed. However, it can already be concluded
that the combination of the relatively good quality of the shale and the
favorable geological characteristics of the deposit make Timahdit a
potentially suitable site for industrial oil shale exploitation.
Nonetheless, while the preliminary studies conducted by the process holders
indicated that Timahdit shale could be retorted at costs comparable to US
oil shales, they focused only on retorting per se and did not take into
account mining costs, downstream treatment of oil and gas or infrastructure
requirements, which would account for at least two-thirds of the total cost
of a commercial oil shale operation. The studies thus do not provide
sufficient data to allow any conclusions as to the overall economics of
shale oil extraction in Morocco nor as to the retorting process most
appropriate for the Moroccan context.
53.      The T3 process.  In parallel to the work done by the foreign
process holders, the Moroccan Government and BRPM, in view of the
complexity, costs and uncertain timing of availability of the retorting
processes being developed abroad, decided to explore the possibility of the
implementation of a simple surface process. With the technical assistance
of a US scientific consulting firm, SAI (Science Applications, Inc.), the T3
process -- so named for the three main Moroccan oil shale deposits -- was



- 17 -
developed. A preliminary study of the feasibility of the T3 process carried
out by SAI indicated that a commercial plant based on the T3 process might
be economically viable in Morocco with today's oil prices. On the basis of
these provisional results, BRPM contracted further studies on the T3 process
to SAI in July, 1980 which were financed under a special allocation within
the Bank's Petroleum Exploration Loan ($ 2.5 million). This included (i) a
preliminary comparative study of known retorting processes; (ii) design of a
testing program for the T3 process; and (iii) preliminary design of a T3
pilot plant. The preliminary comparative study identified four processes --
Paraho, Lurgi, Union Oil SGR and T3 -- which are considered the most
suitable for the Moroccan context. An outline of the T3 testing program has
been drawn up and the preliminary design of a pilot plant has been completed.
54.      The T3 process is an improved version of the older NTU process
(Nevada, Texas, Utah) developed by the US Bureau of Mines before World
War II. It consists of a pair of coupled batch retorts, with one retort
burning and producing oil through direct generation of heat while the other
one is cooling down. The combustion air which is needed in the burning
retort is first passed with some water through the cooling retort, thus
generating steam which is used to preheat the shale as well as to help
control the temperature in the burning retort. The production and use of
steam is expected to increase the oil yield and retorting rate as well as
the overall energy efficiency of the process. Favorable energy efficiency
and water utilization ratios may make T3 more appropriate for the particular
characteristics of Moroccan shale. However, oil recovery rates, while
acc ptable, are somewhat lower than for continuous processes and, when
combined with the slow throughput of a batch process, indicate that capital
and operating costs per barrel of oil produced might be higher than for
continuous processes. The multiplicity of retorts needed for a T3
commercial plant means that operation would not necessarily be simpler than
a continuous process but would, on the other hand, prevent complete shutdown
in case of malfunctions. Because T3 is at a very preliminary stage, its
development to an industrial stage would probably take longer than for
continuous processes. However, the availability or appropriateness of
processes being developed abroad cannot be guaranteed and thus T3 as a
locally developed process is perceived by the Moroccans as a hedge against
total dependency on foreign process-holders.
Government strategy
55.      Shale Retorting.  Because of the early stage of development of
shale retorting technologies, the limited understanding of their
adaptability to the particular characteristics of Timahdit shale, the
physical, financial and human resource constraints in Morocco, as well as
the uncertainty of the economic viability of shale oil extraction, the
Government has concluded that any decision to undertake commercial
exploitation of its oil shale resources should only be taken after a phased
program of experimental testing and the technical and economic evaluation of
the various options available. A subsequent phase in the Government's
long-term shale development program would involve the construction and



- 18 -
operation of one or more full-scale demonstration plants which might cost
anywhere from $50 million to $300 million. This would permit further
reduction of the technical unknowns concerning the operation of the process
in question, particularly as regards scale-up issues, before proceeding to a
third phase, the development of a complete commercial retorting operation.
The commercial operation would include development of the mine, retorting
plant, oil upgrading and gas treatment facilities, infrastructure and oil
distribution network. It has been estimated that such an operation could
cost between $750 million and $3 billion, depending on the process and plant
size chosen. The first commercial plant could have a capacity of
10,000-20,000 bbl/day; however, the long-term Moroccan objective is to
produce at least 50,000 bbl/day, which would cover a significant portion
(2.5 million tpy or about two-thirds) of current oil imports.
56.      In view of the increasing interest worldwide in oil shale, a number
of private foreign companies have approached the Moroccan government to
explore the possibility of an eventual collaboration for the development of
its shale resources. In addition to the studies and pilot plant testing to
be carried out under the Bank-financed engineering project, the Government
has recently signed two contracts to undertake preliminary studies on shale
retorting prospects. The first study, to be financed jointly by the
American oil shale company Tosco, the Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas
(Paribas) and the Government, would analyze the technical and economic
feasibility of adapting the Tosco retorting process for a commercial plant
at Timahdit. The second study, of which the first phase would be financed
entirely by Royal Dutch Shell, would carry out preliminary geological
exploration and feasibility studies on the Tarfaya shale deposit, to
determine the desirability of establishing a demDnstration plant for testing
a new retorting process being developed by Shell, with a view to eventual
commercial retorting operations at Tarfaya.
57.      It is clearly in the Government's interest to attract potential
investors and to explore with them as many as possible alternative options
for the development of its shale resources, in order to maximize the range
of choices available for a final investment decision. However, it is
essential that the various studies be carefully coordinated in order to
avoid duplication of efforts, and that the results of all such studies be
compared so that any decision to invest in oil shale retorting on a
commercial scale be made on the basis of a thorough evaluation and
comparison of all potentially viable alternatives. The Bank welcomes the
existence of parallel studies on Morocco's oil shale resources which can be
used as input to the comparative studies to be financed by the Bank,
provided, however, (i) that such projects do not involve commitments which
would limit the Moroccan Government's options for future investment
decisions, and (ii) that they are adequately coordinated with and, to the
extent appropriate, integrated into the Bank financed projects (see para.
82). Assurances were therefore obtained during negotiations that the Bank
would be fully informed about all planned and on-going studies or signed
contracts concerning oil shale retorting, that any parallel projects or
studies would be appropriately coordinated with the studies financed under



- 19 -
the proposed project, and that the results of all the different studies
(whether financed by the Bank or not), and possible follow-up thereto, would
be reviewed and discussed with the Bank (Guarantee Agreement, Section 4.03
(a)). Furthermore, should the Government enter into any contract or other
arrangement with third parties which would (i) interfere with the carrying
out of the proposed Bank-financed project or (ii) restrict in any way the
Government's freedom to apply the conclusions of the project-financed
studies regarding the choice of retorting process, the Bank would have the
right to suspend and premature the proposed loan (Loan Agreenent, Section
6.01 (b)).
58.      Direct combustion of shale.  As a parallel route to oil shale
retorting, the Office National d'Electricitg (ONE), in cooperation with the
Russian foreign trade agency, Neftechimpromekport, and Kloeckner,
Steinmueller and Deutsche Babcock AG, of Germany, has conducted tests and
studies on the direct combustion of oil shale in power plants. A 1,000 ton
sample of Timahdit shale -- with a heating value of about 1,100 kcal/kg and
an ash content of 60% -- has been tested in a lignite-fired power plant in
Germany by Deutsche Babcock, which showed that the Timahdit shale would burn
satisfactorily in a power plant. However, although there is wide industrial
experience with burning low calorific solid fuel, there is only limited
experience with burning fuels with a very high ash content such as shale.
Presently, the only two large-scale shale-fired power plants are in Estonia,
USSR, where the ash content does not exceed 50% and the shale has an
unusually high calorific value of 2,400 kcal/kg. A new shale-fired power
plant is under construction in Romania, where shale characteristics are
closer to those in Timahdit than are those in Estonia.  Based on the Russian
experience, Moroccan authorities feel that the direct combustion of shale
may be a viable means to achieve early reduction of the oil imports in the
important consumption sector of thermal power plants. ONE plans to start
construction of a demonstration shale-fired power plant of 200 MW in 1983 in
the Timahdit area. A feasibility study has been prepared by
Neftechimpromekport and will be submitted to the Bank for review (see para.
67). Development of direct combustion and of shale retorting in Timahdit
are not necessarily mutually exclusive as the Timahdit deposit contains
sufficient reserves to supply both the power plants and the retorting plants
envisaged. However, because of the high cost and complexity of both
developments and in view of limited Moroccan financial and human resources,
priorities may eventually have to be established between the retorting and
direct combustion routes.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Concept and Background
59.      The proposed engineering project would increase the Moroccan
Government's understanding of the technical, managerial and economic
constraints, risks and benefits involved in the development of an oil shale
retorting industry, so that it can make an informed decision on whether and



- 20 -
how to proceed with further investments in oil shale. The eventual
commercial exploitation of Morocco's oil shale resources could help
significantly in reducing Morocco's energy imports, thus alleviating an
important drain on the balance of payments. The project would also
strengthen the local institutional capacity to design, implement and
evaluate oil shale retorting operations.
60.      In July 1980 the Bank agreed to finance various studies on oil
shale development in Morocco under a special allocation in the Petroleum
Exploration Loan (see para. 53). In October of the same year, an
identification mission visited Morocco to discuss with the Government and
BRPM the next steps in their oil shale development program and the scope of
a possible engineering project. Following the mission, BRPM/ONAREP pursued
the preparation of this project, which was appraised by the Bank in February
1981. Negotiations were held in Washington in August and October 1981; the
leader of the Moroccan negotiating team was Mr. Mohamed Douieb, Director
General of ONAREP. The main features of this project are outlined in the
Loan and Project Summary. A Supplementary Project Data sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project Objectives
61.      The oil shale engineering project will:  (a) increase knowledge of
the characteristics of Moroccan shale, shale oil and retorting by-products;
(b) facilitate the selection of the optimum retorting process for Morocco,
taking into account the particular characteristics of the shale, the
operating parameters of the various retorting processes under development
and Morocco's environmental, financial and manpower constraints; (c)
determine the economic viability of commercial scale oil shale retorting in
Timahdit, with attention to mining, retorting plant, infrastructure,
refining of shale oil and treatment of by-products, environmental impact and
the relative viability of direct combustion of shale for power generation;
and (d) give practical training to Moroccan technicians in the construction
and operation of a small-scale retorting plant and test station.
Project Description
62.      The project consists of:
(a) construction and operation of a test station at Timahdit;
(b) technical evaluation of alternative retorting processes and, if
deemed necessary, additional testing of Timahdit shale in existing
pilot plants;
(c) preparation of a comprehensive feasibility study of commercial oil
shale retorting operations at Timahdit. This study will be divided
into separate components for the mine and for the retorting plant and
infrastructure;



- 21 -
(d) comparison of the economics of retorting of shale with its direct
combustion in power plants.
63.      A test station will be built in Timahdit in order to test the
operation of the T3 process, to enable extensive analysis of Timahdit shale,
to generate sufficient samples of shale oil, off-gas and retorted shale for an
initial examination of oil upgrading requirements and treatment of by-products
and spent shale, as well as to provide on-site practical training to Moroccan
engineers and technicians in the construction and operation of a retorting
plant. The test station will include a module of two batch retorts of 80t
capacity each, based on the T3 process, with related equipment, instruments,
laboratory and a small open pit mine for supplying the shale. The design of
this test station is based on the design work performed by SAI (see para. 53)
which will be reviewed to ensure that all relevant parameters could be
investigated and to facilitate to the extent possible, future testing of
different processes. The design will also be submitted to an independent
safety audit before construction is undertaken (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01
(b)(ii)). The T3 process was chosen for the initial phase of operation for
this test station in view of the importance of obtaining experimental data on
this process, which has never yet been operationally tested, as opposed to
other known processes for which pilot plants, and in some cases semi-work
plants, do already exist. A batch process such as T3 may also be more
suitable for training purposes due to its relative simplicity (See para. 54).
64.      Under the proposed project the test station will be run for 12 months
in( uding a three-month start-up period. During these months approximately 50
test runs will be made; an outline of the proposed test program has already
been approved by the Bank and the detailed test program would be submitted to
the Bank for approval before commencing operation of the test station (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)(i)). The tests will be aimed at analyzing both
the main operating parameters of the T3 process (retorting rate, off-gas
composition, mechanical behavior) and the key characteristics of Moroccan
shale (granulometry, combustion temperature, fusing of spent shale, mechanical
strength of shale in retort, breakdown of organic matters into different
products). General technical assistance will be provided for the design,
implenentation and evaluation of the test program (see para. 70). The test
station could continue to operate after the twelve-month period included in
the project for additional testing of a wide sampling of the Timahdit shale
deposit and may eventually be mDdified later on to test other processes or
equipment.
65.      The technical evaluation of alternative retorting processes will be
based on analysis of the results of the tests already undertaken in pilot
plants abroad as well as on the information about the Timahdit shale gained
from the test program in the Timahdit test station and would continue the
analysis begun in the preliminary comparative study financed under the
Petroleum Exploration Loan (see para. 53). Input from several process
licensors will be obtained, and for clarification of special issues,
additional test work by one or two licensors is expected. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the consultants would have adequate access



- 22 -
to the information necessary for carrying out the studies (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02 (c)). The results of any studies being carried out in parallel
with the Bank-financed project (see para. 56) will be integrated into this
evaluation. The evaluation will focus on critical parameters such as oil
yield, combustion of residual carbon, quality of oil produced and of
by-products, overall energy efficiency, retorting rate, water consumption, and
manpower requirements. These results will determine which retorting process
or processes will be used for the economic feasibility study. The terms of
reference for this evaluation, for which an outline was discussed during
negotiations, will be agreed by loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections
3.02 (b)(i) and 7.01 (c)) and consultants would be hired by August 1, 1982
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)(ii)).
66.      The feasibility study will provide a comprehensive analysis of the
economics of different commercial operations for production of oil from
shale. A final production capacity of 50,000 bbl/day will be assumed to be
built up from an initial production rate of lO,OOObbl/day. The feasibility
study will be broken down into two parts:
(i)  the mine component will include review of existing geological data,
gathering and evaluation of additional geological, hydrological and
geotechnical data based on additional boreholes, detailed mine
planning for initial production rates of 10 million tpy (to be
expanded over time to 50 million tpy), and estimates of capital and
operating costs, to determine the likely price of shale for delivery
by the proposed mine. An important aspect of the mine study will be
the evaluation of the environmental impact of disposal of spent sbhlle
and eventual land reclamation. Spent shale produced from the
retorting at the test station will be analyzed in order to determine
its physical and chemical characteristics (e.g., stability, organic
residues) and recommend measures for adequate environmental
protection. As it is planned that the mine could eventually supply
both the commercial-scale oil shale retorting plant and the direct
combustion plant planned by ONE (see para. 58), the mine study is a
crucial element in the analysis of the feasibility of both the
proposed retorting and direct combustion plants, and special emphasis
is being placed on this component in the first months of project
implementation. Terms of reference for this study, have already been
agreed and consultants would be hired by August 1, 1982 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)(ii)).
(ii) the retorting plant and infrastructure component will include a
preliminary site layout, process flowsheets, basic design features of
critical components, as well as a comprehensive overview and capital
and operating cost estimates for all production and support
facilities (in addition to the mine) necessary to produce oil from
shale such as: handling, crushing and sizing of raw shale;
treatment, storage and transportation of the oil produced;
utilization of the gas; water and power supply; pollution control;



- 23 -
transportation infrastructure and housing. As part of the analysis
of the utilization and treatment of the products of retorting,
samples of shale oil produced in the test station will be analyzed in
refineries to determine an adequate flowsheet for the treatment of
this oil, and samples will also be burned in oil-fired power plants
to determine whether this would be a possible use for the oil. An
assessment of the environmental conditions at Timahdit and the
standards to be used for pollution control will also form part of
this study. The retorting process or processes to be used in this
study will be chosen following the comparative evaluation of
retorting processes described in para. 64 above. Terms of reference
will be agreed by March 31, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02
(b)(ii)) and consultants would be hired by June 30, 1984 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)(iii)).
The two components of the study will be integrated for the assessment of the
technical, financial and economic viability of the production of oil from
shale in Timahdit.
67.      The comparison between retorting of shale and direct combustion will
investigate the impact of each of these routes on the reduction of oil imports
and will compare the costs required to achieve the same impact and the
relative constraints and risks involved. It will consist of a comparison of
the results of the economic feasibility study for shale oil production
described above with the economic feasibility study for a direct combustion
demonstration plant prepared by ONE (see para. 58). The terms of reference
for this study will be agreed by September 30, 1985 (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.01 (b)) and consultants would be hired by December 31, 1985
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(a)). During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that prior to initiating construction of a shale-fired power plant,
the feasibility study for the power plant will be discussed with the Bank
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 4.03(b)).
Project Implementation
68.      Except for the comparison between retorting and direct combustion,
which will be carried out under the supervision of the Ministry of Energy and
Mines, the project will be implemented by ONAREP's Oil Shale Division. The
Division comprises five sections: (i) the geological and mining exploration
section, which will design, manage and evaluate the exploration of the
Timahdit and other shale deposits; (ii) the mining section, which will
supervise the implementation of the mining study financed under the project;
(iii) the pilot plant section, responsible for the contruction and operation
of the Timahdit test station and the implementation and analysis of the shale
testing program; (iv) the retorting section, in charge of the technical
evaluation of alternative retorting processes and the retorting plant
feasibility study; and (v) the planning section, which will coordinate all
aspects of the feasibility studies as well as undertake the overall financial
and economic analysis. The latter section will also coordinate the various
components of the Bank-financed project and ensure in turn their coordination



- 24 -
with parallel projects in the sector. In addition to these technical
sections, a small administrative unit will be attached directly to the
Division Chief to supervise contract management for the project.
69.      The Shale Division will be staffed with about thirty engineers,
geologists and financial analysts, m,ost of whom are already in place.
Confirmation of the appointment of the Division Chief, all section heads and a
contract management specialist is a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.01 (b)(ii) and 7.01 (b). Through the exploration and
test work already carried out by BRPM for Timahdit, ONAREP has accumulated
considerable expertise in the technical aspects of shale mining and
retorting. However, ONAREP's staff lack practical experience in the
management and mDnitoring of the multiple aspects of an oil shale retorting
operation, which would be gained under the proposed project. As direct
involvement in the construction and operation of the test station is
considered vital for the desired technology transfer, the station will be
operated mainly by Moroccan personnel who will be trained on the job by
consultants during the start-up and initial operating phase. A detailed
organization chart and job descriptions for the Oil Shale Division were agreed
with ONAREP during negotiations.
70.      For the execution of the Engineering Project, ONAREP has obtained or
will obtain assistance from consultants whose qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(a) and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)). About
670 man-months of consultant services will be financed through the loan, in
particular, for:
(i) The management of the test station construction which has
been entrusted, with Bank approval, by ONAREP to Davy McKee
Inc., (DMC), a US engineering and construction firm with
wide experience in construction management of large-scale
industrial plants as well as oil shale pilot plants. The
project manager will assist ONAREP in procuring the
equipment, supervise the construction and commissioning of
the test station and assist during the start-up period.
About 110 man-nxnths are allocated for these tasks;
(ii) General technical assistance for the duration of the
project and in particular, to assist ONAREP in the
definition and implementation of the test program in the
Timahdit test station and in interpreting the test results,
for which O0AREP has retained, with Bank approval, the
services of Science Applications Inc. (SAI). SAI will
provide about 135 man-months of staff to ONAREP during the
construction, start-up and operation of the station;
(iii)  The technical evaluation of retorting processes, the mine
as well as the retorting and infrastructure components of
the economic feasibility study and the comparison of



- 25 -
retorting shale and direct combustion, will be carried out
by experienced consulting firms selected in accordance with
Bank guidelines. A total of 425 man-months have been
allocated for these studies.
71.      The projected project implementation period is about 4 years.
Construction of the Timahdit test station, which is on the critical path, is
expected to require 13 months from the time the first equipment orders are
placed (May 1982). After a start-up phase of 3 months (third quarter of 1983)
the testing program requires 9 months of plant operations and is thus expected
to be completed by mid 1984. The technical evaluation of retorting processes
will start in mid 1982, and, after consultation of process licensors and, if
necessary, execution of additional tests in foreign pilot plants, will be
completed by the last quarter of 1984. The mine component of the feasibility
study is expected to be underway by mid 1982, but the retorting plant and
infrastructure component will not be undertaken until the preliminary results
of the comparison of retorting processes are available in mid 1984. Finally,
the comparison of direct combustion versus retorting will be done in early
1986, once the feasibility study has been completed. The project would be
completed by March 31, 1986. A detailed time schedule showing the execution
of the different project components is given in Annex IV.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
72.      The total cost of the project has been estimated at $25.7 millioni/
inc uding taxes, of which $20.0 million or 78%, are in foreign exchange.
Taxes are estimated at $1.3 million. The total costs for equipment and
construction of the Timahdit test station have been estimated at $7.4 million,
including $1.4 million for the services of DMC as Project Manager, expected to
total about 110 man-months at an average cost of $12,500 per man-month. These
estimates have been compiled by SAI and confirmed by DMC after a detailed
review of test station design and cost. Operating costs for the test station
are estimated at $2.8 million, including about $1.0 million for the services
of SAI, estimated at 70 man-months at an average cost of $14,000 per
man-month. $1.7 million have been allocated for consultant services for the
technical evaluation of retorting processes, including additional testing, if
necessary, by process licensors and 100 man-months of the services of
consultants and process licensors, at an average cost of $12,500 per
man-month, including all fees, reimbursables, transportation and subsistence.
$3.1 million have been allocated for the mine study, including $0.9 million
for additional exploration of the deposit and 170 man-months of consultant
services at an average cost of $12,500 per man-month. The plant and
infrastructure component of the feasibility study and the comparison between
shale retorting and direct combustion are estimated to cost $2.0 million for
155 man-months of consultant services at an average cost of $12,500 per
man-month. $0.9 million have been allocated for general technical
1/ mid I9M1 prices.



- 26 -
assistance to cover the cost of the services to ONAREP provided primarily by
SAI throughout the project, expected to amunt to 65 man-months at an average
cost of $14,000 per man-month including all fees, reimbursables,
transportation and subsistence. To the total base costs of $17.9 million,
$3.6 million have been added for physical contingencies, representing 20% of
base costs for the construction of the test station as well as for studies and
technical assistance. $4.2 million have been added as price contingencies
based on assumed local inflation of 11% in 1981, 10% in 1982 and 9% in 1983
and thereafter and international inflation of 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, and 8%
in 1983, 1984 and 1985. Total contingencies amount to 43% of estimated base
costs. The costs discussed above do not include the $2.5 million allocated to
oil shale studies under Loan S-18 (Petroleum Exploration Project), which are
to cover the work previously contracted to SAI (see para. 53).
73.      The proposed engineering loan of $20.0 million will be made to ONAREP
at 11.6% interest per annum for 17 years including a 4-year grace period. It
would finance all the foreign exchange cost of the project (78%) with the
exception of the indirect foreign exchange costs incurred in the erection and
operation of the test station and in carrying out additional drilling work for
the mine study. The $0.2 million earmarked for the comparative study of
retorting versus direct combustion, will be onlent to the Government.
Finalization of financing arrangements for this comparative study satisfactory
to ONAREP, the Government and the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(c) and 7.01(a)).
74.      The local cost comoonent of $5.7 million (22%) will be financed by
the Moroccan Government through annual budget allocations to ONAREP. Dur .g
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will (i) provirce
ONAREP with the necessary local funds through annual budget allocations; and
(ii) provide financing for any cost overrun, both in local or foreign
currency, for completion of the project (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02).
ONAREP would assume the foreign exchange risk.
Procurement and Disbursements
75.      As most of the equipment packages are small (below $300,000), limited
international tendering (LIT), according to Bank guidelines, will be followed
for procurement of all equipment, totalling about $3.2 million. The
mechanical erection of the test station (estimated to cost about $1.4
million), will be contracted according to international competitive bidding
(ICB). Civil works and electrical erection will be contracted locally
according to local procedures and will be financed by the Government.
Additional geological drilling will be carried out and financed by ONAREP.
Technical assistance will be contracted internationally according to the
Bank's guidelines.



- 27 -
76.      Disbursement of the Bank loan will be made against:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of equipment procured under ICB or
LIT
(b) 100% of total cost of mechanical erection contracts procured under
ICB; and
(c) 100% of the foreign exchange expenditures and 85% of local
expenditures for consultant services (including provision of
information and testing of shale by process licensors).
The proposed loan is expected to be fully disbursed by September 30, 1986
(Annex V).
77.      Retroactive financing of an amount not exceeding $2.0 million is
recommended to complete the financing of the studies already contracted to SAI
(see para. 53) which were initially financed under the Petroleum Exploration
Project, as well as the engineering design work carried out by DMC with Bank
approval and downpayments for long lead-time equipment items (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 4).
ONAREP's Financial Position
78.      ONAREP's initial financial position will not be determined until the
separation of assets and liabilities between BRPM and ONAREP is finally agreed
(see para. 43). The final opening balance sheet will be audited by September
1, 1982 and annual accounts will be audited and submitted to the Bank
regularly thereafter (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02). In addition, submission
of ONAREP's approved 1982 work program and budget is a condition of
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.01 (c) and 7.01 (d)). Because of
the nature of its activities -- hydrocarbon exploration and development (of
which petroleum exploration represents about 90%) -- the future financial
position and the cash generating capacity of ONAREP cannot be predicted.
Should a major discovery of oil or gas take place, ONAREP could enjoy a very
sound financial position; otherwise it will have to rely on budgetary
allocations to cover its obligations over the next few years, as BRPM had in
the past. The future soundness of ONAREP's financial position and its
capacity to service its debt depends, in the final analysis, on the Guarantor,
the Moroccan Government.
79.      In the past, BRPM/ONAREP has had considerable cash flow problems, and
has periodically accumulated serious short-term arrears. Some of the cash
flow difficulties will be alleviated by using direct payment disbursement
procedures under the proposed loan whenever possible, in order to avoid the
administrative bottlenecks that have delayed presentation of reimbursement
requests under the Petroleum Exploration Project. Nonetheless, to ensure that
ONAREP can meet its continuous payment obligations, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that ONAREP would maintain sufficient working capital to
meet its short-term financial obligations in a timely fashion (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.07). ONAREP's ability to meet the requirements of this covenant is



- 28 -
further guaranteed by the Government (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02). The
Bank will carry on a continuing dialogue with ONAREP concerning appropriate
financial guidelines, which would be agreed once ONAREP's financial structure
is mDre clearly defined and in the light of the possibility of a future
project for gas production, which could convert ONAREP into a
revenue-generating entity.
Benefits and Risks
80.      The potential benefits of oil shale development in Morocco are
substantial if not presently quantifiable. A 10,000 bbl/day shale retorting
plant, currently envisaged as the minimum scale commercial operation, would
replace close to 15% of Morocco's present oil imports; a 50,000 bbl/day plant
could produce up to 2.5 tpy of oil, which represents about two-thirds of
current oil imports. If oil shale retorting technology proves to be viable,
Morocco would be in a position to meet a significant portion of its demand for
oil by local production based on the proven reserves at the Timahdit oil shale
deposit. The nore i mmdiate benefits from this engineering project will stem
from the comprehensive and reliable information which the project will
generate and which will help the Moroccan Government to make an educated
decision on whether or not to proceed with further investments in oil shale
development, on the selection of the optimum retorting process for an eventual
commercial plant and finally, on the priority to be assigned between possible
routes for exploitation of national oil shale resources (retorting and direct
combustion of shale). An additional benefit from the project, and more
specifically of the test station operation, is the practical experience which
the implementation of the project will provide to the Moroccans. It is
crucial that the Moroccan engineers as well as the Government officials who
will be responsible for the very large investments required for oil shale
development gain an in-depth understanding of the operational, technical and
economic issues involved in oil shale development, which will strengthen them
for future negotiations with foreign process holders.
81.      The principal project risk lies in the uncertainty of the ultimate
development of an oil shale retorting industry in Morocco (see paras. 48-49).
The technical, environmental and financial constraints facing the embryonic
oil shale industry are such that nobody can presently assess whether or not
oil shale retorting is a viable alternative for the production of domestic
fuel. There is a possibility that the proposed project would be a wasted
effort if oil shale development did not prove to be a realistic alternative.
However, in the face of the urgency and extent of Morocco's energy dependency
problem and in view of the long lead time required and uncertainties involved
in developing any new energy source, the Moroccan Government believes that the
risk of investing in the development of an unproven technology must be taken.
However, the Government is aware that, particularly in view of the enormous
financial and human resources required to implement a full scale retorting
operation, final commercial investment decisions must only be taken after
extensive studies and testing, and for this reason has adopted a phased
approach to its shale development program, with decision points carefully
built in at the end of each phase before further investments are undertaken.



- 29 -
82.      Another risk for this project could be that the Government might make
commitments before the completion and review of the studies financed under the
proposed project, which would limit its freedom to choose among the various
investment options. Any agreement which would bind the Government to one
retorting process or to a particular foreign partner, would frustrate the
basic purpose of the studies financed under the Bank project, whose aim is to
assist the Government to make a decision on future investments in oil shale on
the basis of a neutral comparison of all available alternatives and an
objective assessment of the technical and economic viability of the approach
chosen. The execution of contractual arrangements, which would constrain the
Government's freedom regarding final investment decisions, or hinder in any
way the execution of the studies financed under the proposed project, would be
considered a special event of loan suspension (see para. 57). The addition of
these remedies to those normally provided under the General Conditions would
allow the Government the flexibility to enter into contractual arrangements
with other partners which would be consistent with the objectives of the
proposed project, while safeguarding the Bank from proceeding with the project
if changing circumstances affect the basic rationale of the project and render
it invalid. A related risk concerns the access by the consultants hired to
carry out the comparative analysis of retorting processes to confidential
information on the technical aspects of such processes, which is generally
protected under secrecy agreements. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the consultants would be given adequate access to the
necessary information (see para. 65).
83       A related risk concerns the viability of the locally developed T3
process (see para. 54). The chances of developing the T3 process to a
commercial stage presently appear limited and therefore further work on the T3
process, in particular the testing of the process in the Timahdit test
station, might be viewed as unjustified. However, only a small part of the
total project relates exclusively to the evaluation and development of the T3
process (9% of total base project cost). Moreover, the attempt by the
Moroccans to develop a local process will serve as a practical training tool
for Moroccan engineers and technicians which would prove valuable for any
program to develop oil shale extraction, while avoiding commitment at this
preliminary stage to a particular foreign retorting process.
84.      Another potential risk relates to the capacity of ONAREP to implement
this engineering project and effectively assess options for future
investments. The appointment of qualified staff to ONAREP's Oil Shale
Division is a condition of effectiveness and ONAREP and the Bank have agreed
on staffing plans and organizational structure for the Division (see para.
69). The consultant contracts with SAI and DMC have been examined with a view
to maximizing on-the-job training for Moroccan counterparts, and contracts for
the various studies to be financed under the project will also focus on the
crucial aspects of technology transfer and institution-building.



- 30 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND ATJTHORITY
85.      The draft Loan Agreement between ONAREP and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, the draft
Loan Assumption Agreement (Loan S-18) and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
86.      Among the features of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following
conditions are of special interest:
Special conditions of effectiveness of the loan are:
a) Approval by the Council of Ministers of the implementing decree
concerning ONAREP's administrative structure (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(e)).
b) Finalization of arrangements for the study comparing shale retorting
and direct combustion (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(c) and 7.01(a)).
c) Confirmation of the employment of division chiefs for the Financial,
Administrative and Shale Divisions and of additional staff for
ONAREP's Oil Shale Division (Loan Agreement, Sections 4.01(b) and
7.01(b)).
d) Agreement on the terms of reference for the technical evaluatio- of
retorting processes (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (b)(i) and Se-.tion
7.01(c)).
e) Submission to the Bank of a provisional opening balance sheet for
ONAREP together with a qualified auditor's opinion thereon, and of
ONAREP's approved 1982 work program and budget (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.01 (c) and 7.01 (d)).
f) Approval of the regulations for the transfer of BRPM's assets
liabilities and staff relating to petroleum and oil shale activities,
to ONAREP (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (e)).
87.      Special events of loan suspension are; any contractual arrangement
which (i) interferes with the carrying out of the project, or (ii) restricts
in any way the ability of the Borrower or the Guarantor to apply the
conclusions of the project studies in selecting the most appropriate shale
retorting process (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).
88.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 31 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Alden W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Moeen A. Qureshi
March 3, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGCITED AVE AGES
LAND AREA (ThULSAND SQ. I M.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE>-
TOTAL            447.0/C                                                     MIDDLE INCOME
AGRlCULTURAL     203. 77c                              MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA 6           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
ChP PER CAPITA (USS)                  200.0       310.0      740.0                 865.5                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTIUN PER CAPITA
(KILOGkAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      169.3       222.2      315.2                 758.3                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STAIISTICS
POPULAT1ON, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 11626.U      14993.0   19538.0
LRBAN POPULATUON (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3         34.6       39.9                 45.2                     64.2
POPULATIOh PROJECTlONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2UO  (MILLIONS)                      35.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         81.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2090
PUPFULATIIN DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                        26.0        33.5      43.7                  36.3                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      59.0        76.0      92.9                 442.7                     94.5
PUPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YhS.                          44.8        47.6      46.3                  44.2                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.6        48.3      50.4                  52.4                     55.3
b5 YhS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         4.1        3.3                  3.4                      4.0
POFULATIUN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                               2.6         2.5       2.9                   2.7                      2.4
URBAN                               3.7         4.2       4.5                   4.6                      3.7
CRUDL BIRTh BATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.2        47.4      44.2                  41.5                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH BATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.8        16.4       12.8                 12.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RAIE               3.6         3.5        3.2                  2.9                      2.3
FAtilLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (IHOUSANDS)        ..        25.1      78.0
USERS (PERCLNT Or SDARRIED WOMEN)    ..         1.0       5.4
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INUEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-IUU)          99.0         98.0      85.0                  96.3                    108.3
PEtR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAL,OIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                   96.0        102.0     105.0                 110.4                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0         66.0      67.0                  73.4                     65.8
OP WHICH ANLIAL 55D PULSE        13.0        13.0      13.0                  17.1                     34.0
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MUOTALITY RATE      30.3        21.9      15.7                  14.9                      7.6
hEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT bIBTH (YEARS)    46.9         51.9      56.4                  55.9                     64.1
INFANT MORTALIIVY
BATE (PER THWUSAND)                  ..          ..        ..                    .,                     70.9
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT UF
POP ULATION)
TOTAL                              30.6        51.0      55.0                  59.4                     65.7
URBAN                             58.7         92.0     100.0                  83.9                     79.7
RUhAL                              19.0        28.0      25.0                  40.8                     43.9
ACCESS TU EXChETA DUStOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        29.0        ..                    ..                     59.9
UKbAh                               ..         75.0        ..                    ..                     75.7
RURAL                                ..         4.0        ..                     .                     30.4
POPULATIoN PEA PHYSICIAN          9406.1/d   12814.5   11037.4                 4174.5                   1728.2
PoPULAIlON PER NURSIN( PERSON          ..      2742.2    1693.5                1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATION PER hOSPITAL bED
TOUAL                            626.0        664.3     773.6                 647.4                    471.2
URBAh                               ..        454.7     623.4                 547.2                    558.0
RURAL                               *.       5821.4    3089.5                3361.1
AWIlSNIONS PER HUSPUTAL BED            ..        15.5       16.5                 25.3
PODUS UNo
AVERAGE SIZE OfP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.8          5.5
URBAN                              4.3          4.9
bUKAL                               5.1         5.8
AVEBAGE INNbER OF PERSONS PER ROOKl
TOUAL                               2.2         2.4
URBAN                               2.1         2.1
RURAL                               2.3         2.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Uo  DWELLINGN)
TOTAL                              76.1/e        ..
URBAN                              85.47T      68.4      65.0
KRUAL                             30.8           ..        ..



-  33-                                     ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  2  oof  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE.AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)- a
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         52.0       72.0                  85.1                    101.7
MALE                  67.0        67.0       90.0                 101.5                     103.0
FEMALE                27.0        36.0       54.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  5.0         13.0      20.0                   38.0                     35.3
MALE                   7.0         18.0      25.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                 2.0         7.0       15.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..           2.0        3.0                  11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0         34.0      39.0                   34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                            ..         20.0      21.0                   23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         14.0        21.4       28.0                  43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0         14.8      19.6                  18.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         45.8         62.4      87.4                 121.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4         11.6      32.6                   37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  22.0         16.2       10.7                  35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            ..        2.0                   3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3369.7       3951.7    5117.3
REMALE (PERCENT)                   10.1         14.1      15.6                   10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              62.5         56.9      52.7                   43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.8         17.4      20.7                  27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                29.0         26.4      26.2                   26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 52.1         45.2       44.2                  47.0                     49.0
FaIALE                                5.9          7.5       8.2                    5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         2.0        1.9                   1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f        20.0/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.37?        49.07        -*
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.07?         4.07T.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f        12.0/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0        157.0     389.0                 271.4
RURAL                              66.0        101.0     238.0                  144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     242.0                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     157.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              51.0         38.0      28.0                  22.1
RURAL                              49.0         45.0      45.0                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1962; /e Brick buildings only; /f Consumption expenditures of households.
Revised
June, 1981



- 34-
ANNEX I
D50N1flO   OP SOIAL SMICATUS                                                             Pi      e   63
kin.:;  Although tha data .rs dosea ton         en._    nraiiy jodgsd th  -ant aothoritatv- and -val.hl. it ebold Al- he noted that they  -y -t ho Oter
naconlly cangaablo b -  t. o  the l.,.  of otaaaoiad ddiaitiona   -deaete nod by dLffsront onutrisa in tol1atttng tb. dot..  The data AoS,noe
thai.... uaef,r  to d-aoibo orderv of mwtnda   bltoat trada. and thr-ant-e cetain.l  -Jot difforseog  heave  cntrius.
Th.            S- no.goPn ton (l) toe o-   toatoy - g owft the enhJot oouCto  -s  (2) A naty  group with -.nt higher averag   main  th    the..  c try group
of rho sobjct country  (enopt tr "Capitol Serpilr  Ci apeftere" groop thre 9fiddie Intn  Unrtb AUt.en   idi  te"ta                         chats.1t-1.W   hnree  Ofsrna
eoi-oiuo  atotiaol.  In the rpfea. gro-p data the              s. vroa* n   pop.Ition, ned$ad -rinastir  -an  far eah  ndictato  ad sha   odi  A-
neJority of the cootries in a artup he. dat. for that 4dtaare.  Si-o the covrag  of c                         .nti .tan  the Idicator  dapode  -t the aLiatlbity of data
a Ld tont -eif.-e,  -tauti  stt he    roisnd t. ralti         vug    of eon indicator to Aanthao.  Thea  avrgn   r   nl   sful it cmpert5 the vaioe of
o.indicator e at rAn arts the rotatr  Aad  onfetonin gropa.
ltASa(thou.and s4.k..)                                                                       Poroletior Ott Scent.1 goAaotl           wrbo n  rura  -Pourir(total,
ik      Total woface er.uyi in ard are   d  Inlad .at.ra.                                      orhot  end  -utu   divided hy thinrtepcto  uta.r at hop1Pi1tai heda
AFlps4LV5   - getmntt Of ag-irat-re  none ua   twlraily or peroatetly                             .evailble it poblit not prOvers genera  ned aparinte-d hospital end te-
e,  pasren, nethe  and kittrht gerdue rr to lie fellow; 19)g data.                       hhilitotlotcnrr.           KoPitala ore estsbliishte  pereetly statfnd
by at l-as  on  phyniciAo.  fp.hi          -eiro ing prioipeily oeatr-
GNP PER CAPITA (till - GNP Par .aPite otaeaet --ret nrket prione, cal-                              dal  cars art nut i-oidad.  Sr-1 hoapitols, hvr, Saolod  healrh
clalted by  -n  c-t-tiou  etbod at World leok Atlon  (1977-79 beeia); 1960,                       as asdio..  caters eat potaetly staffnd hy A phyaicmn (her by 
197i, rud 1979 daro.                                                                              asic.l a..sietaut, oars. ntddifo, err.) WUbit  offe  ia-patint eArs-
dori- end provide A 1iic-d r-tg  of -sioni foilititmn.  Fot sttie-
URWIC! CitIfPl   PtO CAPITA - Aro-al  oora-priot of  -oercin1 eogy I(oa                              tionl popsecbun hospital, inclde VW. yraialgare    epirala,
end Ig Tta   potoloun, neturo1 g.e otd hrydo-, -cacit   and aSotborel .is-                        ar r-rs  bo.Ptptna    laco  or  -urI hoepitaic  ad asiol Aad eat-roty
tricityl io lilogrsn  of coaI aqoitalrtot P co.pite; i960, 1970, acd 1979                         loettre.  tpciclieod hoepiraln  -t  ir1ndd only osatr tatal.
data.                                                                                           Ade.isscu  our B.aettol Oo  - Total arur of W.Uiagen   to or diouhorse.
tout hoopital. dldvdd by the oubat of beds.
POPtCLA7lOt AlM VITAL STATISTICS
Total Popolotict. Kid-lear (ohousAtod) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, .ed 1979                  HOMSIi
data.                                                                                         Avrn   ie  ftoaed   age   o  hnood   total.ob-, -s rura  -
irhc ob lolo  (rpr-t  of total>  - Ratio ot arber tc coelpt             ulttr                     A1 bouhold conirMo      ropo  itdodal=               h  aaoliigqetr
dOt aret dotet 'oo    ofub-u none  toyottartl -oerablity of dots                          end thei  sir  eal.,  A b-od-r to lodger to   r-    a   e ioldad in
aeo    oura;1960, 1970ed 1979 dr.hooehldfrotitioi purpos..
Po.     tirPro_tecinAeoawaa  of toan                                                                                              o.-total.  oba.. asd tuo  -Atrpa 
PPonlatio  it coa  200. - Cutreut poplatico plr.i-tic   era ho...tdon 19t0                      bet of Patnen  Par rou  In all orhao. and rura  no-piad rouroa
ttalt oplatcoby er act se  act their norrolity oct fartility tr,                              detiga., onep,uctittiy.  botIltoge ertlde  o-nnen.nutre
Projeotioc Poaae..r  flo  artolity t-t-  tonprin  or choso levlsasus                          unotPied Palle.
in   ift.xeotrcyatbirthtintraeiu  oith conryspo   rit  non                           Otn  to Eleotrtityin   (erst.of dua11leaal -' toa.          -ru.As  oa
lee M o  tnnel  lito  nce         tobiliria.r7.  yers           hl. pore-                Cooutir    'ultZewt   lotiiyi  i ing qar-  on P.--eata
cotafo  fsrtlt tyoetoe    hv.- three lee-1osau   dncline in                              of total. arhat, and ruro  dwellioao r_potittly.
tactility  acoc_dino  to iroc-  lava1 otd ten  fatly pl.ooIng parfontt..
tEch t.oocoy I, 'h.r aeoigoed cue of thee. oilo  -obtoetioan of  -ntolity                EDUCATION
e,cd  -tsrilicy trade for poojetriocprps                                                    Aduto  ftrline  Satins
Sttoi-nrv toPo1etioc - ire  eotio....ry popoletico thor, is o- ocruh stin r-er'hoL  - ttal. n     ad f-me  - Groon total,1 nae Aad tans
the birth  -tar  ie tqua  rthi  dthut  re, end alo- th,g   t,rtr   n                            etie  of ell oats at the pooeovy lao  a   aruoa                  of -eapaltrs
eactc tto    This i. achieved only  fttet feriiy ltote  doulto  to                        prnr   colaa              ltin.-; totally larluoa childra ogad h-il
ohs repiecentu le-o  of oult -elepctticrte.  hnr oath genorecicr                                year  hut odlaetd for dif feret latgth.ofu prisry  edatine; frr
ot acoo  roplurs. ireni1  noattly. The  ttoeypupulattorsin  on                                  ontiewth e_tv.r..l    ..ocett. earolnet my  mad 199 pottunt
1eti"arod orthe   nt  of. nth  Projcte  oharetritistc    of the poplaion                        s1tat  non  Ppila .rs bab! or  b.or the uffitia  tobo   ASo..
io rho year 2000, octid  tote .t.  tadclire of ferrilicr  rers cto lplate-                    inoonda-  ached   - totL al  adfa             - C---,"d es obrv;  -aodary
stin  burl                                                                                      tdcto eeree   ee   oryuso   pproved prisry iaetrutia;
You etationty p.oralar.io  .a rothod - The yao  is    tciev   popu1atico                          procUre.  gootrol  -orronl,o rouc,hor tr-itag taoctoefor puPtb
atm  e hor-mehad.                                                                          coal   fi   c1   ar   f eecr pondeac   cacre_  00  ganoaly
_ocoto  lnit,y. nelde
Per oo. k. - Al-y-a  popuioticr pro aqoer  ktlonter (100 hecturr..) orfttoo   ocina   nrac  of ancodar)                                              notnelinti-ultane
tote- oao  1960,1.1971 art 1979 dae                                                             maclade ttlohttcl, indostoin, or other progr-  nbih oprata tideped-
Pato.  h. :atiotue  ld- C"Putdo   bv   o   gtocrlma                                               ety do    fpareatet of e-aroder  iaottitona-
coly; 1960, 1970 eod 1979 data.Prltuhrrto-rro.                                                                                  a    aedary - Te.a  ardousrrodi
Popolotior ode itr torur  frprant  - Chiltr.. (0-ic yaral),  -ckiro-ag. (15-                        piar  ad  uoeoo   rrl    divde  by ,tfer  of tuhtei   the
64 yeoral  act retired (65 yeorn otd  -vr   ,potren  ot ott-you  popo-                            otr.p..n.         Lte
laiat o; 1960. 1970,.ad 1979daa                                                                 Adult liteacyeto   ercatl - Litera.te adult. (ebl  to read ot- ire
Ponolti- Growh  et R      rsot rr - oa       aolb          h autos of total old-                    eep-rcetogo of totol Salt pupoltto  Sagd 11 yo.areadovr
ysurpopoitioco too 191-6g!        96 0-0  at1970_79.
Porulatic, Groth Sate (parcoot) - other - aaToalCgocuh rate.aofpolstipopo--IP...ltPTl-
Crude i.       a.(o  thouned)9- eAtua  Live bIrths ps-  thoosad of nud-yoe                        tore seat tog .a. that sight puranea; eacldes atlanta. hears and
popolati.a; 1960. 1970, c.d 1979 daro..                                                         et:irayvoholn.1
Crde"lat  Ste (oar rhounotd  - Auooi death. Per rh..oooda of sit-yearRadio touiar  ta  thouoad porulotict  - All rypan of roto.vv-  for rAdio
ptatiot; 1960. 170, art 1979 dore                                                           broeoote to ga-rt  pubic par thooaad of populorton;  onoldoo.
Groneoul        rc  St- Ae..oge ouber of dough,rer  o  oe   ill her-Cr                            lise      rnov.       n  otr    ad t  yer            _a rogietr_ti_ ofrai
bar tirol osprodcitpurtot if ab.                        .  .o.taoe  ostrogn.-ecific ftr-        ente weIt offot; data too  -nn  yeats sty net he cogperthl  sis-
tility fu..e; usaly fivaya   vtgaaigi  1960, 197, and 1979.                                     oust  ttarian abolished liounin..
teell  'Iton  -Adocoptre. doonl 1(thunad)    Aaoual  shar rf -cop.ot.                         TV Sciturefear th-Auand ootitinn   - TV r                   fnias  o  hvadoet to
of hrbtcootrol ti.   ce  epinofotnafaly plouiugpooe.4na  public pa  thouand P1oIoltict; eaiedne alinarud TVreovn
fnly Pi-ooir  - teats (rorcoto   nete                   P=nt       Lacoooofociti  c.oeottin  rod in  our abet retiatr-rio  of TV eato at in ofet.
totoo  cld-beit  oar (11-46 yeaoe  to use birth-corrl devi.o. tcSwree   iclelt(    aheoae  ro trioinn    S-  a  the   -Aeago oit
all  stvntwne  t  ae  g  gop.                                                                   coeiro-diygnrliira    aewpapn' dafind oe    psrrudie
piblicatton devted pltaaeri  ly  t-raudiaageora   a             It in ronadasd
Pou ANt NTtotTniMo                                                                                  to ho "daily" if it appaer- at leaat foo  tiaa  0wek
todno of toadPood-occ  oat Cuotta 11969-71-idOl - Icta  of too coittoo-uI                       Ciase  Aana1 Attendanc  rar Cootte oar tatr - Maad o   ho w,nt of
yrdoctio  of all foo  -       dintirio.  P'odcriot ta1idt  ered oot fendAdoctichen  go ld doting the year  inriodit   dnai4                            et  driv-ic riusa
is on celeoter Ys-  hboce   Coditictosovo  otinoy goods Cog,. egroute                           end eabilo oolr..
merestd of euor) ohioh ate e`ible  r oad        t  oclircaca   (..g, toffee nod
to  oro  -cloto) .  Atoruteo' ponduci.or  f eac   conryt  hoe  on. dFORy0CE
neciealscosgeprooot prltn oighta; 1961-65. 1970, end 1979 data.                        Totel Labor Porc  (tho-nadel - rtot-it-ly notiva pure.inladiag
Pnr coricta ocurly of. calria (.rso   ofrairnvs-- C-puo  foo                                     rnttocsed  mlyn    u    Docladiugboaeivte:r.  aetaet.
Per toy.  Available supplies t           dpia  oati   rtti io    ty .ts .as                   rt ... otoblt; 1960. 1970 ad 1979 dtsr.
rptta   r   hno   oeoi    e   uplo    ult   tolfn,ao,                                     faal  (nrnu'     P       lo ob.orforco  a , paceag   of totel Ileo  forr.
quactitiosusotd it toot prooasu'   and loes  otirib ou   aqMo                              Arclue(te               -labor foc  in trn-Its, fuoaa- . hooting ad
ouceace  arneadby TAO boaod ca phyailolgicel nee ds for .oIa ecri-                      tiait   septerg    f total labor forco; 1969. 1970 ad 1979 dane.
itd se_ distiobhtioc of popolacion, ert n11nica 10 percent  for roses eatend oao                           ry    tte  otd gas es parce-og   Of toral lebor force; 190,
hocsbltleal;191-5,191,. ant  9197 dote                                                 1970  dtt1979 tote.
Pot a  dic   eculyo   rci  (aren  ort taty    Pootein coucof per topita                   Parcctorta  Sac  Ioucatl-crl  oe   d  am        ucr tio   t o
un-op,ly ot fond pet toy.  Net repyly of food ie deieAs bv.h-                                oityotarcnutde                     toal   es   d    aelbo   rc
daira.tan    tot all.. cuotinestab;Iisbad 'by USlA provide too ebbtiarcetage  f  ctot1l  stIa oct ftas  Wpupuicto   of ellagu.reap-ctivoly;
oluca Of  0Seeof toaprtei  pu  day ott--  20 gSat  of aia-I and                       1960, 1970. end 1979 dtor.  The.e eon ha..d or ILl's  pettitputto   ratee
pclao prti,of thih 10 aton  ahould h                  pnar  prti.Ta.oud                        alntn    s-s   autr f rht ppluto.ed loog tine ctad
-da  o  ba  ca  roes   f 75 gcaaa oft cot   pr-i  tnt 123 grane of                            few neinareat tra f      ntiou  sourc=.
oiaL-  l potioo   tecra   o  aswvd  p,oopad by FAO it the Third                            uccouic1 Deroodnt  Ratio - Ratio of pupulatto  adn   15 end 61 ond ovr
Acrid Food Scovoy; 1961-61, 1970 ort 1977 tt,to a-bn totalf oodd._  labor fnrce.
Per caPit. orotei. soorly trot euloo  act pulsePcrcsplyo.                   o   a
rivo   fra =atoal  ad po1.aae inlgr       Pa tt day; 1961-65, 1970 cot 1977dt.-          INOCME olTIST OllST
Child (es14   trtylt  Sra Curt thousad>  A- dnnldrtha peltabo-eud in                            Pecatr  ntPiarb              e(both In ceah and bitt  - Sa-icd byr~itbhe
oao  roap1-Ayour, a  thiltreric able tgS ru;frsocdvlpo   or                               5 perat   iroa1  pra,Pooroa  2l pu-tot, no   ooe   0 par-t
ara   aaeie   ylos Ilifetbo;l,190ed97  date.                             ...            of hoonebolte.
HEALTH                                                                                          POVEttTY TAALGPT GitUPS
Lit !, soao  at-~,   - llrhIer>      vr5  casbe  of onto of lis. trnioi                        The following netioto   to very opproc itootma              of p-vrcylona
Infn      roiylo   Pet thousod)  k-Idro  tdoths of  ofant  order coo year                       tatterd Aolbslut   oet  ieth   at   Is  u   ela     obna    ua
ofoa  prrnoRd iv  bitcha.                                                                       Abouepvryicnioe   sca   enlylb                                lt btn     ol l.
Moose to loft Wate  (onou   f oueicl   no.  re1ar  uab-O~l~aaltri                                            .-tiuly  eeq-t  diet pin  ehastrio  no-toad1 heq ir      n A. nor
bsr of poupis (totl   ro,ot    rrl  wrraeebeaco   toa tfu                                          ltaly"-.d.   Pu                                -.dlql                   .
toe  tcAu     h at frc  prototto  borehlle, sptiog, and eooitory alle) e                      lara  ralotiw   poverty  more leve  is on-thivd of e-.So. Par -pito
courdredae  Ic  wihi  reP.-t-I.aofce   ooa    truo   oe                                fetetd  onltof Slt. Abeotsy Povb t  inton invo.l- Cforot). - 1ob
re. sonable tot.0 eut  capd -th    the MoaOi         t orounbet  of  ieMoshol                  ad1 onrb -dotarret of. puahigh-   Cofhe  adi roac  t-o er-'holt
petosucogna of thaOrr.oy.cntce popolotiota.  Incosne disposal any inoludo~ ~ ~ ~ ~~at          po'.l          b_       ol.~
and  oat-bl   arb  ae-hd            ttysherrh   seo  tic.l  ofitha en   ti                                                       roei   rlsaa   ProjerIior  l.oerro
P...  t.S   -f  thil l.   ti.... ttl.l. di:p.-l   ay i.ld. ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      Sa  198
PPolotto. a Ot Pbveouo    Ppueco    iodividdby rushr o  prctiolag physi-                                                                                 y11
cin  qaifa - ro     ntal.  scool enonrooiy leel
PoroleirrtSrtePeo  - Populetino dividdt by tanhr of practicing
nele act fanol  gra.tooenua    p-rocleloes  end a..ei.aret .ur....



- 35-
Population        19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 740 (1979)                                                                                                  Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                  Annual Growth Rates (X)
current prices)                      Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                       1980          1976   1977   1978   1979       1980 p/         1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17640           10.2    6.5    3.4    4.5        4.0             3.9      5.7      6.2     6.6      6.7
Agriculture                 3253         4.3  -13.2   23.6   -1.7         6.2             3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5      3.5
Industry                   5599          8.8   10.0   -2.0    8.3         0.5             4.0      6.0     7.4      7.4     7.4
Services                   8788         13.3    8.3    4.3    4.2        13.0             4.0      5.2     6.2      6.9     7.0
Consumption                   15767         11.7    2.0    7.4    3.3        5.1             4.0      2.3     4.1      4.8      6.0
Gross investment               3849         20.1   11.0  -23.1   -1.2       -5.8            -5.2    15.7    12.8    10.2        8.0
Exports of GNFS                3273          6.3    9.8    3.8    5.5        4.8             7.6      6.5      8.8     9.6      6.8
Imports of GNFS                5247        23.8   13.5  -16.1   -1.1        -9.2            -0.3    -1.0      4.8      4.5      5.0
Gross national savings         2429         13.9   20.6  -16.6   11.5        ..             -2.2    20.9    10.6    14.1        7.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)         .        152.0  163.7  177.1  189.8    208.8
Exchange rate (USt per DH)        .         .226   .222   .240   .256       .254
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                            Average Annual Increase (W)
(at constant 1969 prices)                                (at constant 1969 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990               1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic  roduct                                                            4.0        4.9        5.7        5.9       6.8
Agriculture -          29.1   19.9   15.1   13.6   12.5  10.7                  3.5       -0.5        3.2        3.5       3.5
Industry b/            23.5   27.6   30.6   29.5   31.6  32.4                  4.7        8.6        5.0       6.6        7.3
Services b/            47.4   52.5   54.3   56.9   55.8  56.9                  4.1        5.5        7.3        5.9       7.2
Consumption               89.2   88.8   87.3   88.7   82.3  79.7                  4.1        4.7        5.8        4.1       6.1
Gross investment           10.3   16.0   24.6   16.7   18.5  18.9                 8.0       15.9       -2.4        9.4        7.3
Exports GNFS              27.4   18.9   14.8   15.4   16.9  17.3                  1.3        2.6        6.3        8.0        7.2
Imports GNFS              26.9   22.5   24.4   20.8   17.8  15.9                  3.5        7.2        2.1        2.7       4.3
Gross national savings   11.0   11.1   19.1   16.1   19.5  21.3                   3.5       13.1        3.1       10.0       8.7
As X of GDP
1960      1970       1975       1980 e/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                 16.5       16.6       23.3      22.3
Current expenditures                             15.6       14.9      20.2       21.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                        0.9        1.7       3.1        0.6
Capital expenditure                               3.8        5.9      12.2       12.1
Foreign financing                                  ..        1.4        3.7       5.5
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                     4.0        6.0        5.9        5.6        6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (X)          1.6        3.1        3.0        2.5       3.8
Energy consumption growth rate (%)    3.8          6.7        4.3        5.9        6.8
ICOR                                    3.09       2.77       3.87      2.88       2.74
Marginal savings rate                   0.10       0.40      -0.002      0.33      0.24
Import elasticityc/                     0.95       1.44       0.28      0.76       0.80
a/  At market prices.
b/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
e/ Estimate.
p/ Preliminary.
EMENA CP II-B



- 36 -
Population    :  19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                     ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USi 740 (1979)                                                                                       Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                  Annual Growth Rates (t)
Indicator           (million US$ at                              (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)                Actual                                    Projected
1980         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979        1980 e/  1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)       2414       -22.8   12.8    8.0    3.5    4.0         6.9       7.6    6.0    9.3   10.4    6.5
Primary products             1823      -25.3   13.1    2.1    3.8    3.5          7.3      3.8    3.9    4.1    4.3    4.3
Phosphate rock            765       -29.9   12.0    7.5   10.4    3.2        -7.5       5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                   1058       -22.5   13.8   -0.9    0.0    3.6        17.1       3.0    3.2    3.4    3.7    3.9
Intermediate & manufactures 591          -8.5   11.0   36.0    2.3    7.0         5.5      17.5   10.7   20.7   21.7    9.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)       4283        21.4    7.8   31.4  -26.4    9.7    -11.5          0.7    4.7    5.5    5.0    5.7
Food                          720        35.5  -24.0   32.9    8.6    1.2        10.7     -5.1   -5.3   -5.1   -5.2    4.9
Petroleum                    1006        12.8    2.9   14.5   10.7   12.2    -12.5         3.8   -4.4    3.8    4.1    3.0
Machinery and equipment       805        51.7   20.4   76.3  -57.9   -3.2    -19.9          1.0   17.2   13.3   10.2   10.6
Others                       1752         5.2   14.8    4.9  -10.7   19.1    -13.8         2.4    4.5    5.4    5.4    3.2
PRICES (1969 - 100)
Export price index                .        256.5  207.8  201.9  211.4  231.7    264.2    291.5  319.8  348.7  380.6  411.3
Import price index                .       205.0  211.7  223.4  236.1  252.4    293.4    326.0  351.4  379.2  408.7  437.9
Terms of trade index              .        125.1   98.2   90.4   89.5   91.8        90.0      89.4   91.0   91.9   93.1   93.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (E)                       Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                               (at constant 1969 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990        1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                          2.0     -0.7        7.5        8.1        6.9
Primary products         89.5    89.7   86.9   75.5   61.3   59.8            ..      -2.2        4.7       4.1        6.0
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.4   13.1   24.5   38.7   40.2             ..       9.0       17.8      16.0        8.1
factures
Imports                                                                         4.0       8.1        0.0        4.5        5.4
Food                     27.3    16.8   24.9   16.8    9.6    6.6            ..      14.0        0.8      -3.8       -1.8
Petroleum                 7.4      5.5   10.7   23.5   24.2   23.4           ..       9.5       10.2        1.8        2.0
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.0   23.9   18.8   28.2   32.3             ..      12.8       -3.0       11.3       8.7
Others                   58.6    53.7   40.5   40.9   38.0   37.7            ..       3.8       -5.4        4.5        5.6
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with             Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)         Developing Countries (X)       Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1960      1970       1975        1960       1970       1975     1960           1970             1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3       73.7      60.8        27.7       25.4       38.8        ..            0.9             0.4
Imports                        76.7      74.9       65.7        23.3       25.1       33.9       ..              ..             0.4
e/ Estimate.
EMENA CP II-B



- 3? -
Population         19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                                           ANVEX I
GNP Per Capita.  US$ 740 (1979)                                                                                                                               Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYHENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USF at Current prices)
Indicator                                                       Actual                                                         Pro3ected
1970     1975       1976      1977      1978       1979      1980 e/   1981    1982    1983   1984   1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                775      2580      2288      2486      2955      3694       4364       5136    5852    6758   7872   8926   16088
Of whichb   Merchandise f.o.b.            488      1530      1245      1283      1488      1938       2413       2851    3314    3951   4759   5477   10336
Imports of goods and services                946      3134      3691      4364      4353      5268       5911       6369    6899    7911   8791   9865   16604
Of which, Merchandise f.o.b.              625      2267      2305      2820      2626      3245       3770       4158    4693    5344   6046   6846   12178
Net current tranfers                          27         8        47        52        50        44        127           -        -        -      -       -        -
Current account balance                     -144      -546    -1355    -1826    -1348    -1530          -1420      -1233   -1047   -1153   -919   -939    -516
Special grants                                         100       435       360       260       420         97        300      250      200    150    100          -
Current account balance after grants    -144          -446      -920    -1466    -1088    -1110         -1323       -933    -797    -953   -769   -839    -516
Private capital                               21        21        38        53        45        37         88          25      28       31      35      39       79
MLT loans (net)                               90       304       336      1338      1109       946       1188       1083      901    1121    882    979         727
Official                                                                                                          716      643      683    554    612       618
Private                                                                                                           367      159      437    329    368       109
Other capital                                 56       104        30        68       -73        73       -111        -70      -42      -30       -       -        -
Monetary movements                           -23        17        16         6         8        53        158       -105      -89    -169   -147   -179    -289
International reserves                       161       437       548       609       772       917        814        972    1061    1229   1376   1556    2681
Of which, Gold                             21        85        82       104       154       360        415        360      360      360    360    360       360
Reserves as months imports                   2.0       1.7       1.8       1.7       2.1       2.1        1.7         1.8     1.8      1.9    1.9    1.9        1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT a/
Gross disbursements                          175       664       725      1787      1182      1405       1567
Concessional loans                                  164      121       634       334       321         750
DAC                                             109        73       107       100        76         97
OPEC                                             42        41       507       189       179        598
IDA                                               1         4         3         -         -           1
Other                                            13         3        17        45        66         69
Non-concessional loans                              500       614      1151       857      1113        817
Official export credits                           3        22        27         2         2         11
IBRD                                   16       110        59        68        72       137         64
Other multilateral                                7         2         7        51         7         13
Private                                25       380       531      1049       732       967        729
Suppliers credits                            127        10       171        10         8         16
Firincial credits and bonds                  253       521       878       722       957        713
External Debt
.Debt outstanding and disbursed            703      1753     2330      4069       5123      6182       7097
Official                                       1121       250      1975      2456      2833       3482
Private                                         632      1080      2094      2667      3349       3615
Undisbursed debt                          239      652       801      1024      2280      2337       2018
Debt service
Total service payments                     58       145       162       264       547       798       1191
Interest                               23        50        66       148       252       411        618
Payments as X exports of G+S              7.5       5.6       7.1      10.7      18.5     21.6        27.3
Average interest rate on new loans (X)          4.4       7.3       7.7       6.8       7.0       8.2        8.1
Average maturity of new loans (years)          18.5      14.7      11.7      13.1      13.2      15.9       13.7
As 7 of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                             38.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                            73.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                             6.9
EMENA CP II-B
a/ From IBRD External Debt Reporting System. There are sizeable discrepancies in some years between the external capital and debt service flows
reported under the IBRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
e/ Estimated.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                         US$ Million
Credit                                                               Amount   (less cancellations)
Number        Year       Borrower                Purpose             Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Eighteen       Loans     Fully disbursed                             411.4
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                         36.0
1017           1974      Maroc-Phosphore         Industry             50.0                    0.3
1018          1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            32.0                   11.0
555          1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                       14.0        11.8
1201           1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            30.0                    6.4
1202           1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                21.0                   12.3
1220-T        1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education              25.0                   19.7
1299           1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Power                  49.0                    1.9
1361          1977       CNCA                   Agriculture           35.0                    0.0*
1383          1977       CIOR                    Industry             45.0                    0.4
1416          1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            41.0                   37.4
1428           1977      BNDE                    DFC                  43.2                   14.9
S-7           1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering             1.5                    1.0
1528          1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                      15.7
1602          1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            65.0                   62.2
1625           1978      Maroc-Phosphore         Industry             50.0                   10.7
1681          1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education             113.0                  112.9
1687           1979      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)              25.0                   15.3
1695          1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                  42.0                   41.9
1704           1979      CNCA                   Agriculture           70.0                   51.6
1724          1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply           49.0                   40.4
1757           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            58.0                   52.5
S-18           1980      BRPM                   Oil Exploration       50.0                   37.7
1830           1980      Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                62.0                   62.0
1848          1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            34.0                   34.0
1943          1981       CIH                     Tourism             100.0                  100.0
1944          1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                      36.0
20061/         1982      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply           87.0                   87.0
20371/         1982      BNDE                    DFC                  70.0                   70.0
20381/         1982      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)              70.0                   70.0
Total                                                          1783.1 2/   50.0      1017.0
of which has been repaid                                      203.0       0.9
Total now outstanding                                          1580.1       49.1
Amount Sold                                 20.1
of which has been repaid                 17.7                   2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                 1577.7       49.1
Total undisbursed                                              1005.2       11.8     1017.0
NOTE
1/ Not yet effective.
2/  A $29.0 million loan for a Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agricultural Development Project
was approved by the Board on January 5, 1982.
*   US $40,783.65 undisbursed.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)              US$ Million
Loan     Equity   Total
1963/1978           BNDE                        Development Bank           -        2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                          Canning Factory          0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement            Cement Factory             -        1.4       1.4
1977/1980           Temara Cement                Cement Factory           4.8       3.5       8.3
1979                Agadir Cement               Cement Factory           12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                SOMIFER                      Copper Mining           13.0       2.3      15.3
Total Gross Commitments                                              31.2      12.6     43.8
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales          14.1       3.4     17.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                                    17.1       9.2     26.3
Total Undisbursed                                                     -         0.4       0.4
1/ Annex II will be updated at grey cover stage.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
C.       PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Ln. No. 1018        Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980,
except for the procurement of sugarcane transport equipment ($0.7 million).
Funds have been virtually fully committed for the costs of additional
infrastructure works foreseen under an amendment to the Loan Agreement made in
July 1980.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and works have been
started in the remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected,
mainly because project implementation proves mDre complex than anticipated.
However, the first results of the completed components are promising. Because
of the initial delay and the complexity in implementation, the original
closing date was extended by three years.
Ln. No. 1201        Doukkala I Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February
27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness; July 20, 1976; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha.,
infrastructure and equipment and a research laboratory on bilharzia.
Irrigation and drainage works have been completed and put in service.
Agricultural development has been satisfactory. The balance of the loan
remaining undisbursed is expected to be cancelled shortly, after the last
disbursement requests have been processed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
Ln. No. 1202        Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of
February 27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976;
Closing Date; December 31, 1981
The project consists of infrastructure works and public facilities
for developing Agadir into a major tourism area. Most infrastructure works
were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of public
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to administrative and project management problems. Project
completion is expected to be delayed by about 18 months, and an extension of
the closing date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1220-T      Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date: May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agriculture, health and tourism. After an initial two-year delay,
there has been improvement in project implementation. Construction of primary
schools, secondary schools, a teacher training college and a rural development
and extension training center is largely completed. Construction is still
delayed for the health and tourism components. A two year extension of the
Closing Date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1299        Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira dam, of a
120-MW power station including a 225-KV substation and of about 200 km of
225-KV transmission line, and the preparation of preliminary designs and bid
documents for the Merija compensating dam and power station. The project
should be fully completed in the near future and disbursements are on
schedule. However, ONE has experienced difficulties in collecting arrears
from other public agencies. The balance of the loan remaining undisbursed is
expected to be cancelled shortly, after the last disbursement requests have
been processed.
Ln. No. 1416        Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco which caused an initial delay of about
two years. However, project implementation has resumed vigorously and the
initial delay may be fully recovered.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 1428        Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of specific industrial enterprises, and of a small-scale industry
pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank financing is included. The
loan is fully committed. An amount of about $2.8 million was cancelled.
About two-thirds of the loan have been disbursed.
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness; August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project. It
would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban
sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed by about
15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
laitnched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date;  March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. While construction is proceeding
satisfactorily on two sites, that of another site is delayed due to technical
difficulty. There has been some delay in the non-physical aspects of the
project due to the lack of experience in Morocco with this kind of project.
Extension of the closing date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production and to
a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commDdities.. These aims
would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension and soil conservation services, training, the provision of credit
and infrastructure. Although somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, due to excellent project management and good interagency
coordination.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. No. 1625        Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storage facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and
storage facilities.  Conmmrcial operations have begun and the project will
probably be completed on schedule. Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: Decenber 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation has been proceeding slowly, and the contract for technical
assistance has not yet been awarded.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US$25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a new Government program to
assist small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The extremely strong demand for this kind of credit has
resulted in virtually full commitment of the loan within the first year of the
project.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in 220 villages located in 17 provinces. Administrative and budgetary
problems initially delayed project start-up. Consultants have now been
recruited and bid documents are under preparation. The Project Unit has been
established, though staffing of the unit has been slow.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project will cover mDst of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA's) mediumr- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through August 1982. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD
and KfW. To alleviate CNCA's short-term liquidity problems due to the recent
drought, its lenders, including the Bank, have increased their disbursement
percentages under their respective loans.
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing
Date;   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to iuprove access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and managenment systems. Administrative problems
have created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections, and the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date; June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and mediumr-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the petroleum
exploration and development efforts of the Bureau de Recherches et
Participation Miniere (BRPM), the national enterprise for oil and mineral
exploitation and development (excluding phosphates). It also provides
technical assistance in prospect evaluation, analysis of results of
exploration, and exploration management. Drilling so far has shown
encouraging results and hiring of the consultants is proceeding slowly.
Administrative problems delayed initial disbursements. The project will be
transferred shortly to the new petroleum development agency, the Office
National de Recherche et d'Exploitation Petroliare.
Ln. No. 1830        Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises Ci) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transportation to improve
transportation planning and to study road maintenance. The pavement
strengthening and maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. The
hiring of consultants for technical assistance is behind schedule due to the
slow preparation of the terms of reference.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date:June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is in its early stages but
is progressing satisfactorily.



- 45 -
ANNEX I I
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project would provide funds over a three year period to the
Credit Immnbilier et H8telier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing
in the tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It
also includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and
training of CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects.
Commitments so far have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944        Second Urban Developmaent Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness; August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project would support the Government's efforts to provide
shelter, basic services and employment to low-income urban families through a
program for slum upgrading, sites and services and provision of serviced land
for small-scale industries, to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and
Kenitra. Assistance is also provided to strengthen the mmnicipal services of
the project cities. Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient
coordination through the provincial Governors' offices.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981. Not yet effective. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project would include the construction of two regional
water supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply
facilities in about 32 small centres scattered throughout Morocco. It would
also provide revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low incore
households, equipment, technical assistance training and studies.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Not yet effective. Closing Date; December 31, 1986.
The project would include a pilot component in the line of credit to
BNDE, to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project would
also focus on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of
project appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion.
Ln. No. 2038        Small Scale Industry II; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Not yet effective. Closing Date.
June 30, 1986.
The project consists of (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 2082        Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development
Project: US$29.0 million. Not yet signed. Closing Date:
June 30, 1988.



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            Seven months (July 1980
through January 1981)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:            Bureau de Recherches et de
Participations Minieres (BRPM)
(c)  Project first identified by the Bank:  October 1980
(d)  Appraisal mission:                        February 1981
(e)  Negotiations:                             August and October 1981
(f)  Planned effectiveness date:               June 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  Approval by the Council of Ministers of the implementing decree
concerning ONAREP's administrative structure (para. 43);
(ii)  Finalization of arrangements for the study comparing shale
retorting and direct combustion (para. 73);
(iii)  Confirmation of the employment of division chiefs for the
Financial, Administrative and Oil Shale Divisions and of
additional staff for ONAREP's Oil Shale Division (paras. 44 and
69);



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(iv)  Agreement on the terms of reference for the technical evaluation
of retorting processes (para. 65);
(v) Submission to the Bank of ONAREP's provisional opening balance
sheet together with qualified auditors' opinions thereon, and of
ONAREP's approved 1982 work program and budget (para. 43).
(vi)  Approval of the regulations for the transfer of BRPM's assets,
liabilities and staff relating to petroleum and oil shale
activities, to ONAREP (para. 43).
(b)  Events of loan suspension;
The Government would have entered into contractual arrangements which
would interfere with the carrying out of the project or restrict in
any way the Government or ONAREP's freedom to apply the conclusions
of the project studies in selecting the most appropriate retorting
process (paras. 57 and 82).
(c) Other conditions;
(i) The Government would keep the Bank fully informed of all on-going
or planned studies and signed contracts regarding shale retorting
in Morocco, coordinate such studies with the Bank-financed project
and discuss the results of both the studies financed by the Bank
and those in parallel projects before undertaking further
investments (para. 57).
(ii)  The Government would not undertake the construction of an oil
shale-fired power plant unless the results of the relevant
feasibility study prepared by ONE had been discussed with the Bank
(paras. 58 and 67);
(iii) The consultants hired to carry out the comparative study of
alternative retorting processes would have adequate access to the
necessary information on the retorting processes to be examined
(paras. 65 and 82).
(iv)  ONAREP's final opening balance sheet would be audited by September
1, 1982 (para. 43), and annual audited accounts would be submitted
regularly to the Bank (para. 78);
(v) ONAREP would have carried out and submitted to the Bank a study on
its operations, structure, procedures and staffing requirements,
by June 1, 1983 (para. 44);



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(vi)  Operation of the test station would not begin until the Bank has
approved the detailed test program and a safety audit has been
carried out (paras. 63-64);
(vii)  ONAREP would maintain at all times sufficient funds to cover its
current liabilities (para. 79).



MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
Time Schedule for Project Implementation
1981                  1982                  1983                  1984                  1985                   1986
_   I,    III   I v   I    II   III   IV    I    Ii   III   IV    I                           "1 III  IV  I  II  III  IV  I  II  IIl  IV
1. Construrction and Operation
of Timihdit Test Station
Procurement of Equipment
Erection of Plant
Start-up
Teat
2. Evalutation of Retorting Processes
Preparation of TOR's
Selection of Consultant and Contract
Negotiation
Supply of Information by Process
Holders-
Updating T3 PrefeasibilitV Studv                                      __
Comparison 
3. Feasibility Study of Commercial
Oil Shale Retorting
a) Mine StudV
Preparation of TOR's
Selection of Consultant and
Contract Negotiation
Geological Audit
Additional Drilling
Mine Planning                                                               _                    -                -    1
Costs
b) Plant and Infrastructure Study
Preparation of TOR'sa
Selection of Consultant and
Contract Negotiation
StudyV                                                                                                                                
4. Comeparision Retorting and Direct
Combustion
____________________
Industrial Project Department
Decmber 1981                                                                                                                                                World Bank - 23527



- 51 -
ANNEX V
MOROCCO
OIL SHALE ENGINEERING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year                    Quarter       Quarterly      Cumulative
FY1982                                  I             -
II             --
III--
IV            0.4             0.4
FY1983                                  I            1.3              1.7
II            1.8             3.5
III            1.8             5.3
LV            2.1             7.4
FY1984                                  I            2.1              9.5
II            2.1            11.6
III            2.0            13.6
IV            2.0            15.6
FY1985                                  I            0.7             16.3
II            0.6            16.9
III            0.6            17.5
IV            0.6            18.1
FY1986                                  I            0.6             18.7
II            0.6            19.3
III            0.4            19.7
IV            0.2            19.9
FY1987                                  I            0.1             20.0
Industrial Projects Department
Decenber 1981



