OFCIAN      LOAN NUMBER 2114-MOR
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Oil Shale Engineering Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OFFICE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES ET D'EXPLOITATIONS PETROLIERES
Dated                            , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2114-MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   A "       tK               ,1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and OFFICE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES ET D'EXPLOITA-
TIONS PETROLIERES (hereinafter called the Borrower), an etablis-
sement public a caractZre industriel et commercial established
and operating under the laws of the Kingdom of Morocco (herein-
after called the Guarantor or Morocco).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Borrower have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement (hereinafter called the Guarantee
Agreement) of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the
Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to provide the Borrower
with funds and other support for Parts A through D of the Project;
and
(C) any financing so provided by the Bank would be refunded,
if the Bank shall so request, out of the proceeds of any loan by
the Bank which may later be granted to the Borrower for the
development and exploitation of oil shale resources covered by the
Project;
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make a loan to the Borrower on the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ONAREP Legislation" means collectively the Dahir
No. 1-81-345 of November 10, 1981, and any d6cret or arr8t6
or other mesure r6glementaire issued pursuant to, or in con-
nection with, such Dahir.
(b) "Riglement Minier" means collectively the Dahir of
April 16, 1951, the DScret No. 2.57.1647 of December 17, 1957,
the Arretg viziriel of April 21, 1951, and the Instruction
minist6rielle of February 25, 1960.
(c) "Code des Hydrocarbures" means collectively the Dahir of
April 16, 1951, the ArritS viziriel of April 16, 1951, the Dahir
No. 1-58-227 of July 21, 1958, and the Dfcrets d'application
No. 2-58-879, 2-58-876 and 2-58-878, all of July 23, 1978.
(d) "Specific Projects Debt" means any loan(s) granted by
the Bank to the Borrower or any other loan(s) which the Borrower
might contract for the purposes of a project or projects financed
by the Bank, other than advances or contributions made by the
Guarantor.
(e) "subsidiary" means any corporation, a majority of whose
outstanding voting stock shall be owned, or which shall be effec-
tively controlled, by the Borrower or by one or more subsidiaries
of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more of its sub-
sidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set fotth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000).


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1986,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum oa the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Parts A through D
of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A
through D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practice-.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall not undertake the initial operation
of the test station included in Part A of the Project until: (i) a
detailed test program shall have been submitted by the Borrower to
the Bank for its review and approval, and such approval shall have
been notified by the Bank to the Borrower; and (ii) a safety audit
of the test station shall have been carried out, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower (i) shall make available to the Guarantor,
out of the proceeds of the Loan, an amount equivalent to two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or such other amount or
amounts as may be allocated from time to time to Category (3) (b)
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for Part E of the Project, under arrangements acceptable
to the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank, and (ii) shall take
all action, within its powers, as shall be necessary or useful on
its part to assist the Guarantor in carrying out Part E of the
Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower: (i) in
carrying out Parts A and D of the Project, the Borrower shall
continue to employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank; (ii) in carrying out Parts B and C (a) of the
Project, the Borrower shall, by August 1, 1982 (or such other date
as the Bank may agree), employ .onsultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank; and (iii) in carrying out Part C (b) of the
Project, the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1984 (or such other date
as the Bank may agree), employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. The employment of all such consultants shall
be mare in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its review
and (approval: (i) promptly after the date hereof, the terms of)
reference for the studies included in Part B of the Project; and
(ii) by March 31, 1984 (or such other date as the Bank may agree),
the terms of reference for the study included in Part C (b) of the
Project.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) make available to the consul-
tants employed or to be employed pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof
all information relevant to Parts A through D of the Project; and


﻿- 5 -
(ii) ensure that they shall be provided, for the duration of their
employment, with suitable facilities, adequate and qualified
counterpart personnel and such other appropriate resources as may
be necessary for the timely and efficient performance of their
services under such Parts of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indenity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services, required for Parts A through D
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, to be used exclusively for such Parts of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, all the documents prepared by
the consultants employed or to be employed pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, including the plans, designs, speci-
fications, reports and drafts thereof, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules and estimates of costs for Parts A
through D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such numbers and detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of
Parts A through D of the Project (including the cost and the
benefits to be derived from said Parts of the Project), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in said Parts of the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Part A of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Parts A through D of
the Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from said Parts of the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services for Parts A through D of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall, with the assistance of the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement,
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the Project and the initial
operation of Part A thereof, the cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from the Project, the performance by the Guaran-
tor, the Bank and the Borrower of their respective obligations
under the Guarantee and Loan Agreements (including the Guarator's
obligations under Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement) and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction (and operation) of the test station included in Part A
of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
such Part of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all action, within its
powers, as shall be necessary or useful on its part to assist the
Guarantor in fulfilling its obligations under Section 4.03 (a) of
the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times conduct
its operations under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by qualified and experienced personnel in
adequate numbers, within the framework of an appropriate organi-
zational structure and according to appropriate procedures.


﻿- 7-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) (A) establish and, thereafter, maintain at all
times an administrative division and a finan-
cial and accounting division;
(B) employ at all times senior personnel to head
both divisions, such senior personnel to be
assisted at all times by such middle level
personnel and clerical staff as shall be
necessary to enable such divisions to effi-
ciently discharge their responsibilities;
and
(ii) (A) establish and, thereafter, maintain at all
times an oil shale division comprising a
geology and mining exploration department, a
mining department, a pilot plant department,
a research and development department and a
planning department; and
(B) employ at all times: (1) senior personnel
to head such division and each of such depart-
ments; and (2) a contract management spe-
cialist to assist the head of such division in
the management of contracts related to oil
shale.
(c) (i) The Borrower shall carry out and, by June 1,
1983 (or such other date as the Bank may agree),
submit to the Bank for its review and comments a
study on (1) the measures required to improve the
conduct of the Borrower's operations, its organi-
zational structure and the procedures governing its
activities and (2) its additional staffing require-
ments.
(ii) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
such study, the Borrower shall, by September 1,
1982 (or such other date as the Bank may agree),
employ management consultants whose qualifications,
exper.ience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; the employment
of such consultants shall be made in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of


﻿-8-
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the
Bank in August 1981.
(iii) Upon receipt of the Bank's comments on said study,
the Borrower shall promptly take all appropriate
steps to implement the recommendations emanating
from such study, taking into account the Bank's
comments.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) at all times
manage its affairs and maintain its financial position in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering and financial practices and
with due regard to health, ecological and environmental factors;
and (ii) in particular, adequately maintain all the equipment and
assets relevant to, or necessary for, the carrying out of the
Project and for the operation of the facilities provided there-
under and shall, promptly as required, make all necessary renewals
and repairs thereof.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all licenses, consents or other rights as may
be necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower: (i) shall obtain title to all goods, financed
in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan, free and
clear of all encumbrances; and (ii) shall not sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property and assets
except in the ordinary course of business.
Section 4.04. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary or other entity, the Borrower shall cause such subsi-
diary or entity to observe and perform the obligations of the
Borrower hereunder as though such obligations were binding upon
such subsidiary or entity.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1982 (or such other
date as the Bank may agree), establish and, thereafter, maintain
separate records and accounts for Parts A through D of the Project
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall, promptly after the date hereof,
prepare and submit to the Bank: (i) a provisional opening balance
sheet, together with an audit report pertaining thereto, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii)
the 1982 budget and the 1982 program related to its technical and
financial operations (referred to in Article 4 of the draft Dgcret
providing for the administrative structure of ONAREP and furnished
to the Bank) approved by the Guarantor.
(d) The Borrower shall prepare and, by September 1, 1982 (or
such other date as the Bank may otherwise agree), submit to the
Bank, its opening balance sheet, together with an audit report
pertaining thereto, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, prepared by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have all its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year (A) certi-
fied copies of those financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the
Bank or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property, or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all action required on its part to obtain in a
timely fashion such funds as the Guarantor has undertaken to
provide or cause to be provided under the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall not repay in advance of maturity any
part of its indebtedness other than its Specific Projects Debt.
(b) If the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity
any part of its Specific Projects Debt other than the Loan, the
Borrower shall simultaneously prepay in the same proportion an
amount of the Loan then outstanding, and all the provisions of the
General Conditions relating to repayment in advance of maturity
shall be applicable to any repayment by the Borrower to the Bank
pursuant to this Section.
Section 5.06. In the event of liquidation, termination,
dissolution or winding up of the Borrower, the principal and
other amounts payable on the Specific Projects Debt of the Bor-
rower shall first be paid before any payment is made on account of
the funds provided to the Borrower by the Guarantor.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.07. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, at all times, maintain sufficient funds to meet
all its current liabilities as and when they become due and
payable.
For the purposes of this Section, the term "current liabili-
ties" means accounts payable within 12 months, customer advances,
income taxes, dividends, bonuses, and all liabilities (including
debt) which could become due and payable or could, under circum-
stances then existing, be called for payment pursuant to their
terms within 12 months.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The ONAREP Legislation or the Code des Hydrocarbures or
the Raglement Minier or any provision thereof, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower or its ability to properly carry out
Parts A through D of the Project or any of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement or to carry on its operations.
(b) Prior to the submission to the Bank of the report
referred to in Section 3.05 (c) hereof, any action shall have been
taken or any arrangement or contract shall have been concluded
which (1) interferes with the carrying out of the Project or
(2) directly or indirectly restricts or in any way impedes the
ability of the Borrower or the Guarantor to apply the conclusions
of the Project studies in selecting the most appropriate technical
process for the development or the exploitation of oil shale
resources through retorting in Morocco.
(c) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of Parts A through D of the Project.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
of Section 6.01 shall occur.
(b) The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Guarantor and the Borrower shall have made the
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as
provided therein;
(b) the Borrower shall have established the divisions and
departments and employed the senior personnel referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as provided therein;
(c) the Bank shall have given its approval of the terms of
reference for the studies included in Part B of the Project,
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) (i) hereof;
(d) the Borrower shall have submitted to the Bank the
documents referred to in Section 5.01 (c) here-f, as provided in
such Section; and
(e) all the mesures r6glementaires referred to in Article
3 of Dahir No. 1-81-345, dated November 10, 1981, shall have been
issued, effecting in particular the transfer of all assets and
liabilities pertaining to the hydrocarbon and oil shale sector
from Bureau de Recherches et Participations Minieres (herein-
after called BRPM) to the Borrower and the Dfcret providing for
the administrative structure of ONAREP has been issued (sub-
stantially as furnished in draft to the Bank).


﻿- 13 -
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that all the mesures rfgle-
mentaires referred to in Section 7.01 (e) hereof shall have been
duly issued under the laws of Morocco, effecting in particular the
transfer of all the assets and liabilities pertaining to the
hydrocarbon and oil shale sector from BRPM to the Borrower and the
Dfcret providing for the administrative structure of ONAREP
has been duly issued (substantially as furnished in draft to the
Bank) under the laws of Morocco.
Section 7.03. The date :TA             , is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
ONAREP
4, Avenue de France
Rabat Agdal
Morocco
Telex:
BURPET 317 15 M


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Rabat,
Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
OFFICE NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES
ET D'EXPLOITATIONS PETROLIERES
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment for                3,200,000        100% of foreign
Part A of the                                 expenditures
Project
(2) Works related to             1,400,000        100%
the erection of
mechanical
equipment for
Part A of the
Project
(3) Consultants' services:
(a) for Parts A             9,000,000    )
through D of                        )    100% of for-
the Project                         )   eign expendi-
)    tures and
)    85% of local
(b) for Part E of             200,000    )   expenditures
the Project                         )
(4) Unallocated                  6,200,000
TOTAL       20,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $2,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1981.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
,xpenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 17 -
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18'-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to assist the Guarantor
and the Borrower in exploring the viability of the development and
exploitation of oil shale resources in Morocco, and in selecting a
technical process adequate therefor.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Test Station
Construction at Timhadit, and initial operation for 12
months, of a test station consisting of two 80-ton retorts
with related equipment, instruments, laboratory and a small
open pit mine to be utilized in carrying out the test program
(which will include the testing of the process known as T3) to be
submitted by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
(i) of this Agreement.
Part B:   Evaluation Study of Retorting Processes
Carrying out of a comparative technical evaluation study
of retorting processes to determine the main technical charac-
teristics and requirements of commercial operations for producing
oil from shale in Morocco; and, to that end, provision of about
100 man-months of consultants' services.
Part C:   Mine and Retorting Plant and Infrastructure
Feasibility Studies
(a) Carrying out of a mine feasibility study to deter-
mine, inter alia, the likely cost of shale to be deliv-
ered by the proposed mine; and, to that end, provision
of about 170 man-months of consultants' services.
(b) On the basis of the studies referred to in Parts B and C
(a) of the Project, carrying out of a retorting plant
and infrastructure feasibility study to define, in a
comprehensive fashion, the parameters for a commercial
plant for the production of oil from shale in the
Timhadit area; and, to that end, provision of about
140 man-months of consultants' services.


﻿.19
Part D:   Technical Assistance
Furnishing of technical assistance to the Borrower in the
field of oil shale development, for the purpose of, inter alia,
(1) carrying out the test program to be submitted by the Borrower
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement and
(2) interpreting the results thereof; and, to that end, provision
of about 65 man-months of consultants' services.
Part E:   Retorting and Direct Combustion of Shale Study
Carrying out of a study to compare retorting of the Timhadit
area's shale for oil extraction with direct combustion of such
shale in power plants in order to determine the impact of each of
these two methods of shale exploitation on the reduction of oil
imports by the Guarantor and the comparative economic cost asso-
ciated with such reduction of : 'l imports; and, to that end,
provision of about 15 man-months of consultants' services.
T  P                           *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (exressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1986
through   December 15, 1998                 770,000
On June 15, 1999                                 750,OOO
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                  10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  11.60%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, works for the erection
of mechanical equipment included in Part A of the Project and
equipment for such Part of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender dociments relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   The works for the erection of mechanical equipment included
Part A of the Project shall be procured under a single responsi-
bility contract.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for the procurement of equipment for Part A of
the Project, whose inuividual cost is estimated at the equivalent
of less than $300,000 but more than $10,000, may be awarded
through limited international tendering after obtaining quotations
from at least five suppliers in at least three different countries
which shall be member countries of the Bank or Switzerland*; such
* For the purposes of this paragraph, suppliers in Taiwan
are eligible to compete in providing the equipment to be
procured.


﻿- 23 -
limited international tendering shall be carried out in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
Guidelines except that no notification or advertisement of the
invitation to bid will be required and no margin of domestic or
regional preferences for manufacturers will be applicable.
2.   Contracts for the procurement of equipment for Part A of the
Project, whose individual cost is estimated at the equivalent of
$10,000, or less may be awarded after obtaining quotations from
a least three suppliers.
C.   Review of Invitations to Bid and of Proposed Awards and Final
Contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission ts the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-24 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, or price
quotations, as the case may be, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with ,the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of tht Bank thereunto
this iT       day of   L   , 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


