Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4003-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME0T
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$111 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
March 28, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -      Won (W)
US$1                -      W 800
(as of December 1, 1984)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYbLM
ADB        -    Asian Development Bank
30K        -    Dank of Korea
CNB        -    Citizens National Bank
DFC        -    Development Finance Company
DMB        -    Deposit Money Bank
ERR        -    Economic Rate of Return
Exim Bank  -    Export/Import Bank of Korea
FERR       -    Financial Rate of Return
IFD        -    Industrial Finance Debenture
KAIST      -    Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KBI        -    Korea Banking Institute
KDB        -    Korea Development Bank
KLB        -    Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
KrAC       -    Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC       -    Korea Technology Development Corporation
HOF        -    Ministry of Finance
NIF        -    National Investment Fund
SMI        -    Small and Medium Industry
SMIB       -    Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC      -    Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
.
Borrower:                 Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:            Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
(SMIPC),  The Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB),
and The Citizens National Bank (CNB).
Amount:                   US$111.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                    The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and would have a term of
15 years including 3 years of grace. US$1 million
would be allocated to SMIPC and would have a fixed
amortization schedule. US$110 million would be allo-
cated to SMIB and CNB and would have two separate
adjustable composite amortization scheduLes reflecting
the aggregate subloans made by SMIB and CNB
respectiveLy.
Relending Terms:   -   The Republic of Korea would relend the loan proceeds
earmarked for the credit component to SMIB and CNB on
the same terms as the Bank loan. The credit component
would be allocated to SMIB and CNB with respective
amounts of $70 million equivalent and $40 million
equivalent. SMIB and CNB would onlend the funds to
their subborrowers at the Bank standard variable
interest rate plus 2% for periods of up to 13 years
including reasonable grace periods. The subborrowers
would bear the foreign exchange risk as well as the
risk of interest rate fluctuations on the Bank loan.
The funds for the technical assistance and training
component would be relent to SMIPC on the same terms
as the Bank loan and SMIPC would assume the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description       The project would offer a package of credit ($110 mil-
lion), technical assistance and training ($1 million)
tailored to the needs of the Korean small and medium
industries. The technical assistance and training
component would enable SMIPC to expand its activities
of assisting private enterprises to all SMI subsec-
tors. These activities include upgrading skills and
improving the productivity of SMIs in using existing
and new technology at the plant level. This component
of the project would also support overseas training of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dir.closed without World Bank authorization.



selected SMIPC and SMI staff. The credit component of
the proposed loan would help cover the foreign
exchange requirements of subprojects financed by SMIB
and CNB from mid-1985 to mid-1987 and would support
the continued institutional development of SMIB and
CNB. The project would also promote the development
of improved subcontracting policies, which is import-
ant to SMI development in Korea where large companies
have the potential to play a major role in assisting
smaller firms.
The project is expected to generate approximately 550
new SMI subprojects, creating an estimated 6,000 new
jobs. Project benefits are expected to be comparable
to those of previous Bank loans to SMIB and CNB where
financial and economic rates of return averaged 22Z
and 37% respectively. There are no major risks
associated with the project. Steps are being taken to
ensure that the loan disburses according to schedule.
Possible financial risks pertaining to the credit com-
ponent and the possible operational risks pertaining
to the technical assistance component have been
substantially mitigated by actions to be supported
under the proposed project.
Estimated Cost:  (Including taxes and duties)    Local        Foreign      Total
===== US$ million----
Credit Component
SMIB Project                                     46.7         70.0       116.7
CNB Projects                                     24.5         40.0        64.5
Subtotal                                         71.2        110.0       181.2
Technical Assistance                                 -           0.8         0.8
Total Base Cost                                  71.2        110.8       182.0
Price Contingencies for Technical
Assistance Component                                -          0.2         0.2
Total Financing Required                      71.2        111.0       182.2
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                                         -          111.0       111.0
SubLoan Borrowers                                71.2           -         71.2
Total                                         71.2        111.0       182.2



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:            Bank FY           1986    1987    1988    1989
------US$ million----
Annual                                                33.3    57.0    13.2       7.5
Cumulative                                            33.3    90.3   103.5   111.0
£           Rate of Return:  NA
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5378-KO, dated March 22, 1985



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $111.0 million, to help
finance a Small and Medium Industry Project.  The loan would have a term of
15 years, including three years of grace at the standard variable interest
rate. The Government would relend $1 million equivalent of the loan proceeds
to the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC), and $110
million equivalent to the Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB) and the
Citizens National Bank (CNB), on the same terms as the Bank loan. SMIB and
CNB would onlend the funds to their subborrowers at the Bank standard variable
interest rate plus 2% for periods of up to 13 years including reasonable grace
periods
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea's Development in a 1lobal
Context" was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated June 21, 1984. The
following summary is based on this Report. The Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
3.        Past Performance.  Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of
payments position financed almost entirely through foreign grants. But the
ability to sustain a growth rate of 8% p.a. from 1960 onwards raised Korea's
per capita income from $180 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current
prices), with more than 80% of the population above the poverty line, and
enabled her to join the ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this
period, the share of the manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 292
while the share of agriculture fell from 39% to 17%. Merchandise exports,
principally manufactured goods, accounted for almost 41% of GNP as against a
mere 4% two decades earLier and the balance of payments position had been
considerably strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
1970s.



4
-2-
5.        Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-84.  Foreign
borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export diversification
resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the country to negotiate
the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter, to grow by 10X p.a.
until 1978. However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
the economy generated serious inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an
average annual rate of 18X between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in
productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index was increasing at over 18X
p.a., compared to a rate of 10Z in 1977. In addition, the large volume of
subsidized credit which was made available to the heavy and chemical
industries by- the financial system under the Government's direction, brought
about an excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand
while the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level,
dampened export growth in the latter part of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April L979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price adjust-
ment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in
1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to nearly
6% of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Bee, the chief
architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was assassina-
ted. This was followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and
social unrest in twenty years, with the situation returning to normal only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was installed in
September 1980. On top of these developments, unfavorable weather reduced
agricultural output by about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GUP, and a 20Z decline
in investment led to a worsening of deflationary pressures that outweighs the
10% growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemploy-
ment increased to 5.2Z from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw
materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 30% in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volumes to increase by 10i in 1980 and a further 17% in 1981.
This sizeable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.4% of GNP) to $4.6 billion (7.4%
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3% cut in real wages following on the heels of
a 5% drop in the previous year, together with some levelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable develop-
ments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflation declining to 7.3% and
the payments deficit to 3.9% of GNP, largely becaube of movements in the terms
of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and rather more
conservative fiscal and monetary policies.
8.        1983 and 1984 saw a continuation of the improving trend brought
about by the stabilization and adjustment program begun in 1979/80. Helped by



-3-
the recovery of export demand in the electronics, machinery and transport
sectors, the current account deficit shrank further to $1.6 billion in 1983
and $1.4 billion in 1984. With money supply growth restrained to a conser-
vative 12Z-15X and with wages running behind productivity inflation continued
to slide, being 3.4Z in 1983 and 2.8Z in 1984. Real GNP surged by 9.5Z in
1983 and 7.7Z in 1984. In short, Korea not only jumped back on to a high
growth trajectory but managed to do so while keeping its current account
deficit low and its prices stable.
9.        Medium-Term Prospects.  As was the case during the 1970s, Korea's
rate of growth during the 1980s will be determined largely by the performance
of exports on the one hand and savings on the other. The revised version of.
the Fifth Plan aims for a growth rate target of 7.5Z which is to be achieved
via an export growth rate of 10Z and a national savings rate of 29Z. All this
is to be accomplished in an environment of stable prices and equilibrium in
the balance of payments. The proposed targets are ambitious and the self-
imposed constraints are tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic management will
be required over the next few years.
10.       Export performance over che last eighteen months has been very
encouraging. Merchandise exports grew by 12Z during 1983 and 13% in 1984.
However, this performance has been tied largely to the U.S. economic recovery
and the continued strength of the U.S. dollar. Exports to the U.S. grew by
32.1% in 1983 while exports to the European countries rose only 6.9% and to
Japan only 0.5%. Therefore, if the U.S. recovery falters, or if protectionist
sentiment increases, it is likely that Korea's exports will grow more slowly
and the pace of GNP growth slacken. Korea is aiming to soften the impact of
such eventualities by investing in domestic R&D and in upgrading the skills of
its labor force so as to be able to diversify its export base. It is also
diversifying its export markets.
11.       National savings are being promoted partly through a process of
financial liberalization which raised real rates of interest for depositors of
up to 5% in 1983, partly through budget surpluses arising from restrained
government expenditure and partly through measures to increase efficiency in
public sector activities. The savings rate stood at 24.4% in 1983, up from a
recent low of 21.9% in 1980. However, a savings rate of 29% and a level of
fixed investment of about 31% will be needed if growth is to be maintained at
7.5% without pressure on the balance of payments. On the basis of past
aggregate savings performance, it is likely that the Koreans will attain their
savings target. However, the process may be more difficult in the future than
it has been in the past. There has been a marked upward shift in the demand
for consumer durables in recent years.   While the burden of increasing
savings will largely be met by private savings as a result of rising income
and profit levels, Government is also taking action to raise further the
contribution of the public sector to savings.
12.       ExternaL Resource Balance.  While total debt is high ($40.4 billion
in 1983, 54% of GNP), the debt service ratio, including interest on short-term
debt,_ remains a manageable 20%. The share of short-term maturities in total
debt is, however, high (at 35%), and is a cause for concern. This aspect of
its debt and the continuing uncertainty in international financial markets,



-4-
which has led to high and volatile interest rates, has persuaded the Koreans
to hold their new foreign borrowing at about $6 billion per annum through 1986
and to seek balance of payments current account equilibrium by then. This
implies a level of net external borrowing of $2.5-$3 billion per year through
1986. Our assessment is that this level of borrowing is reasonable, and that
while a significant proportion of official assistance should be continued,
Korea is likely to move increasingly towards reliance on private flows to meet
external capital requirements. This assessment was endorsed by the Consulta-
tive Group for Korea which met on July 16, 1984 in Seoul. At that meeting,
the Consultative Group, recognizing the rapidly evolving character of Korea's
economy and the trends in external assistance, concluded that its role as a
forum for aid coordination and enhanced mobilization of external capital is
now being fulfilled by Government. Accordingly, it was agreed that the Group
should be formally dissolved. Nevertheless, the Government explicitly
indicated its need and its intention to continue with a substantial program of
borrowing from the Bank and its wish to cbntinue with an active economic
dialogue that would provide a vehicle for continued advice on matters of
economic policy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       As of September 30, 1984, Korea had received 73 Bank loans (includ-
ing one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $5,170.88 miLlion in
loans and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and
the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that
date, $1,261.23 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
Bank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of September 30, 1984. Pro-
gress on project implementation is generally satisfactory. Although implemen-
tation delays had occurred in several projects - mainly irrigation, highways
and population - due primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary contribu-
tions, they have been addressed and resolved. The Government has taken
measures to increase local funding of Bank-financed projects. Since the
Government's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and plans
for counterpart contributions will remain an integral part of country
implementation reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless,
despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among
major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
14.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete proj-
ects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making loans
which are aimed at addressing more broadly based policy and institutional
issues. This gradual change in the Bank's lending approach, made possible by
the relatively sopbisticated Korean institutions, is proceeding well. The
Bank has also made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which complement
this approach by concentrating on issues that have macro and nulti-sectoral
impact.



-5-
15.       Bank lending for the industriaL sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far, trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through two SALs. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance.
For exampLe, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
supports the Government's ongoing program of financial sector reform. The
Bank's technology enhancement objectives are being pursued through three proj-
ects, two approved in 1982 for the Korea Technology Development Corporation
(KTDC) which finances research, deveLopment and engineering and for the
machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and technical
assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium machinery firms, and
a third approved in October 1984 for a second KTDC project. Future lending
planned for industry in Korea would include continued support for the finan-
cial sector reform and for the small and medium-industry subsector which is
expected to play an important role in the growth of the skill-intensive indus-
tries which are crucial to the next stage of development of Korean industry.
16.       Future Bank lending for agriculture is expected to be limited,
reflecting the completion of the Government's program of major infrastructure
works. A planned fourth credit loan would address some of the institutional
issues related to the provision of agricultural credit which have been defined
in a sector survey. This would complement public finance issues related to
farm subsidies and the restructuring of agro-industries that were included in
the second SAL.
17.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
loan approved in March 1984 as well as future operations would address sec-
toral and subsectoral issues such as improving the integration of investment
planning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related to regulation
and road user charges. Those transport issues which involve macroeconomic
policies affecting other sectors of the econo.ny, such as relative fuel prices,
are being handled within the context or the second SAL.
18.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skiLled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. A second sector loan, approved in May 1984, supports measures designed
to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level science and
technology education.
19.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector involves support for
three regional development projects, two low-income housing projects and two
water supply projects. The Bank is assisting Korea to increase the availabil-
ity of basic services such as housing, water supply under an urban transport
sector project which is under preparation project, and transportation in the
cities. New projects in urban transport, local government finance and water
supply are also under preparation. Continuation of the policy improvement and



-6-
institution-building efforts initiated under ongoing projects are planned by
moving gradually to a sector approach.
PART III. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Industrial Sector
20.       Rapid industrialization has been the cornerstone of Korea's long-
term economic growth.  With active government support for the sector, the
share of mining and manufacturing in GNP rose Erom 14Z in 1961 to 29.4% in
1983, while the share in employment rose from 8.7z (1963) to 23.3%. Through-
oux this period, the economic policies of Government were tailored to the
needs of the industrial sector and in particular exporters of manufactured
goods. Key policies included: (a) export incentives; (b) an extensive system
of guided and relatively low cost credit; (c) a foreign exchange regime
designed to strengthen export competitiveness; (d) and a concentration of
Government spending on basic infrastructure and technical education and
training.
21.       While the drive to industrialization has met with great success,
weaknesses have become apparent in the late 1970s. Government support for
investment in the heavy machinery and chemical industries has led to a build-
up of external indebtedness, increasing energy intensity in production,
excessive production capacity, and excessive reliance on export markets for
which Korea was barely competitive. This combination was shown to be
extremely vulnerable by the second oil shock and the subsequent world-wide
recession. From this experience emerged a realization that the growing size
and complexity of the industrial sector precluded a continuation of the
centrally-directed approach of the past, and that a move to indirect incen-
tives and controls plus a greater reliance on market mechanisms would be more
appropriate for the future.
22.       A number of other weaknesses also emerged during the late 1970s.
Directed credit to only selected larger companies forced less fortunate
enterprises to use higher cost credit of the informal sector. A wide technol-
ogy gap also emerged between small and large companies as a result of the
Government's emphasis on large scale operations. Under the Fifth Five-Year
Plan (1982-86), the Government is seeking to overcome these shortcomings
through: (a) reducing Government's role in credit allocation by reforming and
liberalizing the financial system; (b) adopting a more open trade policy to
stimulate competition and market mechanisms; and (c) stressing technical
training, education and indigenous research and development capabilities.
Results thus far have been encouraging and both manufacturing value added and
manufactured exports are expected to grow by 10X per annum in the coming
years.
The Financial Sector
23.       Korea's financial system consists of a highly regulated formal
sector made up of banks, nonbank financial institutions (NBFIs) forming a
second tier market, plus an unregulated curb market. Credit demands not met
by the formal sector, with its regulated interest rates, are satisfied at a



-7-
higher price by the curb market. The formal financial sector has historically
had highly segmented institutions specializing in pareicular fields demarcated
by an extensive regulatory framework which has had the effect of reducing
competition among institutions.
24.       Banking System Inst;itutions.  The formal financial sector is domi-
.4         nated by the banking system which is composed of seven nationwide commercial
banks, ten local banks, seven specialized banks and 42 domestic branches of
foreign banks. In 1983, the banking system institutions accounted for nearly
t two-thirds of the total domestic liabilities. Nonbank financial institutions
tNBFIs) include: (a) savings institutions; (b) investment companies;
(c) development institutions; and (d) life insurance companies.
25.       Second Tier Market.  Bonds and commercial paper have increased from
virtually nothing at end-1975 to about W 6 trillion ($7.5 bilLion) at end-
1983. High yields on corporate bonds, which averaged about 5% above the
interest rate on time deposits, made this dramatic growth possible.
26.       Informal Financial Sector.  The curb market supplies credit to bor-
rowers who are not served by the formal sector, particularly to smaller firms
in need of working capital. RecenL estimates of this market's size range from
W 1 to 1.5 trillion, approximately 6% of totaL domestic credit to the private
sector.
27.       Regulatory Framework.  The banking system has been subject to
considerable supervision and control by the Ministry of Finance (HOF) and the
Bank of Korea (BOK). BOK has indirectly supported commercial banks by main-
taining a high spread between the lending rates of commercial banks and BOK's
rediscount rate. At end-1984, commercial bank lending rates ranged from 1OZ
to 11.5Z, while the rediscount rate for preferred sectors was 5%. (The ceil-
ing on time deposit rates was 10.5%.) The domestic inflation rate for 1984 is
estimated to be 3% and projected to be 3-6% in 1985-88. The Government has in
the past also directed loans to certain sectors, or even specific firms,
through a number of instruments, including a portfolio requirement, creation
of special funds, rediscount policy and direct instructions.
28.       Financial Sector Reform.  In 1982, the Government divested itself of
ownership of nationwide commercial banks, and reduced its control over opera-
tional matters. In November 1984, the allowed interest rate range on loans
was widened to 1.5% (10% to 11.5%) to allow a risk assessment factor. In the
future, the Government plans to gradually reduce the scope of directed lending
schemes. Other measures are expected to include: deregulation of the activi-
ties of various classes of financial institutions to encourage greater compe-
tition, a gradual reduction in interest rate controls, efforts to strengthen
the domestic banking system, increased internationalization of the stock
market and fiscal incentives to portfolio investors. These measures, which
constitute the basis of the Bank's dialogue with the Government on financial
sector issues will be described in greater detail in the loan documents for
the second Industrial Finance Loan which is expected to be presented to the
Executive Directors later this year.



The Small and Medium Industry Sector
29.       A Small and Medium Industry (SMI) enterprise is defined in a number
of laws and Government decrees in terms of both employment size (generally
less than 500 employees) and assets (generally less than W 4 billion). In
1982, there were over 36,000 enterprises in the SMI sector which made up 98S
of total establishments. The SMI sector has played a prominent role in
Korea's industrialization. Its role still remains substantial but has
declined in relation to large scale enterprise. In 1963, SMIs employed 62X of
manufacturing workers and produced 502 of manufacturing value added as
contrasted to 1982 where SMIs had 54Z of employment and produced Laly 361 of
value added. Two factors account for the decline: first, many successful
SMIs have grown into large scale firms taking advantage of economies of scale;
and second, Government policies in the 1970's favored larger firms thereby
hampering SMI access to credit, financial incentives and other needed
resources. With ready access to below market financing and other preferential
treatment, large enterprises were also encouraged to produce in-house made
parts and components which otherwise could have been subcontracted out to
SMIs. Korean SMIs faced with rising wage rates also face a considerable
challenge to maintain an advantage over their overseas competitors in
traditional export products (such as textiles and clothing). In order to
address these problems, the Government has in the last several years taken a
number of measures to assist SMIs to upgrade technology, improve efficiency,
and seek out new products and markets.
30.       Financing of SMI's. Two specialized banks, The Small and Medium
Industry Bank (SKIB) and the Citizens National Bank (CNB), both majority owned
by the Government, provide most of the long-term lending to SMIs. Approxi-
mately half of the SMI long-term capital requirements are financed through
SMIB and CNB with the balance being sourced from internal cash generation or
from private sources. In mid-year 1984, almost 75Z of the SKI loans outstand-
ing were held by comnercial banks. However, commercial banks generally pro-
vide only short-term SMI financing. Long-term financing at present carries an
average interest rate of 11% for local currency and around 12% for most loans
denominated in foreign currency. A notable exception is the Small and Medium
Industry Promotion Fund (SMIPF) from which loans are channeled mainly through
SKIB. SKIPF loans are: denominated in won; have interest rates of 9Z; can be
utilized for purchasing imported equipment; and finance mainly the metal
working sector. A major consideration in the establishment of the SKIPF was
the Government's desire to address the imbalance of access to long-term credit
which had favored large-scale enterprises during the 1970s. By 1984, the
SMIPF accounted for 101 of the total SMI capital investment financing. In
addition, the Government has created the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund (KCGF)
for SMIs and required that commercial banks earmark a certain portion of their
lending to SMIs.
31.       Techni':al Assistance.  Recognizing the neeid for institutional sup-
port for the technological upgrading of Korea's SMIs, the Government imple-
mented measures to strengthen the organizational aspects of SKI extension ser-
vices and technical assistance. The operations of SKIPC, the principal
Government agency responsible for extension services and training for SMIs,
have expanded very rapidly and will continue to be strengthened and augment-



-9-
ed.  The Bank's recent Small and Medium Machinery lndustry Project financed
the use of foreign consultants by SMIPC to assist small and medium machinery
producers upgrade their technoLogical capabilities. In 1982, the Government
took action to rationalize the proliferation of agencies providing SMI exten-
sion se.vices by reducing the number of agencies from 19 to 4 (SMIPC, SMIB,
CNB and KCGF) and making SMIPC'the prime agency responsible for coordinating
*         these activities.
32.       Subcontracting Policies.  Subcontracting in Korea is relativeLy
, poorly developed, as large firms tend to be vertically integrated and rely
relatively little on subcontractors. Many subcontractors are small in size,
operate with inadequate facilities, Lack sufficient managerial or technical
skills and are often subject to disadvantageous arrangements with the prime
contractors. The Government has enacted laws to promote subcontracting,
including designating various components to be manufactured excLusively by
subcontractors and designating certain s*ubcontracting subsectors to receive
intensified technical assistance and credit.  Despite the actions already
taken or planned, the Government recognized that not all subcontracting
;          difficulties can be resolved through legislative action.  A Bank-sponsored
study of subcontracting identified three problem areas: (a) the late payment
of invoices; (b) insufficient channels for the arbitration of disputes; and
(c) inability of SMIs to meet quality standards required by larger firms.
Under the proposed project, specific steps wilL be taken to find satisfactory
and practical solutions to these problens (para. 39).
The Bank's Industrial Lending Strategy
33.       The Bank's DFC operations in Korea have helped strengthen several of
the specialized financial intermediaries responsible for long-term Lending to
industry. A total of $1.4 billion has been lent by the Bank to the four
Korean DFCs: the Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB), the Korea Development
Bank (KDB), SMIB and CNR. In general, implementation has been excellent:  the
Project Completion Reports (PCRs) conclude in aLl cases that the Bank's objec-
Lives of resource transfer and institution building were achieved satisfac-
torily. The Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) supported the PCR
conclusions and praised the high standard of the DFC's operations as well as
their development record. The most recent PPAR (June 30, 1983), Report No.
4577 for Loan 1175-KO (SMIB II) pointed out that the original appraisal goals
for the project which included employment creation, value added, increased
sales and exports, were generally attained but raised the question that tech-
nical assistance could have been more effectively integrated with a specia-
lized agency coordinating SMI assistance. Accordingly the Small and Medium
Machinery Industry Project (Loan 2215-KO) supported the Government's strategy
to consolidate the number of technical assistance agencies and to designate
SMIPC as the coordinating institution.  Results to date on the technical
assistance component of the project have been very favorable. However, the
project's credit component had to be widened in scppe to encompass all SMI
activities in order to improve lagging disbursements as it was in direct
competition with the Government-funded SMIPF which offers local currency funds
with below market interest rates for the financing of imported metal working
machinery.



- 11 -
Credit Component
37.       Under the credit component, project funds would be used to finance
economicaLly and financially viable projects selected and appraised by SMIB
and CNB which have effectively implemented a number of previous bank
projects. About $70 million of the credit component would be earmarked for
a         SMIB which serves small and medium industries and $40 milLion of the credit
component would be earmarked for CNB, serving small-scale enterprises. It is
expected that a total of 550 subprojects would be financed. Based on the
a actual results of subprojects financed in the past by SmIB and CNB, the credit
funds should yield an average finnncial rate of return of 22%, and an average
economic rate of return of 37Z. Institutional improvements agreed to under
the project would be, in the case of SMIB, an annual portfolio arrears
reduction plan and a study of SMIB's role in a liberalized financial sector.
In the case of CNB, institutional improvements would incLude a plan to rebuild
its equity and the initiation of a staff training program for foreign currency
subproject appraisal and supervision.
38.       Technical Assistance and Training Component.  This component would
be executed by SMIPC and would support an expansion of its successful tech-
nical assistance and training programs being implemented under the Small and
Medium Machinery Industry Project (Loan 2215-KO). Under the proposed project,
a total of $1.0 million of Bank financing would be supplied to SMIPC for
foreign specialist technical assistance and for overseas training of approxi-
mately 40 SMIPC and SMI staff. SMIPC envisages utilizing the foreign
specialists to conduct pre-investment feasibility analysis of equipment
requirements for SMI expansions. There would be no restrictions on the type of
expertise covered by this component although SMIPC intends to provide experts
in the non-metalworking subsectors, especially textiles, ceramic and plastics
which are not now served by the Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project.
Under the project, cost recovery from SMI clients for domestic consultants
would be 10X from December 1986 onwards and for expatriate technical experts
services it would increase from the present 10Z to 302 in 1986. SMIPC shall
undertake a review of its overall cost recovery levels for domestic and
expatriate experts and shall, not later than November 30, 1986, inform the
Bank of the findings of such review and, in consultation with the. Bank,
determine the cost recovery levels to be achieved in the domestic and
expatriate programs in calendar year 1987 and thereafter (Section 3.04 of the
draft SMIPC Project Agreement).
39.       Subcontracting.  In spite of an array of laws and policies intro-
duced by the Government in the 1970s and 1980s to strengthen subcontracting
procedures, there remain persistent problems (para. 32). The private sector
Korea Federation of Small Business (KFSB) has been asked by the Government, as
the representative body for small business, to undertake an action-oriented
review of these problem areas and come up with proposals for alleviating them.
Detailed terms of reference and an implementation schedule for the reviev
would be prepared by KFSB by October 30, 1985 and an understanding was reached
during negotiations that the Government would submit the study and the
Government's recommendations to the Bank by June 30, 1986, and thereafter
implement the recomunendations as agreed with the Bank and in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 10 -
34.       In the pasc, the Bank's lending to Korean DFCs served three primary
objectives: (a) transfer of foreign exchange resources to strengthen indus-
trial investment; (b) institution building; and (c) support of the industriaL
investment priorities of the Government. In the 1980's the Bank's industrial
lending, in giving greater emphasis. to the policy environment for industry and
finance, has had three main dimensions: (a) structural adjustment loans (SAL)
which were heavily focused on the industrial sector giving particular atten-
tion to trade and incentive policies; (b) industrial finance projects which
increasingly emphasize broad financial policies; and (c) sector-wide projects
which aim at supporting specific industrial sectors including the SMI sec-
tor.  Venture capital is being providea by the Korea Development Investment
Corporation which is partially funded by IFC. Bank loans to the Korea Insti-
tute of Electronics Technology (KIET), the Korea Technology Development Corpo-
ration (KTDC) and the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC)
were all designed to finance the transfer of technology, upgrade skills and
supply foreign currency financing so that Korean industry would remain compe-
titive in international markets as its competitive advantage shifts from labor
intensive to more technology intensive industries. The proposed project would
support the overall objectives of the Bank's industrial lending to Korea and
contribute to the development needs of the SMI sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The project was prepared by SMIPC, SMIB, CNB, and the Bank.  The
project was appraised in September 1984. Negotiations were held in Washing-
ton, D.C. from March 11 to March 13, 1985; the Korean delegation was led by
Mr. Rak-Yong Uhm.  A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5378-KO, dated March 22,
1985, is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplemen-
tary loan and project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The proposed project would support the Bank's new approach to indus-
trial lending in Korea while addressing the specific needs of the SMI sector
that, until recently, had inadequate access to credit. Within the overall
context of the Bank's financial sector dialogue with Korea, the project would
seek to achieve four specific objectives: (a) facilitate the financing of
high priority investments by providing part of the foreign exchange require-
ments of SMIB and CNB in an amount of $70 million and $40 million respec-
tively; (b) support the continued institutional development of the two main
term-lending institutions in the SMI sector; (c) support further expansion and
improvements in the provision of technical assistance to SMIs; and (d) support
the improvement of subcontracting procedures. The importation of foreign
equipment and technology, together with the strengthening of technical assis-
tance to enterprises and subcontracting, are expected to upgrade their techni-
cal capability of small and medium enterprises which is the critical factor in
their ability to compete effectively.



- 11 -
Credit Component
37.       Under the credit component, project funds would be used to finance
economically and financially viable projects selected and appraised by SMIB
and CNB which have effectively implr;mented a number of previous bank
projects. About $70 million of the credit component would be earmarked for
SMIB which serves small and medium industries and $40 million of the credit
component would be earmarked for CNB, serving small-scale enterprises. It is
expected that a total of 550 subprojects would be financed. Based on the
actual results of subprojects financed in the past by SMIB and CNB, thk credit
funds should yield an average financial rate of return of 22%, and an average
economic rate of return of 37%. Institutional improvements agreed to under
the project would be, in the case of SMIB, an annual portfolio arrears
reduction plan and a study of SMIB's role in a liberalized financial sector.
In the case of CNB, institutional improvements would include a plan to rebuild
its equity and the initiation of a staff training program for foreign currency
subproject appraisal and supervision.
38.       Technical Assistance and Training Component.  This component would
be executed by SMIPC and would support an expansion of its successful tech-
nical assistance and training programs being implemented under the Small and
Medium Machinery Industry Project (Loan 2215-KO). Under the proposed project,
a total of $1.0 million of Bank financing would be supplied to SMIPC for
foreign specialist technicaL assistance and for overseas training of approxi-
mately 40 SMIPC and SHI staff. SMIPC envisages utilizing the foreign
specialists to conduct pre-investment feasibility analysis of equipment
requirements for SKI expansions. There would be no restrictions on the type of
expertise covered by this component although SMIPC intends to provide experts
in the non-metalworking subsectors, especially textiles, ceramic and plastics
which are not now served by the Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project.
Under the project, cost recovery from SMI clients for domestic consultants
would be 10% from December 1986 onwards and for expatriate technical experts
services it would increase from the present 10X to 30% in 1986. SMIPC shall
undertake a review of its overall cost recovery levels for domestic and
expatriate experts and shall, not later than November 30, 1986, inform the
Bank of the findings of such review and, in consultation with the. Bank,
determine the cost recovery levels to be achieved in the domestic and
expatriate programs in calendar year 1987 and thereafter (Section 3.04 of the
draft SMIPC Project Agreement).
39.       Subcontracting.  In spite of an array of laws and policies intro-
duced by the Government in the 1970s and 1980s to strengthen subcontracting
procedures, there remain persistent problems (para. 32). The private sector
Korea Federation of Small Business (KFSB) has been asked by the Government, as
the representative body for small business, to undertake an action-oriented
review of these problem areas and come up with proposals for alleviating them.
Detailed terms of reference and an implementation schedule for the review
would be prepared by KFSB by October 30, 1985 and an understanding was reached
during negotiations that the Government would submit the study and the
Government's recommendations to the Bank by June 30, 1986, and thereafter
implement the recommendations as agreed with the Bank and in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
The SmaLl and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
40.       SMIPC, established by the Covernment in 1979 as the central agency
for the development of the SMI sector, carries out a wide range of financial
and technical assistance program's. SMIPC is staffed with competent techni-
cians and has an experienced management team. SMIPC's main activity is the
provision of extension services to SHIs; its other activities include: equip-
*       ment leasing, the operation of a training institute for SMIs and the adminis-
*       tration of the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund (SMIPF).  The SMIPF is
provided from the Government budget as a contribution to SMIPC's equity.
41.       Under the Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project (Loan
2215-RO), SMIPC has operated an expatriate extension services program which
has so far been very satisfactory. SMIPC has worked out systems and proce-
dures for the efficienc acquisition, performance and evaluation of expatriate
technicians which include the provision of adequate counterparts and logisti-
cal support.  Over the first 18 months of the program, 381 expatriate techni-
cians were contracted for a total 286 man-months of in-country, shop floor
assistance to SMIs. SMIPC's expatriate extension services have mainly been
for solving metalworking problems in the fields of metal cutting, casting,
forging, heat treatment and plating. Lesser amounts of assistance have been
for process and quality controL problems and in product design. Evaluations
of approximately 25Z of SMIPC's larger engagements (20 man-days or more)
indicate that the ratio of annual client benefits to SMIPC's actual (one-time)
cost of providing the service averages 18 to one. The expatriate program
makes up less than one-third of SMIPC's extension services; the balance is
provided from its own staff and from domestic experts. The technical assis-
tance has been mainly in the metalworking sector in line with the emphasis of
the Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project. During negotiations,
progress by SMIPC in establishing staff training opportunities and
establishing branch offices were discussed.
42.       SMIPC's operating performance for 1983, the first complete year of
operation, showed a W 4.7 billion loss, largely due to a relatively low level
of initial operations. SMIPC's income from the SMIPF operations and equipment
leasing fees were not of sufficient volume to cover expenses. Funding for the
cash loss was made up by Government contributions. Operations for 1984 and
later years are expected to improve as the accumulated outstanding portfolio
of the SMIPF and the equipment leasing business volume increases.  Rates
charged to SMI clients for extension services are deliberately maintained low
to encourage its use. SMIPC has agreed to charge SMI clients 101 of the
direct cost for extension services provided by domestic consultants by
December 1986 onwards. SMIPC's rates for expatriate services now cover
approximately 10X of variable costs, but are to be increased to 301 by year
end 1986 at which time, SMIPC and the Bank would review rates as described in
para. 38. The earnings from SMIPF and leasing operations provide the
necessary cushion against unrecovered costs of the extension services. An
agreement with the Government and SMIPC on the cost recovery percentages was
reached during negotiations (section 3.04 of the draft SMIPC Project
Agreement).



- 13 -
The Small and Medium Industry Bank
43.       SMIB was incorporated in 1961 as a government-owned institution
specializing in extending financial assistance to small and medium indus-
tries. Eligible SMIs, as defined under the SMIB Bank Act, are enterprises
with generally less than 500 efi7ployees. SMIB, with headquarters in Seoul, has
67 branches and sub-branches distributed throughout the country and three
representative offices Located abroad. SMIB is a well-managed institution.
At mid-1984, its staff totalled over 7,200 with 15% located at the head
office.  SMIB's loan evaluation and supervision procedures are satisfactory.
44.       SMIB offers a wide variety of services including checking accounts,
working capital and term loans, overdrafts, financing of trade bills, bank
guarantees and SMI extension services. Loan operations, SMIB's basic busi-
ness, has expanded at 35% per year (20X per year real growth) in the last five
years. Working capita. Loans make up approximately 70% of SMIB's W 2.2 tril-
lion ($2.8 billion) loan portfolio; the balance is made up or term Loans
mostly local currency (232) and foreign currency loans (7%). SMIB's annuaL
Foreign currency loan commitments have declined from $71 million in 1979 to
$45 million in 1983 due to the increase in the SMIPF credit line which pro-
duces loans to SMIs at relatively low rates of interest and to the fact that
the domestic capical goods industry is increasingly able to meet the equipment
needs of SMIs. Enterprises with less than 100 employees now receive over half
of SMIB's lending volume. In addition, half of the term loan volume in 1983
went to borrowers with assets of less than W 500 million ($625,000).
Subprojects financed by Bank funds have shown an average financial rate of
return of 25X and an economic rate of return of 46%.
45.       SMIB has a strong balance sheet with W 3 trillion ($3.7 billion) in
assets and a long-term debt to equity ratio of 4.4:1, well within the agreed
limit of 10:1 (Section 3.03 of the draft SMIB Project Agreement). SMIB has
had a long history of profitable operations, but in June 1982, the Government
reduced all interest rates on new and existing loans to 10% while term savings
deposits (with rates ranging from 11% to 27%) were held fixed until
maturity. The resultant negative spread produced losses in 1982 and 1983. In
January and in November of 1984 the Government introduced an improved interest
rate structure which will enable SMIB to breakeven for 1984 and remain
profitable thereafter. Another factor accounting for SMIB's narrow spread is
that under the SMIPF, funds are made available by the Government to SMIB at
7.5% and on-lent at only 9%, which does not permit an adequate spread.
46.       Considering that SMIB serves the relatively high risk SMI sector,
with over 63,000 clients and 158,000 loan accounts, the quality of its loan
portfolio is remarkably good. Loan arrears now stand at 3.7% of total loans
with only 3.9% of loans affected by arrears. Between December 31, 1982, and
June 30, 1984, SMIB's loans arrears ratio deteriorated slightly from the 2.9%
to 3.7%. SMIB has agreed to an arrears reduction program, featuring stepped
up collection efforts which would have the objective of maintaining the
arrears to a normal level of 3% from 1985 to 1989. SMIB's provisions for bad
debts is considered adequate.



- 14 -
47.       During the period 1979-83, short-term savings deposits have kept
pace with SHIB's loan portfolio growth with a 301 per year average increase.
Government-provided credit lines (mainly BOK borrowings) have increased at a
40% annual average growth during 1979-1983. SMIB's forecasts show its
resources expanding at 23Z per jyear. during 1984-1988. The resources would be
derived from increased deposits (62Z), BOK short-term borrowings (12%), long-
term borrowings (22Z) and equity (4Z). Working capital loans are projected to
grow at 24% per year and equipment loans at 20% per year. Operations are
expected to be profitable with interest spreads increasing from 3.9% in 1984
to 4.7% in 1988. SMIB plans to mobiLize $210 million in foreign currency over
the period 1984-88.
48.       SMIB as it is now structured serves almost exclusively SMI
clients. With the advent of financial sector liberalization, SMIB management
has initiated an assessment of SMIB's role including whether SHIB should
develop alternative sources of funding arid broaden its clientele and the
financial services it provides. The institution has had limited success in
raising long-term local currency resources from non-government sources. SMIB
has agreed to conduct a study, funded from its own resources, of its role in a
liberalized financial sector. An outline for the terms of reference has been
agreed upon; the study and SMIB's recommendations would be made available to
the Bank by June 30, 1986. SMIB would implement its recommendations as agreed
by the Bank.
The Citizens National Bank
49.       CNB was established in December 1962 under the CNB Act as a finan-
cial institution serving the general population and small-scale enterpises
(SSEs) which are defined as enterprises with less than 100 employees or with
assets of less than W 300 million. CNB is 67% owned by the Government; the
balance of its shares is held by five commercial banks. CNB, with over 9,900
staff and 234 branches, offers its clients a full range of services including
savings deposits, checking accounts, short-term business and consumer loans,
credit card services, overdrafts, long-term equipment loans and SSE extension
services. Overall, CNB is a competently managed financial institution known
in Korea for its high standards of efficiency and service to its clients.
50.       CNB's loan evaluation and supervision procedures are generally
adequate. However, CNB is in the process of deLegating responsibility for
foreign currency loan administration from the centrally-located Foreign Loan
Department to selected branches. In order to enable the branches to carry out
effectively these activities, CNB has agreed to conduct a comprehensive train-
ing program for its staff handling foreign currency loans and a detailed
training plan was reviewed during negotiations (Section 2.10 of the draft CNB
Project Agreement).
51.       Loan operations, CNB's basic business, have expanded at the rate of
39% per year (22% per year real growth) in the last four years. Short-term
Loans consisting of business and consumer financing make up over 80% of CNB's
W 2.3 trillion ($2.9 billion) loan portfolio. The balance is made up of long-
term loans, mostly local currency loans for equipment financing (18%) and
foreign currency term loans (1.5%). CNB foreign currency loan operations have



- 15 -
risen from a beginning in 1980 to a total outstanding portfolio of $63 million
on June 30, 1984. CNB's term lending clients have consistently been SSEs;
more than 77% of foreign currency equipment loans have been extended to enter-
prises with assets of less than W 250 million.  Only 13Z of term loans have
gone to enterprises with more than 50 employees. An ex-post evaluation of
subprojects under Loan 1829-KOI(CNB II) showed economic rates of return
ranging between 20Z and 63Z.
52.       During 1980 to mid-1984, CNB's total assets more than doubled (from
W 1.5 trillion to W 3.4 trillion) registering an average annual growth of
31X. Growth has largely been financed by increased demand and time deposits
(approximately 80Z) with longer term borrowings and equity increase pLaying a
smaller role. Operating losses during 1982 and 1983 have eroded CNB's equity
base to the point where its long-term debt to equity (D/E) ratio at June 30,
1984 was 14:1, exceeding the covenanted 10:1 ratio under Loan 2144-KO. The
operating losses were due to a government adjustment of interest rates as
described in para. 45. As a result, CNB lost W 18 billion in 1983 and W 27
billion in 1984. In January and November of 1984, the Government introduced a
new, more favorable structure of interest rates, and in the first half of
1984. CNB has shown a net income of W 1.3 billion. Future operations are
forecast to remain profitabLe. At negotiations, the Government confirmed that
W 10 billion had been included in the Government's 1985 budget for subscrip-
tion to CNB's share capital and the funds would be provided in its entirety to
CNB by the end of 1985 in a manner consistent with the target growth of
monetary aggregates. It was also agreed that the private shareholders of CNB
should be asked to make a pari-passu contribution to its equity during 1985,
thus reducing the D/E ratio to a level below 10:1 by year-end 1985. The Bank
has thoroughly reviewed CNB's debt structure and agreed to exclude from long-
term debt all deposits over one year against which CNB has made loans to the
same depositors under various schemes. However, the maximum D/E ratio would
remain 10:1. The quality of CNB's loan portfolio is excellent. Arrears have
consistently been close to 2Z of loans outstanding; collection rates are
approximately 97%.
53.       CNB's overall lending operations are projected during the period
1984 to 1988 to expand by 26Z per year. Sources for the needed resources
wouLd be mainly deposits (85%), BOK rediscounts (8%), and earnings and equity
(7Z). During the four year period 1985-88, CNB intends to mobilize $240 mil-
lion in foreign currency from the Bank, ADB, commercial and bilateral sources.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       Total project cost is estimated at $182.2 million, of which the
foreign exchange component would be $111.0 million, or 61% of the total. The
project consists of a credit component of $181.2 million ($110.0 million, or
617 is foreign exchange) to be executed by SMIB and CNB, and a $1.0 million
technical assistance component administered by SMIPC. Price contingencies
have been applied only to the technicaL assistance component based on an
expected international inflation rate of 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986 and 8Z per
year for later years.



- 16 -
55.       The proposed Bank loan of $111.0 million would finance the estimated
foreign exchange costs of the project comprising the credit component
($110.0 million), the technical assistance component ($0.8 million) and price
contingencies ($0.2 million). The estimated local costs ($71.2 million) oi
the credit component would be financed by loans from the participating finan-
cial institutions (SMIB and CNB) or from equity from the subloan borrowers.
The incremental domestic currency cost associated with the technical assist-
ance component would be very insignificant and would be borne by SMIPC.
Features of the Proposed Loan
56.       Relending Arrangements.  The proposed Bank loan of $111 million
would be made to the Republic of Korea, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. The Government would relend $1 million of the loan proceeds to
SMIPC for the technical assistance component and $70 million to SMIB and
$40 million to CNB on the same terms as tlieBank loan. Signing of the SMIB,
CNB and SMIPC subsidiary loan agreements would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). SMIPC would
bear the foreign exchange and variable interest risks of the technical
assistance component, while the subborrowers of SMIB and CNB would bear the
foreign exchange and variable interest risks of the credit component
(Schedule 6, para. 3 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Amortization Schedule.  The technical assistance component of the
proposed loan would have a fixed amortization schedule and would be repaid
over a 15-year period including 3 years grace. The credit component would
have an adjustable composite amortization schedule reflecting the aggregate
amortization schedules of the subloans made by SMIB and CNB but not to exceed
an amortization period of 15 years. Individual subloans would have a maximum
maturity of 13 years, including a reasonable grace period
58.       Relending Rate.  For the credit component, SMIB and CNB intend to
lend the proceeds of the proposed loan at a variable interest rate of 2Z above
their own effective borrowing cost (Sections 2.04(c) of the draft SMIB and CNB
Agreements, respectively). This is in line with the MOF guidelines and the
general practice of the DFCs in Korea for relending the proceeds of foreign
exchange borrowings from international sources. In addition, subborrowers
would be charged a commitment fee of 0.75 of 1% p.a. on the undisbursed
portion of the subloan committed to them.  The 2Z interest spread is adequate
to cover the cost incurred by the DFC in processing subloan applications and
supervising subprojects.
59.       The effective cost of Bank funds, together with the effective for-
eign exchange and variable interest risks, are expected to be positive in real
terms, given the actual domestic inflation rate for 1984 (3Z), and the pro-
jected domestic inflation rates of 3-6Z during 1985-88. The lending rates
under the project would be comparable to the interest rate charged by commer-
cial banks (11-11.5Z), but higLer than those charged under the SMIPF (9%).
60.       Subloan Ceiling.  Under the ongoing Bank projects (Ln. 2004-KO, SMIB
IV and Ln. 2144-KO, CNB II), SMIB has a subloan ceiling of $2.0 million while
CNB has a ceiling of $500,000. For the proposed project, SMIB's subloan



- 17 -
ceiLing would be raised to $3.0 million (Section 2.02 (b) (B) of the draft
Loan Agreement). While this new SMIB ceiling is not expected to raise SMIB's
average foreign currency subloan size, which has not changed in real terms in
the last five years ($261,000 in 1983 values), it would enable SMIB to con-
tinue to service a few repeat clients who have expanded and have larger
investment requirements. The ceiling for CNB (1983 average foreign currency
subloan size:  $106,000), would be increased from $500,000 to $700,000 to
allow it to service a limited number of high technology enterprises with
capital intensive requirements (Section 2.02 (b)(B) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
61.       Free Limit.  SMIB's present free limit for Ln. 2004-KO is $500,000
which results in over 35Z of the loan commitments and 12% of the number of
subloans being classified as 'A' subloans, to be submitted to the Bank for
prior approval. Under the proposed project, SMIB would have a free limit of
$750,000 which, when allowing for projected inflation, would result in approx-
imately 10Z of all subloans and 30X of subloan commitment being 'A' subloans
(Section 2.02 (c) (i) of the draft Loan Agreement). CNB would, with the
proposed project, have its subloan free limit increased from the present
$300,000 to $400,000 (Section 2.02 (c) (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Under Ln. 2144-KO (CNB II), approximately 7% of the number of subloans and 22Z
of the amount committed are 'A' subloans, and it is expected that these
percentages would be maintained under the proposed project. These levels of
review are considered appropriate given the quality of both institutions' loan
appraisal.
62.       Procurement.  In the case of the proceeds of the Bank loan to be
channeled through SKIPC, agreement was reached during negotiations with the
Government and SMIPC that all consultants would be engaged in accordance with
Bank Guidelines (Section 2.02 of the draft SMIPC Agreement). In addition, all
consultancy and training contracts above $100,000 would have consultant
selection, terms of reference (TOR) and contract terms subject to the Bank's
prior approval (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft SMIPC Project Agreement). Due
to the many short-term assignments, consultants and training contracts below
$100,000 would be subject to post-approval review by Bank supervision
missions. Standard TORs and consultant contract forms have been prepared for
repeater contracts under Ln. 2215-KO and are satisfactory.  In the case of the
credit component to be implemented by SMIB and CNB, the procurement procedures
would be those of each DFC. These procedures, which are based on strict
competitive bidding practices, requiring at least three bids from potential
suppliers, have been examined and found to be satisfactory under previous Bank
loans. These procedures conform to the Government's guidelines, which
emphasize competitive bidding, and to the special requirements of small and
medium enterprises which follow efficient commercial procurement practices and
have very few large contracts.
63.       Disbursement.  Disbursements under the proposed Bank loan would be
for two purposes:   a  technical assistance and training; and (b) credit.  The
technical assistance and training component would be disbursed against:
(a) 100% of the total costs of internationally recruited consultancy services
retained by SMIPC; (b) 100% of ovpr5eas training for both SMIPC staff and for
SMI's management and staff.  The credit component would be used, as in



- 18 -
previous Bank loans by SMIB and CNB, to finance: (a) up to 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of goods and services directly imported by their
subborrowers; and (b) up to 60% of the cost in domestic currency (representing
the estimated foreign exchange cost) of locally manufactured or procured
machinery and equipment. The credit component of the proposed Bank loan is
expected to be fully committed in two years and the loan would be fully
disbursed in four years. The standard IDF disbursement profile is not
relevant for the portion to be allocated to SMIPC, whereas the disbursement
under the credit component is expected to be completed within the disbursement
profile for the IDF sector in the region, which is complete disbursement
within four years, because of the efficiency of the SMIB and CNB lending
operations.
64.       Disbursement would be made against full documentation for subloans
in excess of the free limit (above $750,000 for SMIB and $400,000 for CNB) and
for contracts above $100,000 for SMIPC. For SMIB and CNB subloans below their
rcspective free limits and for SMIPC project expenditures below $100,000,
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be used. Full supporting documenta-
tion would be retained by the three institutions and made available for Bank
inspection during supervision missions (Section 4.01 (c) of the draft SMIPC
Agreement and Sections 3.01 of the draft CNB and SMIB Project Agreement).
Revolving funds equal to three month's estimated disbursements plus 20% would
be established in the form of Special Accounts with SMIB, CNB and SMIPC's
banks from which they would obtain reimbursement from all applicable expen-
ditures. SHIB and CNB would furnish the bank, from time to time, with the
usual information on all subloans approved under the SOE procedure; assurance
to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
65.       Auditing.  As required under existing Bank loans, SMIB, CNB and
SMIPC's accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank (Sections 3.02 and 4.01(b) of the draft CNB, SMIB and SMIPC Pro,-ct
Agreements respectively). The SOEs, as well as the special accounts would be
subject to audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and supporting
documentation would be available for inspection by Bank supervision missions
(Sections 3.02 of the draft SMIB and CNB Project Agreements and Section 4.01
(b) of the draft SMIPC Project Agreement). Previous audits received by the
Bank have been comprehensive; have conformed to the Bank's requirements; and
have expressed unqualified opinions. Each institution would submit audited
statements utilizing separate project accounts no later than five months after
the close of their fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.       Benefits.  The proposed project with its foreign exchange financing
and technical assistance would provide SMI with the means to enter into new
high technology fields and to upgrade product quality in order to maintain
c^npetitiveness in an increasingly competitive market place. Additionally,
the proposed project would make a significant contribution to increased
employment as it would finance an estimated total of 550 subprojects (200
SMIB, 350 CNB) which would create an estimated 6,000 new jobs. Data on job
creation is based on SMIB's ($25,400 per job) and CNB's ($21,100 per job)
current subproject cost per job adjusted for anticipated price increases.



- 19 -
These investment costs per job created are approximately one-third those of
larger projects financed by KLB and KDB. Since individual subprojects to be
financed under the loan have not yet been identified, an ex ante quantifica-
tion of their economic impact is not possible. However, under the Bank's past
SMI financing in Korea, the average ex post financial rate of return was 22Z
and the economic rate of return was 37%. Rates of return under the proposed
project are expected to be similar to those of past Bank financed subprojects.
The proposed project has also been designed to assist SMIB in addressing
issues relating to its future role and arrears and CNB in improving its debt
equity ratio and appraisal capability.
67.       The technical assistance and training component would enable SMIPC
'to continue its consultancy and overseas training activities. Based on
SMIPC's past accomplishments, the program for the proposed component would
assist a total of up to 65 enterprises in solving production technology
problems. In addition, a total of 15 SMIPC staff and 25 SMI management and
skilled staff would receive overseas training. While it is difficult to
quantify the benefits of this component precisely, analysis of a limited
number of SMIPC assisted enterprises indicates that the returns are very high.
68.       Risks.  The potential risks in this project stem from three
factors:  (a)Tan unlikely deterioration of SMIPC's services during project
implementation; (b) disbursement of the credit component lagging from
appraisal estimates; and (c) SMIB and CNB's loan portfolio and financial per-
formance not improving. Regarding SMIPC's services, the institution is
staffed with capable technicians and led by pragmatic, experienced manage-
ment. SMIPC's staff salary levels are reviewed regularly to insure competi-
tiveness with the private sector and an efficient network of local operations
and overseas representative offices has been established to cut the problem
solving response time. On the aspect of potential slow disbursement, the
foreign currency demand projections have been based on the estimates of SMIB
and CNB and are conservative. The credit component takes into consideration
the planned availability of parallel credit lines especially the SMIPF. At
negotiations, CNB and SMIB reconfirmed their forecasts for foreign currency
loan commitments during the project period. With respect to SMIB and CNB's
portfolio and institutional improvement, an action plan was agreed to by SMIB
on portfolio performance and CNB and the Government agreed to bringing CNB's
D/E ratio to within the covenanted 10:1 level by the end of 1985. Both CNUB
and SMIB agreed at negotiations to the maintenance of a 10:1 D/E ratio
ceiling. On balance, the benefits of the project are likely to be substantial
and the risks involved manageable; no adverse environmental risk is
foreseen. Each subproject appraisal would analyze the environmental aspects
of -the proposed investment highlighting the measures to be utilized to ensure
worker safety and protection from work hazards.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and SMIPC, SMIB and CNB and the
Report of the Committee providedt for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Signing of subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank
between the Government and SMIPC, SMIB and CNB would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
March 28, 1985
Washington, D.C.
U~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
TSA 6 L  I t                                    PG 
UREA. REPUU.IC OF     - SOCIAL iNicATS DATA SKIRT
'RULIlC OF                     RINCS fnOP      s (UITEU AVRANSE) j
u  IOST                 (N   INCEST xTIATE) /b
ugCmT            InU    ilcome         IIDDUS nCOKe
196OLb-    177L- USTIAUk          AUIA A PACIFIC        LAT. AISICA & CAR
a& CnumM St. m)
TOTAL                               53.3       33.3      93.3
ASNICEULURAZ.                       20.4       23.2      22.4
a  caInP  (NO)                        10.0   * 30.0   1910.0               1031.2                  2108.6
cwtlUU  Or OIL SQUIVALMUT)         143.0      493.0   1104.0             367.3                    993.5
roruPWTDneARu  (THUSND)    25003.0    32241.0  39336.0
OlRB  POPULATh  CE OF ToTAL,)       27.7       41.1      61.3             34.7                    66.5
f                  n~~~~~v loll NNUKICTS
PLAT I no Iw20 (HILL)                   50.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                           70.2
POPUATION IWNEIM                                        1.7
OUIATION ELITY
PE SQ. MR.                       233.9      327.4    393.2             261.9                     35.7
PER Sq. 3M. AGLI. LAJID         1223.2     1357.3   1730.3             1735.1                    92.4
POPULATION ACE SECTC E (Z)
0-14 12S                         42.9       42.1      33.1              39.0                    39.9
15-64 uRS                         53.7       54.6      62.8             57.6                     56.0
65 ANM ABOE                        1.3        3.3       4.1              3.3                      4.1
POPbLATION CRM RIATE (:)
TOTAL                              2.1        2.5       1.7              2.3                      2.4
URiBA                              4.7        6.7       5.1              4.3                      3.6
CRIUD B      RATE (PE  TGSW)        42.8       30.4      22.8             30.1                     31.3
CRUDE DEATi RATE (PU IROUS)         13.7        9.6       6.4              9.5                     8.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8        2.1       1.5              2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. AmNL (ToUs)              ..      671.0    686.0 IC
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WI   )          ..       25        54.5.0            52.7                    40.3
mIDO AD nines11
INDEX OF 7tl0 PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       89.0       99.0    125.0             123.0                    114.3
PER CAPIM SUPPLY OF
CALORIS CZ OF REQUIRmIENTS)       93.0      109.0    126.0              114.4                   110.6
PROTElIS (GCAMS PER DAY)          57.0       64.0      74.0              57.0                    67.3
OF WEICK ANIMAL AND PULSE        7.0        8.0      14.0 /d           14.1                    34.1
C1110 (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          3.6        4.0       1.9              7.2                     5.7
uLnT
LIFE EXPECT. AT 311TI (TEARS)       53.9       59.1      67.3             60.4                    64.7
113PM  IST. RATE (PER TWOUS)        78.3       50.1     32.0              66.3                    60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (UPOP)
TOTAL                             12.1       58.0      71.0 /a           37.0                    65.4
URiE                              18.6       54.0      85.0 7;           54.6                    78.1
RURAL                              9.5       33.a      54.9 7r          26.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO HZCRETA DISPOSAL
(E Or POpULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       25.0      64.0 Ic           41.3                    52.9
auR"N                               ..       59.0      80.0 4c *7.4                              67.0
RURAL                               ..         ..      50.0 7            33.3                    24.5
t                       POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN           3540.0     2240.0    140.0            7749.4                  1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           3240.0 f. 1790.0 j   350.0            2460.4                   815.3
POP. PER OSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           2310.0      1950.0    640.0 /h         1044.2                   367.2
P                        llFUN                            1230.0 If  1100.0    750.0 7T          651.2                   411.5
RURL                                ..         ..        ..            2594.6                  2636.3
ADIKSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..       14.9       *-              27.0                    27.3
551OSE
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOaL                               5.6        5.2       4.5
URBN                               5.4        4.9       4.4
RURAL                              5.6        5.5       4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/lROO
TOTAL                              2.5        2.3       2.0 /c
URBAN                              2.8        2.7       2.1 7;
RURAL                              2.4        2.2       2.0 7r
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF WELLINGS)
TOTAL                             28.4       49.9
URBAN                             67.3       92.4
RURAL                             12.4       29.9      64.9 /d



- 22 -                                              ANNEX I
S A   L  1 J.                                        PANE 2
, ~~~~~~swusinz OJ aouin (NIM An u) 
REIET             M        NIDDLECIT2500A16
mukuitsl              I a  mu                 is  llbC ao
inuaanu                                --
ADJURED UINLUUM T MUO
PRULai  TOMS                         94.0      1   '     107.0               102.0                     10*.4
NUU                       ^^-0       t104.t    101.0               1O-.3                     106.3
FBALE                                103.0    tO5.0                 35.2     S      C     -     .
BCOImARWi TOTS.L                     27.0        42.0      S...                4 U.                      43.2
MALI                      36.0        30.0      63..                .84                       42.3
FEKAL                     14.0        32.0      30.0                43.1                      44.5
VOCATIOAL  1 or 3     1MnNM)           14.2        14.3      16.6                17.5                      33.6
IUPZL-TEACIU  RATIO30'
*l NAR?                              1.0         17.0      44.0                '.I                       30.Z
KONDIAT                              34.0        37.0      33.0               23.5                       16.1
ADMT LEL9At MUS (S)                    70.6        17.0      36-0                72.3                      79.1
IAnIUIEAi CAh/hOUAI   Po                0.3         1.3       6.5                10.1                      46.0
WO1 hhCZE!VEEI/=UOh6ID MP              21.2       124.4     333-.               113-6                     225-6
TV ucREGZUJn WOUU         PM            o.3        13.0     164.7                50-1                     107.2
MEIIIPtAm  (DAZLT GEEA
LIUIXST1 ) CIRCULATION
EIMoAID POPUATION                    66.2       136.173?3.1                  53-9                       65.5
CIYJIE U&alUALATTENDiIC/CAPSA           4.1         5.2       1.7I                3.4                       2.
TOTAL SAMo  OR (T1MCO)               6304.0     11263.0  13414.0                   .
rAE (PMCT)                          26.1         32.7      32.5               33.5                       23.2
AGRICULTU   (PEECE)                  66.0        50.0      34.0                52.2                      31.5
INDUST    (11RC111)                  9.0         17.0      29.0                17.3                      23.9
PARTICIPATION NATE (CPCE)
TOAL                                 33.2        33.0      39.2                36.7                      32.2
KAUE                                 4.5         46.8      52.4                50.3                      49.3
FEMALE                               17.2        23.0      25.7                26.6                      15.2
COCIUC DEPEEDEC? RATIO                1.6         1.3       0.9                 1.1                       1.4
PERCEPT1 OF MIIA7l  INOME6
EEVIED n
EZUEST  E or NW LD                     ..        17.1      16.1                22.2.
RIST 202 O   OW                        ..        44.5      45.3               4 4.0
LGVST 20S  IOrOIUOLDS                  ..         7.1       5.7 7[             6.4
LOWEST 402  No  O LD3                  ..        17.7      16.3               15.3
ESTIMATED £IS0dT  POVER! DUO
LEVrL (Cuss PU CAPITA)
UBA                                    ..          ..    Jf.0 0               133.6                     263.2
L                                      ..          ..     270.0 Ih            152.0                     164.0
LEVEL (1W3 PER CPITA T)
U CU.I                                 ..          ..     270.0 h             177.3                     522.8
RUAL                                   ..          ..     510.0              164.6                      372.4
ESTIMAED POP. XUo AUmIT
PrOVETy  S1   LSEVL (5)
cw                                     ..          ..      16.0               23.4
RURAL                                                      it *-  1.O         37.7                        *-
NOT A    YVAIA -S-
NOT APPLICABLE
MOTEl
1T         Sgroup avurem   for each liateater are pepnltlou-nlteSd arLtEmtlc  acs-a  Courage Of courtrteae so        thb
indcator. dapeada -n amalabtlty o  data ad to not taem.
Ib elem ogetbwria noted. DaaU for LOW  ree  to anw yiar bet_n.. 1959 and 1961; leta for 1970  betwean 1969 and
1371; md date for ilnat ReAnt bUtt   between  1960 and 1N2.
lc  1973; /± 1977; I   1979g a  1962; IL lagaterad, not all practcins In the couaLtry;  /b 1978; /t 1971.
JUNE. 1984



-23                                                                                  Pae-
d-eneti    rdwst ct emuisis.ie  IsdEetiw  treed.. .,A .hrfdlwsesisI -slot llitst-VEwe bees.. e aaseis.
it.  .r.i -o   it    t   Ittse  e   .-ctIrv  stt   it s,  ehietiLe y - aw                II  . e-n,eoty  ci wtsh taiolhat Soihilt.,w  -ni   L-t   tee- ir- laity  diwip ii i
-nissle. Li fw w-res  ms   Is. sh no              wlin  es  *eelete   iwigni0  eeRt-s,  ul afsn e  teledwaft           1 ielwsi   .1bl q lftwnit ofe "eeyt i-     hed.iPet
cseh. Le    a  slb.  iwdnie.   .tie. she esiwe.  -1ceie  atEWS             -tile I1ttimetee    Ied  wer tic  iwilletis ad  let,I adt Be- si  eitmi., lesis  mmmif he
~~ isines.ed  wise.'                                            optIU    .A4              IIUS-d   rL . -   I±IiOo  -`4" Wutltt  dm54 hos    sLtab   it1 pmatitl
s±4lwi.   retesseci alt.tssem   tre Itts sest.lIlw-                  -f ef prehiI ly.w  atcp". iw&citititw.astemfo                                 pyittias  les    d
tiel-.1It-m  pe.te  jt.                                                                                  i  lla          yteiie.tielmlis  pemdw prqtetpely ~.Wisim
ian  in   -l   iJiciedd eeI, tmegmsls tnt..s.t.l  tetmt ad.
twist  isteyeTli  ws aesa  . ee.at  ppeies  .~t.mt g. er eet.tetadiei.    et.   ho -m psreemett  smellSby eow  phyeitae  bto a ity1 e  sle
preette..  -a          lit.Ie le.dt.o          mit = et I:  aS"  her.1. 'wai1e saltte.9    -In . Sml.   Mit. I an  eit.e  iwepe   ttret eeaasii.9  ad
-                                 *~~~s.. ..d  ste~~~MO t.-emi...                  .F                       ..                                                    P -   fetesR.;.  by it etiwelt   it. -F dswdbee
-d %,4-.  -1-1         -IO...   ~. "OP sM            e s*0 Me1, otsd. io" o    blasIk
'?tfi.flltt4M%l15t.5!!fl¶flCP id!.11.tw   #M   1   di-    #Stltka
Whe  rese.".Iceti.itlI-wl.tepc iteepititt-se wmH                                                                      a          e Ttees  5lba  -W` alstCmo              eq   eneieme
- eesi ese ieletitaenhwsV  stew                                       leimo pe te iwelim'b   td SytiW                       nu pi eimiia~l              
twti epelttw  i  ce  as -   ee  teirmeteity  ed  eelsssya.                           teiite. ltiepeI.el. a            lletsd.    IA sweed  -eetl        b-  otitee  lad
tint..   etefrstie  erateewtee tetwititrim..  etetoi.st%.e.-mew led   amomest.                              Pp-
cilstii.  wee.  mi lewl  It.*wetr ee  eeht eiiof  tnes u.                                  aeei ap-telite   wlt fleekat Pet   w5 ie    ee,.-prit
yeas,   he  epssemCeshpests -.tile  law heltIepwm. tll                                     tie,tti.a    ew    iite                    stsley
eseitetta   t erie  st  cd  tp £r list  tWaed  teet'eeetet   .eeti,
tiie Twe wiw tette- is. tee  stealth   tw  ad hew..iweti   Oueti                               flSrt   tLIema                 l,. i4tat -,GIIst.ic . lcdhe.
Isws te    tstew.E.iesetd-    ettss  tw _ (we                                                 ewoycheii.tewetc    epet   elec h_..a~ 
'iweseesee   et-I.  I  ect  5  it,,tm -lt,t.  hi nt ice  iw eati                           les  e    jstR        tetteet   etitamptc'.ewm5e   i
aeott  set  te  re. Te tiitewec teetteat wlt em  nuted .i tmi                            eso ic r,hleeetIt th   etilt  tfhtttl it.
-eteitte =seeee    Iitweiit,sr-ftkhe   ysLete  ttthetes                                                            li-,3         1f j        1- :ed -  attest smi4t1n
i.w.ttiae    ni,t.- It  te  itdestet..s  wecitsew  mtesh  a eeeii         steshetmenle. twit                 .-  ma..   elhe  rtit  teItsctc i" .
setee     tn  satiwie.eest-tnttwiltte  inhec  eliewdtIk        p.1s  ioti  t  ? i.                             1 emi tianttiecial -eeesise   e
Etaot.    4. V..                                                                       ot-i.the          hi -   ethbesre%  en-.et.sei.tiis   .tdti  --. 4i
flea   te.*  Itl, e t  ilt  li". -Ist  I seet  rietp                                                         itttei i          destetiis  isLo- reid otdw,tti
Pit   . -.sttattt.ii   tl - i-em    -i    t.. itwliIii   eae pertsws   it tLt:m  edeit ptemti  ae    ii%-.  adcrant.                                                      nt
*.,iit.w   e-tsetrtIIeiti W           A-.  tisai   0-ttb van.   otlirwew  lIt-                                             3.         --           br    P-1   obol 
"It4 pertt  .ad IctrM        tti  ted1 t -ti , p                        U- weTVtwiaci                    -,tee      Itwi thses  eties   -.?  -eest-e  icr  tes,detealt 
e.peaiio   tili.  ell  ridlii  Iwi.                                                          ems.L npesc. Ieeflteih                  Iesa    entedwek  e         ?ees te.a
rtttteeC reh   es  rewit-eie   -tist  iit  t                    t wmshestattemcel  ei- prshs%.Sttiil                                                               -.etate.
pecaii   e    -t-sII, fit_-t,dlt.R                                                               eieodrmtni t.oe.I.lpiew  ad1 4".    -    te_ LyWen itemn WOthe4t e   S   tel.
Ceicc S citrie tei  hottdt- Stet  tls hm    yt t-teW.  .t wit-                           mo  wee ial ifte  its  eee eenm     fon  s.-    imewete   in    -
eeie  tiyiimiia  Iee. I's.   i tO   die .                                                  we-  F  1mWsceteaetae    siet
-         -eteatee   It  -d  tOt. dies.                                                              pon.  petitL.er inw                wewtie   wieaw    siiiwam   IV teottets
-Ce-ot.1-   -erdciete-ett    at,~    etei        e                    ti~  teet                        etwtri    ut    wnC    esttmteeetn rcalam it ine   ais cie,
-reec   e teisi  e'Is  $Ik       cotiteta   eIe  s-mLpe(t.t.                            tieieec   ptlt¶to-   or-  eMt  Istotmete c-   N-ab tie tor
mitt.                                                                                       peitif...ittie-_r   al    'Ewo tid  teesil  tc t-rkosetod meet we... I-,. eeeidrn
ereetee.                                                                         sines~~~~~~~I-aol, old  Ietingt sh  fe.  totedmi  eqdetiel 9 -1   I drs-te  sew-1
.ails Pleettiter- Setsitm.reeti il                                                                               ROrERidCs-stT- r-iswetelw-wiAneTted  on. wriui.,
tlesd--wtt of-          kmw  ...Pits L     e -isen - h-etkto.6                                                       _             .pkaclo   oe1.    S             -d
I= Ld           14W Lilt-                                            twoff olvmlw~peetitn i   l  . tehetw            snmtec                  i 
*- .r' orti* eetLaIi R   - isle  .1-  Ms tlwe. SW                        ok.           -  Pei   aw    eies   ecits   tti  lae  twice.
The"ercit -Vte   tese   tltaeets    actI    ottitow  (s.c. 94 -    :9                ~                                 - takd= je heo  i  twe#  esectte                   eeiiga
~eitt  at.a.ieetidsdt           idyim wt     iktis     is-f ant11   -Ain   IVA               eteIteitit.iee   eid Ina  per-sawint9 -t-t-l latertee-sm  ti.  l
deer11t.                                '     '43   W     W   11                                  Pewititectl   mete,  Ieem)-tit. -          n-it   ec  tele d f- itftepte -1
*tflote  eotecicitete   (stte   -  ew.titnesl    bwrewd  eesesieis   imsl  en-                        f-e  a1b ciel  rs. I-ad  fE.s   iee   tfe
wotf seeen   i  ce  e.i    oto   nstrilc  s  etiet  tee  ipte  ee                       Hneon      it ee.me)  a    enepeectn  1it                            aptin
ae. nt.hcsqei   ewe          .t'etti.4  inetlwIt)    ie    d   01e.rmeci o                                                                    n15    eiiptm    is
ese t,   detseeci   .t    e.irtte    .ec   eee   nt    esw.fiiiis   re     enise.ith    lste.adi.tnted
Ur.st   eds  cdP  -tte   wdfie   sdtrhii.tite-tewenns    e                                                                 ieieere
ai    ntestwst  y  a  kede  etetrii i  ncinettt                                            s~s         S~ ha-hetei  tpI -.Cin  ad    51. I eS   It a    cof ic
eatesta    oit  atce.i  eetsaetl  ceeesse.bd  swtshi.tirti eep etto ehe amd5..
met  ed        dteiihsieeel  ttittti, adettttd   t prnm   tie  alttL
(t                           es '.neeletd  teot. Ittlet,  I~7        -Ei mli dii.It.    ltTtiT-
lee   ote   -cots 3i wi-Esi tes  eed                  d -tese   -at   si -    teteNleldLMtieetc    te-ttiimdted       oa i-ie 
a                                     talnneti tt~~~~~~-  .   eti tsstwetiit         y Isle pitlde  tce sisaw -sehede
-iM;. ef It tct %-Ib1 tee -ceiwo per day" "ad N tokkit ps-e -
pets  reei. flotio -ftt   f-lea  chi  heots  pmsi.it kk.hM s
*                                    si nins  semi-i. a:,A  -   tot b  ew  te  h     t.1.  -fwpeeds.  rid.9 desesil   eittlte    ittieei                                                nie
aitd A.m,   cdhItIh-t   ii   dlte  cc                                                             eisdaett    ess   teinLn    tlM                          it       ew    dnw 



- 24 -
ANNEX I
PAge 4 af 5
Populatoen    : 399331    (.id-1983)
GNP per Capita: 0581,484 (1983)
ROERA- eo    TND?CATOU
Amount
(mItLIon GUS at                                Anmnul rowth rates (2)
current prtio)                               A-15a, rctuae
Iadicator                                       1983A            I79         Ina          I9M        III:        19 9083190
NATIONAL ACC0WJNT
Oro" dtoaeacicproduct                        76.5S1             7.1        -3.5          6.9        5.5          9.1               7.5
Agriculture                                10,527             4.7       -21.7        24.3         4.1         4.3               4.0
Industry                                   30219              8.2        -1.0          3.0        6.8         12.7              J.5
Services                                   35,805             6.7         2.9          3.1        4.9         6.9               8.0
Connumption                                  56,530             7.4        -1.0          3.2        4.3          6.3              8.7
Grouo invemmtent                             20,763            17.5       -24.4          2.2       13.1         16.6              7.5
fxportes of C1 S                             27,919            -3.6         9.9         17.0        4.9         11.4              9.5
Imports of C IS                             2ZS661              8.6        -7.7          7.6        1.2          °.1              1.6
Cross natlonal savings                       19.136             1.7       -17.7          3.0        s.n         21.0              9.4
Princo
'1F deflator (1980 * 100)                                       0.746        1.0         1.158       1.241       1.274          464.1
Exchaneo rate (USSI -    )                                    684.0       607.6        6S1.0      711.1        775.75
xaport prtce index (1910 - 100)                                93.6       WM1.0        103.0       99.2         96.4            238.7
import price index (1980 -100)                                 7S.4       100.0        104.0      9M.7          94.4            231.3
Terme of trade indox (1980 - 100)                             115.3       100.0         97.9     1M2.2         103.1            102.1
Share of GDP at mirket prices (2)                        Ayerage-ame a Iincrase (T)
(ae currne  pric   Ilb )                                             st oonetant 1930 urieaS)
1980    1910     1975    1q10    1945    1990        1960-70   1470-75   1975-90   1980-35   1985-40
Gross domuetic product               100.0   1.       100.0   100.0   100.0  1On.0           8.6       9.8        8.2      7.0        7.5
Agriculture                        36.7    26.9      24.3    16.5    13.6    11.1          4.1       4.9      -1.2       7.3        3.5
Industry                           20.1    29.3      31.8    41.3    34.4    38.5         17.4      15.3       11.3      8.5      1m.n
Servicee                           43.2    43.6      41.7    42.1    42.4    4n.9          8.1       7.7       7.6       6.7        6.5
Coneumption                        85.1    81.0      80.1    76.4    72.7    69.6          6.7       7.8       7.1       5.7        4.6
Gross Investment                   11.n    26.9      29.0    10.2    28.4    30.8         23.4      11.2       14.6      6.0        8.8
Import. of GCN7                     1.4    14.3      27.6    35.7    34.6    39.9         29.3      25.4       16.1      9.8        M.1
Exports of CNFS                    12.8    24.1      36.3    42.7    40.1    40.5         20.2      15.8      17.0       64.        7.7
Go.s national eavl                  8.0    19.5      20.6    21.7    26.5    30.0         17.2      14.6        9.0     12.7
A  2 Olr COP                       Labor Force in 193         Yt110one      (Si
1q60      1970       1975      1910      1984
Currant revenue.                      18.5       17.8      17.9       19.9      19.4      Arrculture                      4.1      2M.A
Current expenditures                  14.3       13.1      15.4       15.6      15.9       Industry                       4.2      27.7
Current surplue                        4.2        4.7       2.5        4.3       1.5       Servieos                       6. n      9.4
Capital expenditure                    1.4        6.4       4.4        5.9       5.5      unemployed                      0.6       4.1
Foreig2  financiag                      -         1.0       1.1        1.0       0.5
Tocal Labor Force        15.1     10.0 
1960-70        1970-75         1975-8n        1980-15         1985-90
OTHn  IDICATORS
Amnual GClP growth rate (Z)                                            A.7           0.0             7.9             7.n            7.5
Annl CNP per captta growth rate (2)                                    5.9           6.9             5.2             5.5            5.9
Annusl enerAg  coneuption growth rate (2)                             14.2           9.,             R.7             5.7            5.4
TcoR                                                                   1.9           2.7             5.4            4.2             4.0
KarXina savinp rate                                                    0.3           0.3             0.3             0.1            n..5
Import elsaticty                                                       2.2           1.6             2.0             1.2             1.n2
Reet Asia and Pacitfc Realanal Office
December 1984



25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Polatiem          39.931    (dd1-1943 thou"ndu)
a" per Capital U88I,184  t1983)
KOSN  -   LANC oEl  WAN3T. SURIVIAL CAPITAL AnW or?
(Nil ons lSpat eurrent priee-)
Actual                                    Protfected
Indicator                               1970    1975     197t      19791930           191t    19A2    le n
VALMIC9 or AI3Y
Export. of goa. *nd services         1,379   5,909   17124   1 9,528   22,587   27,552   21150n   30,1n 9    A7,6e6
Of whIchinh   rchaodies f.o.b.      U2   5,021   12,678   14,694   17.220   20,938   20,n46    21,204    74,r23
poorect. of et d and marvceo        2.U0   7.99Z   18,451   24.115   26,360   32,476   11,500   32,5R8    89.e 65
Of which.   gerohoasoi.  f.o.b.    t,304   4,671   14.436   10,266   21,604   24,337   23,361   24.004    75.173
net tracfrt"n                          178     22S      *67       439      449       506      473       502       674
Current Account laidne               -623  -1 eSR  -1 060   -4 153   -5 125  -4 *41   -2 546   -1 607    -I 504
9Z of GMi)                             M-               9     .3             M T   (-7e3.9)   rT2) -           2.nw
Direct ineew nt                        66       53       63        17       -5        59      100      01.4       10t
MLT Loam  (net)                       242   1.252    2,216    2,e4s    2.098    4,267    2.051    1,104           G67
Offitcial                           147    416        463       862      68n    1,337      3A3      n.a.      I,034
Private                              95      765    1,552    2,093    1,408    2,929    I.171       n.a.       -436
Other capital (mnel. *rroe 8          372      929     -510   2I.00      3,770       367      48      -975       -630
oaLeLuon.)
ChanRa In reaerves (gross)            -57   -376       -707      -n       -536    -275        -03       -74    -3.n0n
2nternationat ruerwn  (tgreov)        606   2.012    5.405    6.f303    G.39    7.114    7,212    6.410    :2.741
Remervea as onthe Lmports              3.3     3.01     3.5       3.1       2.9      2.6      2.7       2.1       3.11
EXTRNAL CAUTAL AND D03r.
-Gross Diur n_mnto
Official granke                       -        -        -         -        -         -       5n 
Conceeslonal lone                   123      123      1J4       103      13R       15[      34A    21. 3
OAC                               322     Thi       17       liT       12-1     13a       i43    203 1
OPC                                 -        -       13        20       17         1
nD                                  1       14        3         -        -        -         _        _          _
Other                               -        1        -         -        -        -         -        -          -
NonconeAseLonal Loans               317   1 511    3 729    4 44U      3 655    A 779    3 937    3 230       5 .66
Official ezWort credift           -I          2T9   &                          'izr             -;!W5     -;T  i
Imp                                 7      3R7      321       426      254      3n6       433      184      1.ito
Ottar multilateral                  S      Ri        69        91       an       304      116       1As       223
Private - source (residual)       287   1,083    3.,n1    3.541    2,705    3.125    2.85t    2,153         3,102
.1edinm- and Long-t1rM  Dbeb
Debt outstanding 4 dletre d        1,797   5,540   11,937   14.553   16,274   19.064   22,06   28,170    30,165
Officeal - source                 613   2,657    5.nt6    5,667    6,4q8    7,702    6,572            -    15,332
Private  - source               1.135   2,883    6,921    8,4R11     9,776   12,263   13,433          -    23,173
Undisbursed debt                    902   1,679    6.294    5,137    7,072    5,906    5,324    4.295         6,370
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payment               26R      8;67    1,825    2,578    2,762    1,597    A:,tQ9   '8,57n      a 50n
Interest                           70     283       657      R90    1.110    1.777    2,144    2,1R7        1,293
Payments *    exports              19.4    13.1      10.7      13.2     12.2      13.0     14.5     15.4        9.6
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstandlng and dLeburse4        -   2,409    3,575    6,279   in.047   13,653   14.100   113340         1t0nn
Tnteret payments                      -       -       236       377      907    1.510    1,523   13160        1.400
Tntereat a  I  xports                 -        -      1.4       1.9      4.0      6.7       5.1      3.9        1. 
Averagte TAtereet Rate on Now Loamn (2)
OfEicial                              4.5      7.9      7.4       7.6      7.5       3.4      8.0     1n.9       10.9
Private                                                               7.1      0.3      9.7      11.4     14.0      13.6     Z1.7      11.7      11. 7
g                             AverA" e Interne t Rate on Now Loons (I)
Offictal                             28.0    19.3      19.6      Ih.3      10.6     15.3     M5.5      16.4      16b.
Private                              10.9      5.7     10.9      10.7     11.2      13.1       .1      33.3R     1t1.
Am : of debt outstanding
at end of most recene
year (10R2)
iaturity attucture of debt outetanding
Nacuritiea due witbIn S years                                        53.4
Maturittes due within 10 yers                                        73 1
Intereat structure of debt outetanding                                   .7
Interest due within first year
/a Preliminary
gast Axsi and Pacific Retional nffice
December 1984



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF xOREA A
A. Statement of lank Loans and IDA Credite (as of Septmber 30. 1984)
Loan or                                                                                Amount (m million)
Credit     Calendar                                                                  (less cancellations)
Number       Year          Borrower                Purpose                    Bank      TW       IDA    Undisbursed
Forty-four loans and eight credits fully disbursed                          2,640.78   40.00   115.58
1319         1976     ADC                  Irrigation                          29.0                             0.28
136"         1977     ADC                  Irrigation                          95.0                             3.52
1503         1978     ADC                  Agriculture/Irrigation              36.0                             8.31
153D         1978     Republic of Korea   Rural Infraetructure II              95.0                             0.34
1666         1979     ISWACO               Chungju Multipurpose               125.0                            10.57
1676         1979     Republic of Korea   Electronics Technology               29.0                            8.44
1758         1979     Republic of Korea   Second Gvangju Regional              65.0                            15.86
1774         1979     Republic of Korea   Population I                         30.0                           21.44
1788         1979     Korea Electric Co.  Power                               115.0                            15.23
1800         1980     Republic of Korea   Education V                         100.0                             5.80
1836         1980     Republic of Korea   Railway VII                          94.0                            4.67
1851         1980     AFDC                 Agriculture II                      50.0                             5.00
1932         1981     KLTCB VIII           Div. Finance Co.                    90.0                             5.02
1933         1981     DIB IV               Div. Finance Co.                   100.0                             0.16
1980         1981     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land & Housing            75.3                           22.38
2004         1871     SNUV IV              Dev. Finance Co.                    60.0                             8.02
2072         1982     Republic of Korea   Water Supply                         90.0                            37.47
2111         1982     Republic of Korea   Agricultural Marketing               31.3                            10.78
2112         1982     KTDC                 Technology Development              50.0                            18.88
2144         1982     CDB                  DFC                                 30.0                            15.42
2215         1982     Republic of Korea   Machinery Industry                   70.0     -64.75
2216         1982     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land and Housing         100.0                           92.95
2228         1952     Republic of Korea   Provincial and County Roads         125.0                           92.29
2267         1983     Republic of Korea   Coal and Cement Distribution        122.0                           121.54
2309         19B3     Republic of Korea   Industrial Finance                  255.0                          213.38
2350         1983     Republic of Korea   Second Water Supply                  78.5                            71.22
2388         1984     Republic of Korea   Jeonju Regional Development          60.0                            59.85
2392         1984     Republic of Korea   Highway Sector                      230.0                          227.91
2427         1984     Republic of Korea   Education Sector                    100.0                            99.75
Total                                                         5,170.88   40.00   115.58       1,261.23
of which has been repaid                                      716.19    2.92      6.58
Total now outstanding                                         4,454.69   37.08   109.00
Amount sold                   8.83
of which has been repaid   8.83                                  -        -        -
Total now held by Dank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                              4.454.69   37.08   109.00
Total undisbursed                                              1.261.23     -        -          461.23
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A are described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.



- 27 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1984)
Fiscal                                                        Amount (t million)
Year        Obligor             Types of Business            Loan  Equlty Total
1968     KDFC                   Development Financing           -      0.7    0.7
r                             1969     Honam Silk Co.          Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -       0.7    0.7
1974     KDFC                   Development Financing           -      0.4    0.4
1974     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -       0.3    0.3
1975     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development   5.0    0.6    5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.        Synthetlc Fibers               6.9    2.1    9.0
t975     Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company Ltd.   Tourism                         2.8    0.7    3.5
1976     Korea investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -       0.4    0.4
1976     Chonju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                           5.0    0.8    5.8
1976     Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd.  Zinc                           15.0    4.0   19.0
1976     KDFC                   Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -      0.2    0.2
1977     KDFC                   Development Financing           -      0.3    0.3
1977     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977     Korea Development
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market                15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     KDFC                   Development Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -      1.7    1.7
1979     KIFC                   Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1979     Korea Development
Leasing Corp                                         -     0.2    0.2
1979     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -      1.5    1.5
1980/84  Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -      5.3    5.3
1980     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1980/    Korea Securities
82/84     Finance Corp.                                        -      2.3    2.3
1980     KDFC                   Development Financing           -      2.2    2.2
1981     Taihan Bulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.             Grain Port Terminal            7.0    2.,    9.5
1982     KIFC                   Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1982     K-TAC (Korea Technology
*                                       Advancement Corp.)  Research & Development           -     0.6    0.6
1983     KDIC                   Money & Capital Market          -      0.9    0.9
1984     Halla Cement           Cement Const. Material         4.4    3.9    8.3
1985     Korea Funtd            hney & Capital Market           -      9.1    9.1
Total gross commitment                              110.8   47.7  158.5
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                               94.7   14.7  109.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                    16.1   33.0   49.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                     4.4    3.9    8.3
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX III
-28 -
KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:                 11 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                 SMIPC, SMIB and CNB
with Bank Assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                    June 1983
(d)  First Bank mission to identify this project:    November 1983
Ce)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:            September 9, 1984
(f)  Planned date of completion of negotiations:        March 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                      July 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
Signing of subsidiary loan agreements between the Covernment and
SMIPC, SMIB and CNB satisfactory to the Bank (para. 69).
(b) Other:
(i)    Review by KFSB of subcontracting problem areas (para. 39);
(ii)    Cost recoveries for SMIPC's technical assistance (para. 42);
(iii)    Start up of a training program for CNB staff handling foreign
curre.ncy loans (para. 50).



