Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9310
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2515-KO)
JANUARY 25. 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofrcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =         Korea Won
US$               -         Korea Won 800 (Appraisal)
US$               =         Korea Won 667 (Completion)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CNB        -     Citizens National Bank
DFI        -     Development Finance Institution
ERR        -     Economic Rate of Return
FRR        -     Financial Rate of Return
KBI        -     Korea Banking Institute
KDB        -     Korea Develoment Bank
KEB        -     Ko.-ea Exchange 'lank
KFSB       -     Korea Federation of Small Business
KLB        -     Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
PCR        -     Project Completion Report
SAL        -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR        -     Staff Appraisal Report
SMI        -     Small and Medium Industry
SMIB       -     Sma.l and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC      -     Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
SMIPF      -     Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund
SMMI       -     Small and Medium Machinery Industry



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D C 20433
USA
Offce of 0irectm-Gefi,al
Op"eftmo itaIuitai
January 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Republic of Korea
Small and Medium Industry Project
(Loan 2515-KO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Republic of Korea - Small and Medium
Industry Project (Loan 2515-KO)* prepared by the Asia Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2515-KO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface        ..............................i......i
Evaluation Summary   .                  ........ ..iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity                        ....
Background ...
Project Obejctives and Description...                                              2
Project Design and Organization....                                                3
Project Implementation and Results....                                             4
Project Sustainability....                                                         5
Bank Performance....  5
Project Entities' Performance....                                                  6
Project Rela.ionship....                                                           6
Project Documentation and Data....                                                 6
Lessons....    7
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE
Citizens National Bank
I. Introduction..                                                                    9
II. The Environment..                                                                 9
The Industrial Sector    ..10
SMI Sector                               .11
III. CNB's Role and the Bank Loan Objectives   .                     .13
IV. Utilization of the Loan    ..14
Loan Utilization    ..14
Subborrower Characteristics    ..14
Subproject Characteristics    ..14
Operational and Economic Performance of Subprojects                            15
V. Institutional Aspects    ..17
Organization, Management and Staffing   .                    .17
VI.  Operational and Financial Performance of CNB    .                  .20
Operational Performance ..20
Resource Mobilization    ..20
Financial Performance    ..21
Quality of Loan Portfolio    ..22
VII. Conclusions    ..23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed vAthout World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE (Cont'd)
Small and Hedium Industry Promotion Corporation
I.  Introduction .     ...........................................     25
II.  Project Objectives .................. .     .... ..............    25
A. Technical Assistance ............... ..................         25
B. Overseas Training ....................................          25
III.  Technical Assistance Results         ............................  26
A. Yearly Planning and Achievement ..................    ....      26
B. Consultants Invited ...................   ...............       26
IV.  Overseas Training Results .............   *#  ................     27
A. Summary          ..............................................  27
B. SMIPC Staff Training ......       ...........................   27
V.  Budget Inputs ...     .      .     .... ...........                27
VIII.  Conclusions .........      ....................................    28
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loan          .......................................  30
2.  Project Timetable .......      ................................    31
3.  Loan Disbursements .......      ...............................    31
4. Status of Covenants ...        ....................................  32
5.  Use of Bank Resources ...................................          33
A. Staff Inputs          .........................................  33
B. Missions         .............................................  33
6. Project Implementation
6.1 CNB:  Overview of Subprojects ....                    .        34
6.2 CNB:  Characteristics of Subprojects .............   ...       35
6.3 CNB:  Financial Indicators of Subprojects ..........    .      41
6.4 CNB:  Economic Indicators of Subprojects ............          47
6.5 CNB:  Current Status of Subprojects ..............   ...       53
6.6 SMIPC:  Use of Consultancy Services ..............   ...       58
6.7 SMIPC:  Overseas Training of Staff and Technicians ..          59
6.8 SMIPC:  Effectiveness Analysis of Extension Services.          60
6.9 SMIPC:  Status of Cost Recovery .....        ................  61
7. CNB's Financial Performance
7.1  Projected and Actual Income Statements, 1986-1989             62
7.2  Projected and Actual Balance Sheet, 1986-1989                 63
7.3  Projected and Actual Financial Ratios, 1986-1989              65
7.4  Collection Performance, 1986-1989           .      .          67
7.5  Analysis of Loans in Arrears, 1986-1989 ... ........          68
7.6  Resources Position as of December 31, 1989  . .69



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2515-KO)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Small and Medium
Industry (SMI) Project in the Republic of Korea for which Loan 2515-KO in an
amount equivalent to US$111.0 million was approved by the Board on April 16,
1985. At the request of the Government (Borrower) the loan was renegotiated
in August 1986 and the amount was reduced to only US$21.0 million; the loan
documents were signed on October 29, 1986--an unusually long elapse time of
eighteen months.  The proceeds of the Loan were made available to two Project
Entitiess Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC), and
Citizens National Bank (CNB). The third proposed Project Entity, Small and
Medium Industry Bank (SMIB), dropped out. The loan was closed on June 30,
1989, one year ahead of the schedule, with US$0.63 million of the loan amount
undisbursed and cancelled. Thus, the final loan amount was US$20.37 million,
which has been fully disbursed. The last disbursement was on June 28, 1989.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared
by the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Country Department II, Asia
Region (ASLIE), and Part II was prepared by the Project Entities, which also
supplied the statistical information included in Part III. Parts I and III of
the report have been discussed with the Project Entities and their comments
have been incorporated.
This PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, original); the
Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Project Entities; internal Bank memoranda; the CNB's annual and
quarterly progress reports, and the data supplied by CNB and SMIPC.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2515-KO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.       The Bank, tog&-her with the Governmen' of Korea, initiated during the
mid-1970s a series of loans to development finance and other specialized
institutions attuned to support the small and medium industrial enterprises
(SMIs) by providing them investment credit and technical assistance. As a
part of this series, a Bank loan of US$111.0 million to the Reoublic of Korea
for the Small and Medium Industry (SMI) Project was approved on April 16,
1985. However, the Korean ecoTomy was severely affected during 1985 by a
dramatic fall in the growth oi world trade and economies of the OECD
countries, and experienced a major economic downturn and a significant decline
in the demand for long-term loans by the Industrial enterprises. In order to
boost the sagging economy, the Government of Korea had to introduce special
schemes of financing industrial er.terprises [e.g. the Small and Medium
Industry Promotion Fund (SMIPF)]. Censequently, investment funds were
available to SMIs at 9.0 percent per annum (p.a) as compared to the Bank's on-
lending rate of about 10.5 percent p.a. (i.e. 2 percert above the standard
variable rate) and LIBOR of 8.5 percent p.a. Since the Bank loan became
hiRhly uncompetitive, the Government deferred signing of the loan documents to
avoid unnecessary commitment charges until October 29, '.986, and renegotiated
a drast'.cally reduced loan amount of US$21.0 million in August 1986. [Paras.
2.1 and 2.2].
2.       The above developments, however, did not lead to a significant change
in the main obiectives of the SMI Project, which were: (a) to facilitate
financing of high priority investments by providing foreign exchange to
Citizens National Bank '^NB) in the amount of US$20.0 million (instead of the
original amount of US$40.0 million), and to continue to strengthen the
institution, particularly concerning the handling of foreign currency loans;
and (b) to support the technical assistance and training programs executed by
the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) through a loan of
US$1.0 million. Leaving aside the prolonged deferment of loan signing and the
drastic reduction in loan amount (e.g. the proposed third Project Entity,
Small and Medium Industry Barsk (SMIB) for which US$70.0 million were approved,
dropped out due to a dramatic fall in its demand for investment loans in
foreign currency], the Project fulfilled most of its objectives. [Paras. 3.1-
3.3]
3.       The credit component was highly successful.  Both the commitments and
disbursements were well ahead of the schedule without significant problems.
CNB fulfilled almost all the Project objectives including the long-term debt
to equity ratio, procurement guidelines, regional and size distributions, and



- iv -
quality of portfolio. Specifically, CNB financed 146 subprojects with an
average loan size of US$135,600, out of which , were above and 139 were below
the free limit of US$400,000. Only two subprojects were operating under loss
and had some arrears at the end of March 1990. Because of its substantial
profits during 1986-89, CNB was able to keep its debt-equity ratio quite lows
varying between 4 to 7, while the Project's required ceiling was 10. CNB lent
US$13.4 million to 86 subprojects for enterprises located outside Seoul, and
US$16.1 million to 122 relatively small subprojects (with less than 50 workers
or 250 million won total assets), in each case exceeding the Project objective
of US$10.0 million. The procurement of imported goods was through limited
competitive bidding; Japan was the prominent supplier--winning 54% of the
total foreign currency expenditures. A majority of subprojects had a net
return on net worth in excess of 20X during their second year of operation.
[Paras. 5.1-5.3]
4.       The technical assistance and training component did not play an
important role in this Project. SMIPC used only US$0.57 million and cancelled
the remaining US$0.43 million in December 1988, mainly because it had access
to less expensive funds from the Government. The loan amount was well
expended in providing the foreign consultancy services especially for plant
automation and new process development at SMIs. SMIPC also made significant
progress towards attaining the direct cost recovery ratio for extension
services of the expatriate consultants, which was also a Project objective.
[Para. 5.5]
5.       Both CNB and SMIPC are sound institutions and have enviable track
record of serving the SMI Sector. Their capabili'v to sustain the gains made
under this Project is beyond doubt. [Para. 6.1]
6.       The Bank's performance was satisfactory, although there were problems
in certain aspects of Project appraisal and Project documentation. The Bank
contributed towards Korea's economic recovery and developmental impetus of its
industrial and financial sectors, and further strengthened CNB as a leading
development bank serving SMIs. In retrospect, however, the Bank played a
passive role in reacting to the Government's prolonged deferment of the loan
signing and eventual drastic reduction of the loan amount. But, Bank's
documentation pertaining to this Project has been most wanting, which may be a
reflection of the problems caused by the Bank reorganization. For example,
most supervision reports were only partially available, and even the Staff
Appraisal Report (Revised) that was prepared due to the exceptional
circumstances (as explained in para. 1 above) was not available. [Paras. 7.1,
10.1 and 10.2]
7.       The performance of both the Project Entities, CNB and SMIPC, was
satisfactory. CNB excelled most of the Project objectives. It committed and
disbursed the loan amount well ahead of the scheduled time. (Paras. 8.1 and
8.2]
8.       Several important lessons can be learned from the Project:  (i) the
on-lending interest rate should be market-oriented especially in an economy
having minimal interest rate distortions in its financial market; (ii) Bank's
sustained involvement in institution-building has been effective in support of
the SMIs; and (iii) Bank's greater attention to estimating demand for a line
of credit project, especially in a small, export-oriented economy and also to
project documentation is likely to be beneficial. [Para. 11.1]



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2515-KO)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name              : Small and Medium Industry Project
Loan Number       : 2515-KO
RVP Unit          : Asia Region
Country           : Republic of Korea
Sector            t Industry
Subsector         : Small and Medium Industry
2. Background
2.1      Since the mid-1960s economic policies of the Government of Korea have
been successfully tailored to promote rapid industrialization with emphasis on
the growth of manufactured exports. The structure of manufactured exports has
changed from largely light industrial goods to a wide range of goods including
machinery, metals and chemical products. This diversification and deepening
of the industrial sector involved emphasis on large, capital-intensive
industries, often at the experse of small and medium industries (SMIs). As a
result, the Government and the Bank initiated Iit the mid-1970s a well-
designed, long-term program to support SMIs. (See Part III, Table 1: Related
Bank Loans.) This program was centered around two development finance insti-
tutions (DFIs)--Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB), and Citizens National
Bank (CNB)--established by the Government to meet SMI's financial needs, along
with Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC)--established to
meet SMI's technical assistance and training needs. The present loan, Small
and Medium Industry (SMI) Project (Loan 2515-KO), is the last in this program,
since its basic objectives have been largely achieved.
2.2      The above loan was approved by the Board in the amount of US$111.0
million equivalent on April 16, 1985. However, due to events in the months
immediately following the Board approval, the loan had to be restructured.
The Korean economy had a sudden downturn in 1985 and growth of its
manufacturing sector dropped sharply from 14.8% per annum (pa) in 1984 to 3.5?
p.a. in 1985. This was largely due to a slowing down of the world trade and
economies of the OECD countries: the annual growth of world trade volume fell
from 8.5% in 1984 to 3.5? in 1985, and that of the OECD economies fell from
4.9? to 2.1?. SMIB's foreign currency loan demand dropped from US$3.0 million
per month rate during 1984 to only US$0.4 million per month by April 1986.



-2-
Durin6 the same period CNB experienced a levelling off of demand for foreign
currency loans (US$1.0 million per month). Both SMIB and CNB, therefore,
drastically reduced their Asian Development Bank lines of credit. Moreover,
the Government expanded its financial assista-ice programs to protect and
promote SMIs. These programs inclhded several special fundR, such as the
Equipment Fund for Exporting Enterprise and the subsidized  aall and Medium
Industry Promotion Fund (SMIPF). The latter provided loans to SMIs at below
the Bank or market interest rate. As a result, credit demand for funds from
the Bank's ongoing Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project (SMMI, Loan
2215-KO) for which substantial front-end-fee was already paid and commitment
charges were accruing, very significantly declined. Actually, the commitments
and disbursements were so slow that, despite allowing the loan proceeds to be
disbursed to SMIs in all subsectors (originally, eligibility was limited to
SMIs in machinery subsector) and extending the loan closing date by a year
(until December 31, 1987), as much as US$23.7 million had to be cancelled out
of the total loan amount of US$59.0 million. Hence, it was a prudent move by
the Government to defer the loan signing and avoid additional commitment
charges until it was assured that the funds would be quickly disbursed. An
exceptional long delay in loan signing by almost a year and a half, and an
ultimate reduction in the loan amount from US$111.0 million to US$21.0 million
equivalent led to protracted negotiations between the Project Entities, the
Government and the Bank, which concluded in August 1986. (Original
negotiations were held in March 1985.)
3. Project Obiectives and Description
3.1      The main objectives of the revised Project were:  (a) to facilitate
the financing of high priority investments by providing foreign exchange to
CNB in the amounts of US$20 million equivalent; (b) to support the continued
development of this long-term lending institution in the SMI sector;
(c) to support further expansion of the successful teL.,ical assistance and
training programs executed by SMIPC; and (d) to support the improvement of
subcontracting procedures.
3.2      Besides the dramatic fall in the demand for investment funds, the
Bank funds made available under this Project became uncompetitive during 1985
on several counts: ti) the effective cost of Bank funds increased after mid-
1985 due to a devaluation of US dollar vis-a-vis Swiss franc, German mark and
Japanese yen; (ii) the foreign exchange risk as well as the risk of half-
yearly interest rate variation had to be assumed by the subborrowers, while
they were not exposed to these risks in their borrowings from the government
supported special funds; (iii) the availability of investment loans at a
cheaper rate from SMIPF and other special funds; and (iv) the availability of
funds in the international financial market at a substantially lower LIBOR
rate.l/ Although a sigrificantly reduced loan amount was renegotiated in
August 1986, in a broad sense, the project objectives did not underg6 a
qualitative change. Specifically, only SMIPC's loan amount of US$1.0 million
1/ Uncompetitiveness of the Bank funds may have been confirmed by the
prepayment of a large number of subproject loans to CNB: 37 subborrowers
(out of 146) have already prepaid their loans.



-3-
remained intact, CNB's loan amount was cut to half (i.e. jS$20.0 million), and
SMIB completely dropped out.
3.3      The revised Project had two components:
(a)  Credit.  This component provided long-term investment funds in
foreign exchange t.. SMIs through a specialized lending institution
(CNB), which caters to only small enterprises--essentially upto 100
employees or with net assets of upto 300 million won. These funds
were expected to be utillled bv 175 subprojects.
(b) Technical Assistance anl Training. This component was expected to
provide: (i) technical assistance of foreign experts to conduct
feasibility studies and support the installation and start-up
phases; and (ii) overseas training of the SMIPC and SMI staff to
study new technologies and processes, and quality and production
control techniques.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1       The Project was conceived as a continuation of the Bank's extensive
involvement in support of the Korean SMI sector, and was not envisaged to have
signiflcant innovative features in its design and organization. This Project
was also not designed to handle the overall industrial and financial policies
of Korea as they were satisfactorily handled under the framework of Second
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) and Second Industria, Finance Project.
(See Part III, Table 1.) It was a conventional financial intermediary (DFI)
type operation. Its relending terms required that CNB would onlend the funds
to its subborrowers at the Bank standard variable interest rate plus 2Z p.a.
for periods of up to 13 years (including a reasonable grace period).  The
participating institution 'CNB) had already earned the reputation of an
efficient and well-managed DFI serving the SMI sector.  By 1984, CNB had a
network of 234 branches located throughout Korea.  This loan did not involve a
modification in CNB's Development Strategy, though it envisaged further
training of the CNB staff handling foreign currency loans, particularly to
strengthen their economic evaluation and market analysis capabilities. The
loan, moreover, required an addition to CNB's equity so that its long-term
debt to equity ratio remains below 10.0:1. The industrial coverage for the
subprojects was fairly wide: virtually all economic activities except
agriculture and trade were covered. CNB was required to approve no less than
US$10.0 million in the aggregate for investment projects outside the Seoul
rA.ty limits, and no less than US$10.0 million in the aggregate for smaller
4nvestment enterprises, each with total assets below 250 million won or no
more than 50 employees. No cut-off points were established regarding the
financial rate of return (FRR) and economic rate of return (ERR) as criteria
for eligibility of enterprises; CNB's prevalent practice of a case-by-case
review of the subproject proposals was considered adequate.
4.2       The technical assistance and training program was implemented by
SMIPC, which is a well-recognized "one stop" agency, attuned to serve the SMI
sector. This program followed the Bank's SMMI project, wherein US$11.0
million were approved for the technical assistance and training components.
According to SMPIC, it was expected to provide: (i) the extension services of



-4-
foreign experts to SMIs for Jrnroving their productivity, e.g. quality
improvement, cost reduction, ei.hance competitiveness, and develop new
products; and (ii) the overseas training to its staff, and the SMI managers
and technicians in the areas of quality control, industrial safety, and
ptoduct development. SMIPC had agreed to accomplish a significant improvement
in its cost recovery performance by December 31, 1987: to recover 102 of the
direct cost for the services provided by domestic consultants, and 30X of the
direct cost for the services provided by foreign consultants. Finally, the
Korea Federation of Small Business (KFSB) was expected to conduct or
coordinate a study of the subcontracting problems encountered by SMIs in
Korea, and the Government was to review the findings of such study and furnish
its recommendations to the Bank by December 31, 1987.
5.  Project Ini.2lementation and Results
5.1       The Credit Component.  US$19.8 million, out of the total approved
credit amount of US$20.0 million, were committed in one and a half year, and
were disbursed in less than two years from the date of loan effectiveness.
The balance of US$0.2 million was cancelled before June 30, 1989. Since both
the commitment and disbursement were well ahead of the schedule and had no
ma4or problems, the project performance can be considered satisfactory, as
usual for most industrial sector projects in Korea. The Government and CNB
satisfactorily met the Project objectives concerning the debt-equity ratio,
the quality of portfolio, the procurement guidelines, and the geographical and
size distributions.
5.2       As required under Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the CNB Project
Agreement, CNB effectively maintained its long-term debt to equity ratio well
below 10.0:1. Actually, largely due to its excellent profits, CNB's long-
term debt to equity ratio significantly declined to 6.6, 5.4, 4.9 and 4.3
respectively at the end of 1986, 1987, 1988 and 1.989. There were no major
problems in observing the Bank's procurement guidelines. Investment goods
worth US$18.4 million were directly imported by 134 subprojects through
limited international competitive bidding; procurement by the remaining 12
subprojects involving US$1.4 million loan amount was done through proprietary
contracts. CNB financed approximately 65% of the total investment cost,
including about 502 contributed by the Bank. CNB was very accurate in its
cost calculatior:   overall cost overrun was only 0.262.  CNB's project
completion dates were also reasonably accurate. CNB met the Project's
objective that no less than half of the investment loans would be made outside
the city limits of Seoul; actually, 592 of the subprojects involving over two-
thirds of the loan amount were outside Seoul.
5.3       CNB far exceeded the Project's objective that at least one-half of
the investment loans going to relatively small enterprises; actually, over 80U
of the loa amount went to the smaller enterprises (as defined in, para. 4.1).
Out of the 146 subprojects, only seven were above the free limit of US$400,000
which borrowed US$4.2 million. Further, 222 of the loan amount was used by
new enterprises and 732 by existing enterprises for expansion, and 52 by
replacement/modernization subprojects financed under this Project.
Performance of the subprojects financed under this Project was highly
satisfactory. At the end of March 1990, 144 subprojects were operating
profitably and only two subprojects had arrears. Further, 29Z of the



- 5 -
subprojects realized net returns on net worth of 20-30%, and 252 had net
returns of over 30? in their second year of oparation. Calculations of FRR
and ERR were required under the CNB Project Agreement for the subprojects
above the free limit. A random checking by CNB indicated that the subprojects
had done well in terms of these indicators. Finally, the subprojects created
substantially more employment than anticipated by CNB: 111 subprojects
generated 1,320 new jobs at an average investment cost per job of 36.3 million
won.
5.4       CNB's audited annual reports and quarterly progress reports have
been received regularly by the Bank. The reports of its external auditors
were without qualifications, and the progress reports were analytical and
informative.
5.5       The Technical Assistance and Training Component.  Out of US$1.00
million approved loan amount, only about US$0.57 million was committed and
disbursed; and over US$0.43 million was cancelled as early as December 2,
1988, reflecting the Government's increased allocation of domestic resources
to SMIPC. SMIPC found the stipulated cost recovery rates useful for its
future operations and partially accomplished them during implementation of
this Projects the overall recovery level reached 23.0?, and 100.0? whenever a
firm used the extension services of foreign consultants for over 30 days. On
the whole, the technical assistance component helped SMIPC in resolving SMI's
problems and improving their productivity, especially in providing the foreign
consultancy services for plant automation and new process development.
5.6       The study on subcontracting problems encountered by SMIs was
expected to be performed or coordinated under the supervision of KFSB, and
furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1987 along with Government's recommenda-
tions (Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement). The study was not accomplished.
6. Proiect Sustainability
6.1       The Project Entities, CNB and SMIPC, are well managed, financially
sound and reputed institutions. They have a well-established track record in
catering to the SMI sector. Their accomplishments are recognized both in
Korea and outside. There is thus little doubt that the project benefits will
be sustainable.
7. Bank Performance
7.1       The Bank's performance could have been better, in retrospect:  the
loan approved by the Board was excessive in amount and the maintenance of
documents was unsatisfactory. With hindsight, the Bank should have taken
better account of a possible major economic downturn of the Korean economy,
which was largely contributed by the sluggish international economic environ-
ment during 1985 and was first sensed by the Government. The Bank merely
continued to react to the Government's position: first, to postpone a signing
of the loan documents (eventually by almost one and a half years) so that it
can avoid accrual of unnecessary commitment charges; and second, to eventually
reduce the loan amount from US$111.0 million to US$21.0 million. The Bank
endeavored to persuade the Government to either limit the SMIPF loans to
purchase only locally produced goods or to curtail their subsidy. The



-6-
Government did neither, since in its judgement continuation of the subsidized
scheme without limiting it to the procurement of domestic goods was a
necessary adjustment assistance needed by SMIs at that time.
8. Proiect Entities' Performance
8.1       CNB's performance in executing the credit component along with the
institutional building aspects was excellent. During the project period,
1986-89, CNB undertook several organizational changes to streamline
operations, enhance efficiency through specialization, upgrade corporate
planning and improve loan management. CNB also strengthened the project
appraisal and supervision for foreign currency loans. As recognized by CNB,
the Bank contributed to its success to some extent. CNB maintained a sound
financial condition throughout the project period. The quality of its overall
portfolio continues to be excellent, although the performance of its foreign
currency loan portfolio is not as strong as that of the domestic currency
portfolio. The collection rates for domestic currency loans gradually
increased from 97.62 in 1986 to 98.82 in 1989; but those for foreign currency
loans during 1986-89 varied between 79.52 and 90.22. The latter are low,
partly due to the technical or financial difficulties (including foreign
exchange risk) faced by many subprojects. Since the foreign currency loans
constitute less than IZ of the overall portfolio, CNB's overall portfolio
remains sound (e.g. the collection rate: 98.82; the total arrears: 1.02; and
the loans affected by aLrears: 8.12 at the end of December 1989).2/
8.2       SMIPC had excellent performance in the Bank-supported Production
Technology Improvement Program under the SMMI Project.  It well expended the
Bank funds. SMIPC benefitted by its participation in the Project, and its
clients benefitted from the consultancy services provided under it.
9. Proiect Relationship
9.1       The success of the Project, despite the long delay in loan signing
and drastic reduction in the loan amount, is a result of the amiable working
relationship and cooperation between the Bank and the Borrower and Project
Entities. This cooperation was particularly effective during the preparation
and implementation phases of the Project.
10. Project Documentation and Data
10.1      The Loan Agreement and the Project Agreements were quite adequate
and appropriate for achieving the project objectives. The Appraisal Report
provided a useful framework for both the Bank and the Project Entities to
review the project implementation. Part II and the statistical data for Part
III of the PCR provided by CNB and SMIPC were satisfactory.
2/   These ratios for the foreign currency loan are not as satisfying:  the
collection rate: 87.8Z; the total arrears: 12.52; and the loans
affected by arrears: 11.7Z.



10.2      Bank's record of documents concerning this Project is, however,
incomplete, which may be a reflection of the problems caused by the Bank
reorganization. For instance, prior to receiving the PCR (Part II), the Bank
had almost no information or project documents from SMIPC concerning the use
of funds and adherence to the project covenants. Even regarding CNB, the
outcome of Section 2.10 of the CNB Project Agreement (i.e. to conduct a
comprehensive training program for its selected staff for FY86, FY87 and FY88)
was not clear, until the Bank received the PCR (Part II). Further, though ':
SAR was revised to reflect the drastic reduction in the loan amount from
US$111.0 million to US$21.0 million and the loan was renegotiated, no copy of
a revised SAR is available at the Bank. Moreover, both the Aide Memoire and
Form 590 are available only for the third 3upervijion Mission (February 1988),
and Supervision Reports for the remaining three missions are either partial or
not avrailable at all, several Terms of Reference (especially for the
supervision missions) are not available, and several Back-to-Office Reports
were either not writtern or are missing. Finally, Bank's Asia Information
Center has no rolodex cards on this loan and has no list of documents (other
than the folders containing correspondence) on its computer either. Bank
archives also had no documents on this loan except the subproject files.
11. Lessons
11.1      The main lessons learned or again confirmed, with implications to
other projects, are summarized below:
(a)  the on-lending interest rate under the Bar.k projects should be
market-oriented especially when the financial sector of a country is
reasonably free from interest rate distortions;
(b) when estimating demand for a line of credit project, the Bank should
take into account the possibility of significant changes from the
trends at the time of appraisal, particularly in small, export-
oriented countries;
(c)  the Bank should assign higher priority to its project documentation;
and
(d) successful experience of the project confirms that the Bank's
sustained involvement over the years in the institutional
development and strengthening of SMIs has been effective.



-8-
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
*   The Citizens National Bank
April 17, 1990
Mr. Inder K. Sud
Chief
Industry and Energy Operations
Division.
Country Department 11
Asian Regional Office
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S . A.
Be: ProJect Comoletion Renort on Loan 2515-2K0
Dear Mr. Sud:
We are pleased to submit a draft PCR on Loan 2515-2KO.
We hope that the attached documents will be useful to you in preparing PCR
on the captioned loan and please let us know if further information is needed.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
KiAHVang-seong-J
General Manager
International Department
Attach.: a/s
9-1, 2-KA.WANOAENMOON-RO.CHOONG-KU,SECUL,KOREA / POSTAL ADDRESS:C.P.O B0X 815 SEOUL.KOREA /
CABLE ADDRESS:CNBANK SEOUL/ TELEX:K23481 / TELEPHON:771-40 / FACSIMILE:757.3679.



- 9 -
1. INTRODUCTION*
1.01   Project Context.      The Citizens National Bank(CNB) was established on
February i, 1963 in accordance with the Citizens National Bank Act as a state-run
bank, to provide financial and to a limited extent, technical assistance to small-
scale industries(SSIs) and individual consumers. As compared with other financial
institutions engaged in the development of small and medium industries in Korea,
such as the Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK), CNB caters to smaller-sized businesses
engaged in manufacturing and services industries. 92i
CNB started its term lending operations to SSIs in August 1979 using the
proceeds of the first Asian Development Bank(ADB) loan of $10 million.
In April 1980 the Bank approved its first loan(Loan 1829-KO) to CNB for $30 million
to further support CNB's burgeoning foreign currency lending and development efforts
in the SSI sector. A second Bank loan (Loan 2144-KO) of $30 million was approved in
May 1982 on the basis of satisfactory experience under the first loan.          CNB was
designated as one of the channels of Bank Funds and received $10 million under the
Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project (Loan 2215-KO amounting to a total loan
amount of U$70 million) in December 1982 and $20 million under the Small and Medium
Industry Project (Loan 2515-KO amounting to total loan amount of U$21 million) in
October 1986.          Thus CNB has to date received a significant amount of foreign
currency resources from the Bank to support its term lending operations to the
small-scale industrial sector.       This PCR covers the achievements under the Small
and Medium Industry Project loan (Loan 2515-2KO), CNB's progress in strengthening
its  institutional  capability  during  the project period   and  focusses  on  the
performance of subprojects financed under the loan.
d)/   SSIs are defined (in the CNB Act of 1978) as:  (i) mining, manufacturing,
transport and banking e P'prises with 5 to 100 permanent workers;
(ii) construction, comb   ial and other service enterprises with 5 to
20 permanent workers. Currently the CNB Act includes an asset-based
definition of SSIs, namely: (i) mining, manufacturing, electricity, gas
and waterworks, transport, storage and communication, financing,
insurance, real estate and business services with less than 100 permanent
employees each or with less than W300 million total assets each; and
(ii) construction, retail and wholesal   rade, restaurants and hotels,
social and personal services with less than 20 permanent employees each
or with less than W50 million total assets ea *.
*    All Annexes except 1 to 5 and 11 are included under Part III, sometimes
with a slight modification in title of the table.



- 10 -
I . THEENVIRONMENT
The Industrial Sector
2.01       A rapid development of Korea's manufacturing sector has been the basis of
industrial progress since the early 1960s. Without strong support from manufacturing
sector, Korea could not have experienced growth in economy at the spectacular rates
witnessed since 1960s.          The technological sophistication acquired by Korea's
manufacturing industry in process of rapidly continuous growth enabled the country
to transform a rural and agriculture-dominated economy into a semi-industrial economy
and further into a industrial economy with diverse technological capabilities. The
contributions of the manufacturing sector to economic growth, employment and exports
in the last two decades, are summarized in the following table.
Structural Transformation of Korean Manufacturina Industry
(in per cent)
1    1961              1989
Share in GNP (Constant prices)                 8.3              31.3
Share in exports                              65.4(1965)        96.8(1988)
Share in employment (includes mining)          5.0              28.2
Dynamic growth has been led in particular by manufactured exports, which
primarily consisted of light industrial goods in the early 196Cs but today include
a diverse range of goods including steel products, electronics and chemicals.
2.02   In the period of rapid industrialization withnessed since 1960s growth was
the overriding criterion of resource allocation and balanced development among
social classes and sectors was neglected.
During the 1960s, Korea's development was associated with an interventionist
approach by Government whose key policies included: comprehensive export incentives;
an extensive system of directed, concessional credit; and substantial spending on
human and physical infrasturcture.   This approach was successful until the two oil
crisises in the 1970s when it was found that: the promotion of heavy and chemical
industries had led to an increase in debt and excess capacity; directed credit for
priority industries had crowded out a large numbers of companies, particularly SMIs
and forced them to resort to informal credit markets; and despite the continuous
emphasis on technology diffusion and technical training, a wide gap had emerged
between the capabilities of smaller companies and the larger corporate groups that
were the main focus of Government attention.



- 11 -
2.03         This predilection with "growth-first" policies generated interregional
disparities in growth which has emerged as a critical development issue in the
1980s. The imbalance in the industrial structure that resulted from these distortions
in 1970s are being corrected through a comprehensive set of industrial, financial,
trade and technology development policies in order to develop the manufacturing
structure in accordance with Korea's comparative advantage.          The Government has
articulated new industrial policies to correct these imbalances in the Fifth Five-
Year plan(1982-1986) and in the current Sixth Five-Year Plan(1987-1991). The Govern-
ment has indicated that it would no longer guide the economy to the state-preferred
sectors and projects by intervening in the resource allocation process. The Govern-
ment's declining role in the management of the industrial economy has, therefore,
implied that the private sector is assuming as higher degree of responsibility in
the identfication and implementation of project to suit the market conditions.
Barring any major external shocks, given these initiatives the prospects for further
industrial development are bright.
SMI Sector
2.04          Small and Medium Industries (SMIs), which are defined as having total
employees of not more than 700, depending on industries, with an assets ceiling of
W4 billion to W8 billion, have played a significant though declining role in Korea's
industrialization.    In 1963, SMIs accounted for 62Z of manufacturing jobs and 50%
of manufacturing value-added compared to 57% and 39%, respectively in 1987.
This decline occurred due to(a) the growth of successful SMIs into large-scale firms
takinig advantage of economies of scale; and (b) previous government policies which
hampered SMI access to credit and other needed resources.
2.05      Recognizing these problems, the Government's economic development policy
since 1980 has changed direction to promote small and medium industries intensively,
as the policy stresses the role of small and medium industries and the removal of
the disequilibrium caused by the past industrial policy which placed weight on the
heavy and chemical industries.   The policy has achieved some success for the small
and medium industries with facility modernization,enlargement of financial supports,
and the establishment of linkages with large firms.   This, however,  has not been
enough, thus the Government will continue to pursue such policy to promote small and
medium industries.  The Basic direction of policies for the development of small isazd
medium industries during the period of the Sixth Five-Year Economic and Social
Development Plan(1987-1991)will be to encourage these industries to be self-reliant
in their efforts to improve their competitiveness instead of giving them excessive
protection and special support.   To that end, emphasis will be placed on improving
their accessibility to bank credit and technological information as well as on
rectifying unfair trade conditions in their relationships with large firms.
2.06  Financial Assistance       Financial assistance to the SMI sector is provided
manily by two specialized banks, namely, the Industrial Bank of Korea and the
Citizens National Bank, as well as various non-specialized commercial institutions
including nationwide commercial banks and local banks.
The Industrial Bank of Korea was established by the Government as a financial
institution specializing in financing SMIs.    It is now authorized to finance SMIs
employing up to 300 employees. The Citizens National Bank was created in 1963 as a
Goverrment-invested banking institution aiming to upgrade the economic status of all
the people and of small scale enterprises by providing them with efficient financial
assistance. Tt is currently allowed to finance small industries employing up to 100
persons.



- 12 -
The specialized institutional framework for financing SMIs was complemented
in 1967 by a credit guarantee scheme administered by Industrial Bank of Korea.   In
1976 the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund was created as an autonomous insitution serving
the needs of both large and small enterprises.        The Korea Credit Guarantee Fund,
however, has been required to extend a minimum 40X of its guarantees to the SMI
sector.
There are also a number of non-specialized fiancial institutions which
serve the needs of industry irrespective of size. These institutions participate,
alongside the two government-owned specialized banks, in serving the SMI sector.
Commercial banks, short-term finance companies, foreign banks, leasing companies,
and the Korea Long-term Credit Bank all provide varying degrees of financial
support to the SMI sector.           In practice, however, only the commercial banks
(nationwide and local) have substartial lending operations for the SMI sector
because of their large resource base and loan portfolio.         In addition to their
normal operations, the government-owned specialized banks serving SMIs have been
used as a channel for administering a number of lending programs funded by the
Government to support SMIs.   As for the allocation for funds by commercial banks,
controls are exercised in the form of a mandatory requirement that nationwide and
local commercial banks channel at least 35% and 80X respectively of their increment
of general banking loan by domestic currency to the SMI sector.
Similarly, short-term finance companies are required to extend at least 35X of
their total amount of bills disrounted to the SMI sector.
The Long-term Credit Bank Act also requires that the Korea Long-term Credit
Bank allocate a certain percentage of its lending to the SMI sector.
A new source of financial assistance since 1979 is the Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Corporation which administers the Small and Medium Industry Promotion
Fund.    The fund dervies its resources from the Government, from borrowings and
from retained earnings.    The corporation allocates resources from this fund to
the Industrial Bank of Korea and the Citizens National Bank for onlending to SMIs
in accordance with specific development guidelines.



- 13 -
m11  CNB'S ROLE MD THE BANK LOAN OBJECTIVES
3.01    CNB's Role    As part of the Government's effort  to increase the flow of
institutional finance to the SMI sector, CNB was established in December 1962 under
the Citizens National Bank Act(CNB Act) and formally started its business operations
in Feburary '963.    The Act empowers it to mobilize savings from the general public
for ec-nomic development and to provide broad-based financial services for consumers
and small businesses.    As of December 31, 1989, CNB's authorized and paid-in share
capital were f500 billion and W96 billion respectively.
The authorized capital was increased from f100 billion with amendment of the CNB Act
in December, 1989.      The Government is the major shareholder accounting for 72.6X
the share capital; the remaining shares are held by private commercial banks (20.9X),
Government Pension Management Corporation (6.4X), and CNB's Workers Committee and
individuals (0.1X).      The Ministry of Finance(MOF) excercises overall control over
CNB's policies(MOF approval is needed for the amendment of Operating Manuals, the
establishment of branches, changes in senior Management, etc.), while the Bank of
Korea(BOK) supervises CNB's commercial banking activities under the General Banking
Act.      Subject to these overall controls and supervision, CNB enjoys autonomy in
conducting its business activities.
3.02     As a specialized state-owned commercial bank, CNB provides a wide range of
of banking services to its customer and small business clientele.    These services
include taking savings and time deposits, lending in local and foreign currencies
for both working capital and investment, extending overdraft, discounting bills,
providing foreign exchange and credit card services, guarantees in local and foreign
currencies, and other banking services.
CNB's target group overlaps with that of IBK. CNB operates for and in the household
sector and the SSI sector, while IBK caters basically to the SMI sector which
includes SSIs.     While both CNB and IBK are allowed, by their respective acts, to
finance projects employing up to 100 persons, IBK alone may finance projects
employing up to 300 persons. The overlap in institutional roles between CNB and IBK,
however, has been intended by policy makers and has in fact improved access of SMIs
of various sizes to institutional finance through CNB's broad branch network.
Moreover, to ensure that CNB's operations and assistnace are primarily focussed on
SSIs in particular and small loans in general, there is a statutory ceiling imposed
by the Government on loans extended by CNB to a single enterprise, beyond which
specific approval of the Government is required.
Effective March 1987, for a SSI borrower, the maximum assistnace in local currency
loans has been restricted, except serveral special cases,to W500 million for working
capital loans and for equipment loans respectively.    In addition to its financing
role, CNB has undertaken diverse promotional activities including an information
services desk offering professional advice to customers on administrative affairs,
accounting, taxation and other financial matters; lending at preferential interest
rate to SSIs with good growth potentials; conducting surveys and research studies
on performance of SSIs, etc.
In 1984, with a view to providing the financial service of facility financing for
SMIs, CNB established the CNB Leasing Co., Ltd. as a subsidiary. It was followed
by the Citizens Technology and Finance Co., Ltd. in 1986 which was established to
expedite new technology development among SMIs.
3.03    Obiectives of the Bank Loan         The Bank Loan to CNB(2515-2KO) signed in
1986 was aimed to:  (a) support the continued insitutional development of CNB, one
of the main term lending institutions serving small and medium industries in Korea;
(b) finance the implementation of productive industrial projects by small and
medium scale enterprises.



- 14 -
N.  UTILIZATION OF THE LOAN
Loan Utilization
4.01   The loan proceeds were utilized, on the whole, smoothly as expected and there
were no problems of commitments and disbursements.
At the time of appraisal of subprojects, it was envisaged that 52.5% of the loan
amount would be disbuirsed by Dec.1987 and 100% by Dec.1988.        These estimates
proved to be reasonably accurate.                            Actually $10.2 million
or 51.0% of the loan amount was disbursed by Dec.1987, reaching $19.8 million or
99.0X by June 1989.    On CNB's request, the Bank cancelled a residual amount of
unused fund($199,059.39); the loan was closed on July 18, 189 before the scheduled
date of Dec.31, 1989. 1/
Subborrower Characteristics
4.02     CNB caters to the needs of small-scale industries which are defined in the
CNB Act and other supplemental regulations and expressed in terms of number of
employees or total asset size. To ensure access of the smallest firms to the Bank
fund, it was agreed during athe negotiations of the loan (Loan 2515-2KO) that a
minimum of 50% of the loan proceeds would be onlent to subproject employing no more
than 50 workers or whose total assets do not exceed f250 million. Data presented in
Annex 7 show that CNB has lived up to this commitment satisfactorily.    Under Loan
2515-2KO about 80.9% of the loan amount were for enterprises with less than 50
workers or with W250 million or less.
Therefore, employment condition of the loan indicates CNB's success in catering to
the needs of smaller SSIs.
Suburo iect Characteristics
4.03       Annex 6 through 10  give details  of  the subprojects financed under Loan
2515-2KO. The proceeds of the loan(Loan 2515-2KO) were allocated to 146 subprojects,
with an average size of $135,622,  of which six or 4% of the loan amount were  "A"
subprojects(above the free limit of $0.4 million).2/ These 6 "A" subprojects were
submitted to IBRD for prior review and approval.
4.04       The total investment cost of subprojects,  except those prepaid  so far,
financed under Loan 2515-2K0 amounted to f19,335 million of which CNB financed an
average 65.52 including the 50.1% contributed by the Bank funds.        CNB had been
reasonably accurate in its cost calculations, as evidenced by the fact that on
the whole CNB's subprojects experienced a cost overrun of 0.26%.    Cost overruns
were largely attributed to adjustments in project scale necessitated by rapidly
expanding markets.        Cost underruns,  more in number than cost overruns, were
frequently due to overestimation of permanent working capital requirements. Cost
overruns were generally covered by either CNB's own resources or those of the
project proponents.    Estimates of project completion dates were also reasonably
accurate, with the exception of 48 (out of 1ll except those prepaid) subprojects
(43.2% of the total number of subprojects) whose completion was delayed by 1 to 7
months.    The reasons for the delays were varied but usually involved delays in
procurement and delivery/installation of imported equipment.   The procurement of
imported equipment which is based mostly on limited competitive bidding, involving
at least 2 bidders, has been heavily concentrated on Japanese suppliers who were
selected for 84 out of 146 subprojects and received 53.6% of total foreign currency
expenditures. The other sources are much less significant; procurement from West
Germany comes a distant second accounting for 14.5% of foreign expenditures; USA,
8.6%; local procurement, 7.0%; Italy, 10.1%; and Switzerland and France just
over 4.7%.
1/ According to the Bank records, the loan was closed on June 30, 1989.
2/ CNB's annexes suggest 7 instead of 6 "A" type Subprojects.



- 15 -
4.05 In keeping with the Loan Agreement covenant which requires that no less than
$10 million or 50X of the funds under Loan 2515-KO should be allocated to sub-
projects outside the city of Seoul, CNB approved 86 subprojects(58.91 of total)
located outside Seoul for an aggregate subloan amount of $13.4 million or 67.7X
of tie total loan proceeds $19.8 million. Although this fulfills the loan covenant,
Seoul continues to attract the single largest number (41.1X) and amount (32.3X) of
subprojects under the loans.             This is due mainly to better- infrastructure
facilities, better banking and other business services and proximity to the main
markets.
4.06 Annex 6 show the sectoral, size and type distribution of subprojects financed
under the Loan.        Because of no specific agreement on the allocation of the loan
proceeds, the sectoral distribution of subprojects financed under the Loan generally
followed the sectoral pattern of CNB's overall lending in the SSI sector.
Manufacturing subprojects accounted for 91.7% of the number and 93.31 of the total
loan amount; within the manufacturing sector, food and beverage industries, textile
and garments industries were leading subsectors with 34.41 of the total subloan
amount. Metal manufacturing industries came next with 48 subprojects accounting for
31.81 of the loan amount, paper and printing (10.2%), chemicals (9.8X) and others
included nometallic minerals wood products, basic metals for the rest.
Construction service and transport industries comprised the rest subsectors outside
of manufacturing with 6.7X of the total loan amount.
4.07      The majority(116 out of 146) of subprojects financed under the Bank Loan
accounting for 73.0X of the loan amount were for expansion purposes.    It appears
that in the face of a rapidly expanding market at home CNB's client companies
preferred to simply add to existing capacity rather than to retool or modernize
production facilities at great expense to cope with market demand.           Moreover,
although nearly half of the number of subprojects were new subprojects, they
accounted for 22.0X of the total subloan amount, reflecting CNB's cautious approach
of providing its foreign currency lending to new enterprises.   Only 5 subprojects
(out of 146) accounting for 4.91 of the Bank loan were classified as replacement/
modernization subprojects.
Operational and Rcontomic Performance of SubDrojects
4.08   Onerational Performance         In formation on the operational performance of
subprojects financed under the Bank Loan is presented in Annex 8. Since there are
so many subprojects, even though systematic monitoring of CNB's clients' operational
performance was established, most of these operational data have not been verified
by CNB staff.      As reported by CNB's clients,  total sales generated  from  111
subprojects(except those prepaid so far) financed under the loan amounted to W166.7
billion during the first two years of operation, while sales estimates prepared by
CNB staff totaled to W167.4 billion during the same period, indicating thrt original
estimates were reasonably accurate.
4.09   As measured by their profitability, the financial performance of subprojects
was also satisfactory. Out of 111 subprojects(except those prepaid so far) financed
under the Bank Loan reporting on their profit performance, only eight actually
sustained losses during the first or second year, or both years of operation.
Reported profit levels for subprojects , financed under the Loan, were lower than
originally estimated, W4,340 million for the first year of operation compared with
forecasts of W4,893 million, and however W6,492 million in the second year of
operation or 0.41 higher than estimates of W6,467 million.            Deposite actual
profits being lower than forecasts, the level of profits was, at the early stage of



16 -
operation, sufficiently high enough to cover debt service obligation to CNB, and
the repayment performance of subborrowers involved was, at the early stage of
operation, excellent as well.   As show   Annex 10, suibprojects finianced under the
Bank Loan have only 4 subborrowers with arrears.3/In terms of return on net worth,
17.1% of the subprojects  financed under the loan  had returns ranging from 20-30%
and 24.3% of the subprojects over 30% in the first year on operation.         For the
second year of operation, 28.8% of the subprojects realized net returns of 20-30%
and 25.2% had returns on net worth of over 30% showing that CNB's estimates were
reasonahly accurate.
4.10  Economic Performance   Annex 9 represents some of the economic indicators of
CNB's subprojects financed under the Bank Loan.    CNB systematically monitors the
economic performance of subprojects CNB own in terms of their capacity utilization,
foreign exchange and revenue generation / savings, value-added contibution and
employment creation.    In addition, CNB calculates FRR and ERR on all subprojects
above the free limit (as required under the Loan Agreement).   However, it had niot
been easy to verify the accuracy of some of the data on actual performance submitted
by clients who, for the most part, are being required to submit economic reports
on their operations for the first time.       Nevertheless random checking by CNB of
the data in Annex 9 indicates that the subprojects financed under the Loan have
done moderately well in terms of the above indicators.
4.11      In terms of employment creation, CNB staff expected that 111 subprojects
(except those prepaid so far) financed under the Bank Loan would generate direct
(incremental) employment for 532 persons.4/         This estimate implied an average
investment cost of about W36.4 million for each additional person employed.
The actual employment generation was W1,320 new jobs at an investment cost-per-job
of W36.3 million.   Random verification by CNB of estimates of value-added(W21,190
million in the first year of operation and W30,895 million in the second year of
operation) and of capacity utilization shows CNB's own subproject appraisal estimates
to be generally accruate.
3/ CNB's Annex indicate 3 (and not 4) Subprojects.
4/ CNB's Annex indicate that 37 (an. not 35 as implied here) Subprojects were prepaid.
.  .~~~~~~~~



- 17 -
V.  INSTIMIONAL ASPE(CS
Organization. Nanagement and Staffing
5.01 The overall control of CNB's operations is vested in its Board of Directors.
CNB's broad policy matters are set by its board of Directors.  While CNB's day-to-
day business is run by the Executive Committee consisting of the President, Deputy
President, Auditor and 9 Executive Vice Presidents. Five of the EVP is functionally
responsible and accountable for head office departments while the remaining four
member is in charge of regional headquarters which were established for the purpose
of effective business activities in the region through decentralization of head
office function.          CNB's branches are linked directly to the Electronic Data
Processing Department in the head office by an on-line computer system using private
telephone lines.
5.02    Since appraisal of the Bank loan, CNB has undertaken serval organizational
changes to streamline operations, improve efficiency through specialization, upgrade
corporate planning and strengthen loan management.              Currently, CNB has 17
departments in its head office including 9 regional Headquarters.          In order to
ircrease its contact with small businesses throughout the country, a number of
branches and subbranches were increased from 252 at the end of 1986 to 290 at the
end of 1989.       And the bank opened 3 representative offices  in Tokyo  in 1986,
in New York in 1988, and in London in 1989, in order to cope positively with the
ever-changing international financial environment, to introduce up-to-date financial
techniques and to provide small business with a wide range of international
financial service.         With  respect to foreign currency lending,  Foreign Loan
Department was merged into International Department effective September 8,1987, in
line with rearrangement of its organization for the purpose of upgrading operational
effeciency though coordination and reorganization of the functions of some
departments including Foreign Loan Department.    In fact, Foreign Loan Department
had delegated branches supervision authorities on subprojects in several times.
Furthermore, on January 1, 1987 CNB designated all branches as foreign subloan
branches with aims to expedite foreign fund utilization and raise efficiency of
supervision upon subprojects, so that all branches of CNB are authorized to make a
foreign subloan  in an amount of  not more than  U$100,000 and to take supervision
supervision activities on subprojects.    On the whole, the organizational changes
that took place during the project period, appear quite adequate and appropriate.
CNB's current(as of December 31, 1989) Organization Chart is presented in Annex.4
5.03    During the project period 1986-1989, CNB gradually increased and developed
its staff in line with the expansion of its operations. CNB's staff increased from
10,714(including 2,355 professionals) at the end of 1986 to 12,547(4ncluding 2,977
professionals) at the end of 1989, an increase of about 17X overall and about  26%
in the professional staff over the period. During the same period, CNB's volume of
lending operations and total assets increased considerably and thus the increase
in staff was justified.       CNB recruits its staff from college graduates through
competitive examinations. Upon appointment, each staff member goes through a period
of classroom and on-the-job training in various parts of the bank including the
where nearly 90X of staff are assigned. Through competitive salaries and benefits
as well as well-rounded training prograa(.n-house and overseas for selected staff)
CNB has managed to keep a low staff turnover averaging 4.01 during 1986-1989; for
proffessional staff, the turnover averaged just 2.51 p.a. over the last four year.
CNB has been able to oaintain a core of experienced staff adequate to support its
growing operations.



- 18 -
5.04      For its foreign currency lending operations, the International Financing
Division and Foreign Loan Operation Division in International Department, have a
staff of 20 including 8 professionals, headed by two experienced managers who have
risen from the ranks within CNB. As CNB designated all branches as foreign subloan
branches, it is required in-house training prepared by Foreign Loan Operation
Division for the staff assigned to foreign currency loans. In 1981, CNB established
its own seperate training center.       Since then, CNB has been conducting similiar
training programs covering, inter alia, all aspects of the project cycle(identifi-
cation, appraisal, implementation and follow-up). However, CNB's training capacity
can not fully meet the needs of its extensive branch network for project evaluation
officers.        CNB addresses this trainibg problem by sending staffs nn overseas
training, including those conducted by ADB, ADFIAP and EDI and by recruiting
experienced personnel.      However, there was still a need for additional in-house
training on term lending operations, supplemented by short overseas study tours to
familiarize CNB officials with the latest trend in development banking and practices.
In order to meet that need, CNB set up an ultra-modern Training and Education Center
equipped with training and education facilities in the outskirts of Seoul in fall
1987.
5.05    Proiect Annraisal          In assessing  CNB's appraisal capability,  it is
important to note that CNB's loan processing and project selection have been and
are still determined by predominantly commercial considerations, focussing on
subborrower's creditworthiness, collecteral, credit repayment record and client's
reputation in the community.       it is partly due to CNB's strong emphasis on and
cautiousness about the latter two criteria that CNB's loan partfolio, which consists
of loans to large number of small, widely dispersed and often unsophisticated
clients, has remained sound. Moreover, about 70% ef CNB's subloans are short-term
loans and the average size is so small that an elaborate project analysis would be
impractical.     Appraisal standards for short-term working capital and short-term
equipment loans in local currency appear satisfactory as evidenced by the low level
of arrears on these loans.
5.06        For the appraisal of long-term equipment loans in local currency, loai
applications are processed by branches with technical assistance (when needed due
to lack of technical manpower at the branch level) from the Credit Analysis Division
and the Extension Services Division at the Head Office.   While in theory the same
feasibility criteria and standards that are applied to foreign currency loans should
apply to local currency term loans, in practice the project analysis on the latter
is generally less rigorous partly because tney are not always reviewed for final
approval by the Head Office or by outside agencies like the Bank and ADB and partly
because commercial considerations continue to be the main criteria for project
selection.
5.07          This is not the case, however, in the case of foreign currency loans
where CNB's organizational systems and best staff are brought to bear on project
evaluation and selection. For foreign currency loans, appraisal procedures involve
a two-step process whereby credit analysis covering market, financial and technical
aspects of the subproject is undertaken first by the credit analysis division of
the branch or the Small and Medium Enterprises Supporting Department.
After this credit analysis is completed in detail, the staff who are assigned to
foreign currency loans in the branch then analyze the feasibility of the whole
project, considering its economic, financial, technical and market merits. At time
of appraisal of the second Bank loan, appraisal of subprojects was centralized at
the Head office to ensure the quality of subloans.   To stimulate participation of
branches in foreign currency term lending activities(thereby further broadening
its clientele base) and to speed up subproject processing, CNB started to delegate
branches to undertake preliminary selection of subprojects in 1982 and designate
all branches as foreign subloan branches in 1987.    However, appraisal reports of



- 19 -
all subloans over U$100,000 are subject to re-examination and approval by staff
of the International Department at the Head Office.          The appraisal of foreign
currency loans thus involves the combined skills of several staff members from
different departments.  Appraisal standards have remained high.   Through periodic
field supervision missions and subproject appraisal review by Banh staff at Head-
quarters, the Bank has been instrumental in raising the standards of CNB's apprai-
sal.
5.08   Project SuDervision    CNB's supervision procedures are effective.  Primary
responsibility for supervision of local currency equipment loans rests with branches
whose supervisory staff keeps close contact with clients, not only whern they make
loan installments, but also when the same clients make their savings deposits.
Thus the deposit taking role of CNB is used as an effective tool not only for
raising funds but also keeping contact with clients.   For foreign currency loans,
supervision responsibility rests with FLD staff at time of appraisal of the second
Bank loan. However, since FLD started to delegate branches supervision authorities
on subprojects in 1984, the branches supervise subprojects within their areas of
responsibility and this is also done through regular visits to project sites by
branch staff, and close monitoring of operational and financial statements (which
are submitted periodically by subborrowers). Supervision of subproject implementation
is done by regular visits by CNB staff, obligatory periodic reporting by clients
on operational and financial performance, and a systematic monitoring of credit
transactions by branch staff.        After project completion, projects are normally
visited at least once a year (With projects facing difficulties being visited more
often).    Follow-up visits are carried out regularly and their findings which are
well documented are reported to branch managers and in some casee   to appropriate
departments in the Head Office (e.g. Extension Ser'0ces Division for technical
assistance  or  the Loan Collection Department,  whir'  would arrange any required
assistance at the project level in the region).



- 20 -
. ORATIONAL AND FINMCIAL PERFO NCE OF CM
Onerational Performance
6.01   Lending Onerations    CNB's lending operations consist of loans to business
enterprises (business loans) and to consumers (general populace loans).   Business
loans are made up of working capital loans in local currency  and  equipment loans
in local and foreign currency.   General populace loans are small loan extended to
individuals for purchase of consumer goods and services including low-cost house,
home furnishings, hospitalization, school tuition, etc. During the period of 1986-
1989.   CNB's total loan approvals increased by 61 per cent (averaging 15.3% p.a),
below the projected level. In contrast with this steady rise in total loan approvals,
actual approvals of working capital loans increased sharply from W1,231.3 billion
to W2,083.7 billion, and thus reached the levels where CNB had expected, in
accordance with the policy to strengthen its main lending operations to the SSI
sector and due to the need to finance accumulated inventories in the current
economic condition. However, actual approvals of equipment loans, which decreased
from W86 billion in 1986 to W66 billion in 1989, fell below the projections.
For foreign currency equipment loans, actual approvals during 1986-1989
increased very slightly except in 1989 mostly due to the surplus of the nation's
Current Account and Partly due to the exceeding of the national saving over national
investment during the period.   CNB's loan portfolio increased from W3,065 billion
in 1986 to W4,800 billion in 1989 at an average annual growth rate of 19 per cent,
compared with the projected 26 per cent.    The portfolio on average accounted for
about 55 per cent of CNB's total assets.    However,  the share of equipment loans
in the portfolio was insignificant, accounting for about 4 per cent on the average.
These loans were well diversified sectorally.
6.02   Other ODerations       CNB has prudently used its other financial operations
to strengthen its main lending operations to the SSI sector.         These operations
include short-terms guarantee operations, investments in securities and call money
market (the latter two are essentially done to manage liquidity).    Most of CNB's
investments are generally made in government and quasi-government bonds and to a
much lesser extent private sector stocks and bonds.         Investments in securities
have increased rapidly and call money operations have fluctuated unevenly with the
availablity of liquid funds.
CNB's guarantee operations are made under the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund (KCGF)
whose guidelines emphasize financial, economic, and managerial aspects, as compared
with  only  collateral requirements  of  the project.    Thus guarantee operations
enhance  CNB's  project evaluation capability.   The amount of guarantees expanded
significantly during the project period due to the growth of CNB's international
business and increased demand for payment and collateral guarantees from the SSI
sector. CNB has made a few equity investments (some at Government request) in the
past, but it has not undertaken further equity participations after establishing
in 1986 the Citizens Technology and Finance Co., Ltd. a wholly owned venture
capital company of CNB.
Resource Mobilization
6.03     Since its inception,  CNB has been very successful in mobilizing domestic
resources through deposits, primarily from the household sector and small businesses.
Over the years, CNB has built up a fairly stable deposit base of about N4 million
deposit accounts.       With  an  exclusive right to operate the Mutual Installment
Savings Remuneration Scheme(MISRS) from 1963 to 1983, through its wide branch
network, and high staff institutional efficiency, CNB has been able to mobilize
substantial domestic resources within a relatively short period of time.    During
the project period(1986-1989), short-term deposits, whiLh constitute the bulk (65X
in 1989) of domestic resources, rose from W2,638 billion at the end of 1986 to



- 21 -
W4,912 billion at the end of 1989, which medium-and long-term deposits led by MISRS
savings deposits increased from W1,813 billion to W2,607 billion.
6.04       CNB's mobilization of foreign currency resources has been less dramatic
mainly due to slower demand for foreign currency loans and institutional constraints
on CNB's ability to tap alternative sources of foreign exchange. During 1979-1986,
CNB relied mainly on the ADB and the IBRD for its foreign currency resources.
However, since 1986 due to Korea's surplus balance of payment situation, low
interest rates and the availability of cheaper funds from alternative sources,
foreign currency loans from official sources(i.e. IBRD and ADB) turned out to be
non-competitive, which led to CNB's partial cancellation of U$33 million of ADB IE
loan.   Similarly, the Bank's SMI project loan (2515-KO) to IBK and CNB (for U$110
million) approved  in April 1985,  was  signed only  in late 1986,   with the loan
portion for CNB being reduced from U$40 million to U$20 million, and was effective
in January 1987.   In 1987, in an effort to diversify its foreign currency funding
sources, CNB was able to obtain a loan of M3.1 billion (U$20 million equivalent)
from the Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) at an interest rate of
4.25 per cent p.a..    In 1989, CNB induced the second Loan of 4-6.2 billion (U$50
million equivalent) from the Fund at a low interest rate of 4.0% p.a..    However,
there is still some scope for expanding foreign currency lending and CNB would
have to raise additional foreign currency resources to finance that expansion.
CNB intends to raise all of its requirements from commercial or bilateral sources.
It is expected that the Government will expedite further liberalization of the
financial sector. Therefore, as the government will greatly reduce its regulatory
functions and transfer gradually to the private sector in the near future, (iNB's
success in raising foreign exchange funds from the market in or out of the nation
would depend strongly on institutional factors(e.g., CNB's ability to maintain the
excellent quality of its portfolio, continued operational and management efficiency,
success in broadening its capital base, etc.) and Government policy.
Financial performance
6.05    Financial Position       A comparison of CNB's projected and audited balance
sheets for the period 1986-1989 is given in Annex 8.         CNB's financial condition
remained satisfactory throughout the period. Its total assets increased considerably
from W5,355.4 billion at the end of 1986 to W8,941.7 billion at the end of 1989.
Total assets actually increased by 18.6% p.a.. over the period, lower than annual
growth rate of about 22% projected at appraisal.
The increase of W3,592 billion in total assets between 1986 and 1989 was financed
by short-term liabilities (73%), medium-and long-term liabilities (24%) and equity
(3%) as compared with the projected 58%, 34% and 8%. CNB has been notably sucessful
in mobilizing local currency deposits --- W4,451 billion in 1986 rising to W7,519
billion 1989.
Local currency loans consistantly constitute more than 53 per cent of CNB's total
assets which liquid assets (cash, deposits with banks, securities and call loans)
accounted for about 25 per cent. About 75% of CNB's total assets had been financed
by short-term funds, while long-term loans were consistantly about 70 per cent of
the long-term funds available, implying that oni the one hand CNB had been sucess-
fully mobilizing domestic resources through deposit taking (65 per cent of which
were short-term) but on the other it had been using short term funds to meet the
shortfall in long-term resources. However, it is assured that although short-term
deposits formed a major portion of its resources, these deposits actually tend to
be long-term as they were often renewed on expiry dates.



- 22 -
6.06    Profitability       Annex 13 shows comparison of CNB's projected and actual
income statements which illustrates CNB's desirable financial performance. During
1986-1989 CNB enjoyed considerable operating profits.   CNB's net income increased
from W13.8 billion in 1986 to W44.5 billion in 1989. Net income increased by about
50 per cent annually over the period from 1986 to 1989.
This remarkable profitability resulted from (a) upward lending rates allowed by
government's liberalization  of Interest rates   (b)  increasing volume of working
capital loans and extensive use of mechanism such as bill discounting and overdrafts
genevating higher profit margins, and (c) efforts to restrain the increase of
administrative expenses. The combined effect of these factors helped improve CNB's
interest and earning spread, and thus enabled CNB to make a profit of W13.8 billion
in 1986, W28.9 billion in 1987, W32.6 billion in 1988 and W44.5 billion in 1989,
respectively.   CNB's profitability is also expected to remain satisfactory in the
coming year.
6.07     The profit incurred between 1986-1989 strengthened CNB's equity resulting
in a long-term debt / equity ratio of 6.6:1 at end of 1986, 5.4:1 at end of 1987,
4.9:1 at end of 1988, and 4.3:1 at end of 1989 respectively, keeping the stipulated
limit of 10:1.    However, CNB's equity structure is relatively weak in comparison
with similar banking institutions in Korea. It is considered essential to enlarge
CNB's capital base in order to positively cope with the liberalization trend in
financial sector and daily-intensified competition among the financial institutions.
Recognizing this problem, the government increased CNB's authorized capital
from W100 billion to W500 billion with amendment of CNB Act in December, 1989.
Quality of Loan Portfolio
6.08   As shown in Annex 16 and 17, CNB's reported collection performance has been
highly satisfactory and the quality of its loan portfolio very sound, considering
the large number (about one million small businesses and individuals) of generally
small size accounts and wide geographic dispersion of clients. At the end of 1989,
collection rates (for both principal and interest) averaged 98.7% compared with
97.6% in 1984. Collection rates on local currency loans are the highest at nearly
99.0%.    However, due to high foreign exchange risk exposure, collection rates on
foreign currency loans are relatively low at 80-90%. As a result of this excellent
collection performance, total arrears of principal as of end of 1989 represented
only 0.8% of the amount of total loan amounts outstanding: whereas loans affected
by arrears represented 8.1% of loan amounts outstanding.        The bulk of principal
payment in arears falls in the 1-3 month category. Rescheduled amounts constituted
a relatively small portion of loans outstanding. Loans written off, which are more
than fully covered by provisions, are neg]igible.    CNB's sound portfolio quality
and high collection rates can be attributed primarily to prudent project selection,
frequent and regular contact with clients at the branch level, particularly
delinquent ones, and a monitoring and supervision system that provides in most
cases an early warning of potential debt service problems.   Secondarily, the fact
that 50% of CNB's loans to the SMI sector are contracted under the MISRS and
therefore are fully secured and that the rest of CNB's subborrowers also keep
deposit accounts which can be debited automatically to cover loan repayment are
contributory factors leading to a sound loan protfolio quality.



- 23 -
VI. CONCLUSIONS
7.01   The implementation of the Small and Medium Industry Project loan (2515-2K0)
to CNB was generally smooth and the resources allocation objectives of CNB under
the loan were achieved satisfactorily. Any significant delays were not encountered
in the project cycle. Although the actually disbursed loan proceeds were relatively
small in relation to the total demand for term funds from the SSI sector in Korea,
and in relation to CNB's total portfolio during the project period, the entire
proceeds accrued to small-scale industries (i.e., firms with no more Lnan W500
million in total assets or more than 100 employees) and produced significant
economic, financial and operational benefits for the SSI beneficiaries.   In terms
of resource transfer, therefore, the Bank-financed project has been a sucess.
However,  since 1986,  due to  Korea's surpLus  balance of payment situation,  low
interest rates, and the availability of cheaper funds, from alternative sources,
foreign currency loans from official sources(i.e., the ADB and IBRD) turned out to
be non-competitive, which resulted in considerable number of beneficiaries to be
prepaid earlier than the original schedule.
7.02    In terms of its institution-building objectives which are of a longer-term
and continuing nature, CNB is also making good progress in strengthening its
capability to undertake term lending aimed at developing the SSI sector.         Under
the project, CNB systematically calculated ERRs (and FRRs) on the larger-sized
subloans and this loan condition more than any other factor may have increased CNB's
awareness of the need to take into account the full economic feasibility of a
subproject in addition to its financial and technical merits ( which CNB staff are
familiar with in their commercial lending operations).
At the recommendation of the Bank made through regular supervision and detailed
review of 6 "A" subprojects, CNB's project appraisal, particularly of the economic,
market and technical aspects of subprojects, has improved.2/ Now CNB applies the
same appraisal techniques and standards to term loans in local and foreign currency,
and is training staff at all bra.ches how to do feasibility-based project appraisal.
This staff training needs to be accelerated and expanded, in order to allow CNB's
institutional capacity for term lending to grow.
7.03 CNB's financial conditions has remained sound. That CNB's resource position,
debt servicing capability and portfolio quality have remained sound is attributable
to CNB's strong management, judicious project selection and close supervision.
With favorable interest rate changes in 1984 and with continued contribution by the
Government to CNB's paid-in capital from 1986 to 1989, the long-term debt/equity
ratio was successfully scaled down to 8.2:1 in 1987.    As CNB's equity structures
is relatively weak compared with similiar institutions in Korea, it is considered
essential to enlarge CNB's capital base in order to positively cope with the
liberalization trend in financial sector and daily-intensified competition among
the financial institutions.   Therefore, CNB's authorized capital was increased to
W500 billion from W100 billion with the amendment of CNB Act in Dec. 1989. As a
result, its paid-in capital is expected to be increased substantially in near future.
2/ (Repeated).  CNB's Annexes sugaest 7 instead of 6   "A" type Subprojects.



- 24 -
(xp    o  1I11  =  l > J  27-2, YEOEUIDO-DONG. YEONGDEUNGPO-GU, SEOUL, KOREA TEL: 783.9611 TELEX SMCKO K25642 FAX 784- 92
Mr. Hossein Razavi                            April 4, 1990
Acting Chief
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II, Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Razavi,
We are pleased to enclose the Project Completion Report (PCR)
Part II of the Small and Medium Industry Project(Loan 2515-1KO).
We believe that the technical assistance almost fulfilled the
SMI Project's purpose of upgrading SMI's skill capability and
improving SMI's productivity at plant level.
We hope that this report could be helpful to your preparation
of the complete PCR.
Yours sincerely,
Hong Kyun, KIM
Vice President
SMIPC
Encls.



- 25 -
I. Introduction
1.1       The Small and Medium Industry Project (Loan No. 2515-KO) which was
signed on October 29, 1986 according to successful performance of the Small
and Medium Machinery Industry Project (Loan No. 2215-KO) was closed on
December 31, 1988 actually earlier one year prior to the projected end year.
The SMI Project was carried out by Small and Medium Industry Promotion
Corporation (SMIPC) as a execution agency under the Loan and Project
Agreement.
1.2       The technical assistance component is to provide consulting services
for small and medium manufacturers so as to upgrade their skill capability and
improve their productivity at the plant level by using existing facilities
more effectively.
1.3       In addition, the overseas training component also consists of
providing overseas training opportunities to enhance the technical and
managerial capability of SMIPC staff who has to conduct extension services and
SMI's employees who are in charge of production line.
II. Proiect Objectives
A.   Technical Assistance
2.1       To upgrade the skill level of small and medium enterprises and to
improve their productivity by using existing technology at the plant level by
short-term technical consulting services so as to result in followings:
(a) quality improvement;
(b) cost reduction;
(c) competitiveness both in the domestic and international markets; and
(d) contribution to the development of new products.
B.   Overseas Training
2.2       To provide the training opportunities to SMIPC and small and medium
industries staff in areas such as quality control, industrial safety and new
products development through following ways:
(a) technique and management training of SMIPC staff in advanced
countries;
(b) participating in seminars concerning up-to-date technology and
management; and
(c) visiting factories for study in advanced countries.



- 26 -
III. Technical Assistance Results
A.   Yearly Planning and Achievement
3.1       The 10.3 percent increase rate from 18.5 M/M in 1987 to 20.4 M/M in
1988 was shown in technical assistance component by foreign consultants.
3.2       In 1987, 92.5 percent achievement rate little short of the planning
recorded, and achievement rate in 1988 recorded 102 percent over the planning.
There was no result of technical assistance through SMI Loan in 1989, because
SMI Loan (No. 2515-K0) was substituted to domestic resources (see below).
(Unit: M/U)
Year            Planning         Achlvemnt       Achievwn.nt Rate
1987               20               t8.6               92.6
1988               20               20.4              102.0
1989               10                -                  0.0
TOTAL        60                88.9              77.8
3.3       To refer to nationality, most of technicians are Americans which
amounted to 45.0 percent. Next are Japanese and West Germans (2.1 MHM) (See
Part III).
3.4       And as looking by industrial sector, SHI Project (2515-K0) which
amounted to 86 cases of extension services recorded 36 cases also in the field
of chemical industry in contrast with machinery industry of SMMIP (2215-K0)
(See Part III).
B.   Consultants Invited
3.5       The number of consultants invited during 1987-88 amounted 64 persons
as shown in Part III.
3.6       Japanese conoultants were invited most of all.  As for services days
per consultant in comparison with numbers of consultants invited by
nationality, American and European consultants were shown as having served
more days than Japanese did comparatively.
3.7       And the analysis by consulting field shows that SMI Project also
emphasized on the other field than machinery field and recorded 29.7 percent
of total in the field of chemistry especially (See Part III).



27
IV. Overseas Training Results
A.   Summary
4.1       Overseas training component as well as technical assistance
component achieved 94.1 percent little short of the planning. Also this
component was complemented one year ahead of the planning.  The details are
shown below:
1967             1986             1989               Totel
Achieve-         chieve-         Achl-ve-          Aehleve-
Division     Planning   mnt  Planning   mnt  Planning   Mont   Planning   ment
SMIPC taff      -       2        8       15      28       -       81      17
(peron)
(M/M)         (-)      (8.6)  (80)      (66 .)  (60)    (-)     (80)      (72.3)
SM. mployee    -        1                 1       a       -       6        2
(team)
(M/U)         (-)    (16.7)  (10)        (6.1)   0)     (-)     (20)     (21.6)
TOTAL (M/M)  (-)    (19.2)  (40)     (74.9)   0)      (-)    100)      (94 .1)
B. SMIPC Staff Trainina
4.2       Twelve engineers of SMIPC from 1987 through 1988 were dispatched
abroad to undertake their program in eight fields.
The fact that training field is mainly automation field reflects
changes of Korean industrial structure in the future.
Besides, 4 staff completed short visit training program in advanced
countries during the same period (See Part III).
Most of trainees were mainly dispatched to America, West Germany and
France (See Part III). The training period is mostly between 1 month and 3
months (See Part III).
V. Budget Inputs
5.1       A loan of US$1,000,000 was contracted for SHI Project on October 29,
1986. Until actual closing date of December 31, 1988, SD568,432 out of the
total loan was withdrawn for two years and the remaining balance of US$431,568
was requested to cancel by SMIPC. That was because domestic resources were
allocated for the project. The details are shown below:



- 28 -
(In US$)
Category             Al location   Disburement  Concellotion
Consulting Services   600,000      488,898       08,102
Overseas Training    400,000       81,684       868,466
Unallocated           100,000      100,000           -
TOTAL           1.000.000     6e9s482      481.588
VIII.  Conclusions 1/
F.1       SMI loan has worked out for solving present problems of SMIs and
improved SMI's productivity through the plant level guidance and application
by foreign consultants. SMIPC staff also accompanied with foreign consultants
so as to carry out extension services more effectively will spread out the
technology learned from the consultant to other companies of the same field.
On the other hand, the well-trained staff by overseas training disseminates
their knowledge to many client companies. All the activities of the project
make a far reaching influence, though it is difficult to be quantified.
8.2       Many survey has indicated that the Korean-born specialists are
willing to share their technical know-how and eager to contribute as much as
possible to their fatherland's industrial development.
8.3       The clietLt companies which want to improve further or maintain their
product quality and management aspects after the major service expressed a
strong desire to have follow-up service on a long-term or a continuous basis.
8.4       Booklets and data which foreign consultants bring in relation with
consulting services are helpful and continuously served as reference to client
companies.
8.5      Nowadays owing to Korean currency's up-valuation and cost increase
in the world market, extension services will give priority to up-to-data
industry and processing automation field in the future. Also SMIPC will take
into consideration of the technical inducement from special countries which
possess a superiority in certain technology in the future, because mostly
invitation of foreign consultants in extension services are iased to America,
Japan and Europe now.
I/   See Section VI. Cost Recovery, and Section VII. Effectiveness Analysis
in Part III.



- 29 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2515-KO)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION



30
PART III
1. Related Bank. Loan.
Year of
Loan No,      Title           Purposo                approval         Status            Comments
Ln 1176       SMIB I          Finance SMI              1976           Closed
subprojeets
Ln 1607       SMSB II         Finance SMI              1977           Cloued
subprojects
Ln 1749       SMIB III        Financeo SMI             1979           Closed
subprojects
Ln 2004       SMIB IV         Finance SMI              1981           Closed
subprojects
Ln 1829       CNB I           Finance SMI              1980           Closed
subprojects
Ln 2144       CNB II          Finance SMI              1992           Cloood
subprojects
Ln 2216       SMMI            Finance and tehni-    1982             Closed          Loan to SMIPC,
cal assistance for                                      KLB and CNB
small and medium
machinery industrieo
Ln 2516      SMI              F;nance SMI              1986           Closed          Loan to CNB and
subprojects                                             SMIPC
Ln 2071      SAL I            Support                  1981           Closed
structural
adjustments
Ln 2864       SAL II          Support                  1988           Closed
structural
adjustments
Ln 2809       Industrial      Support financial        1983           Closed          Loan to KDB, KLB
Finance I       reforms and finance                                     and KBI
subprojects
Ln 2671       Industrial      Support financial        1986           Completed       Loan to KDB,
Finance II      reforms and finance                                     KLB and KBI
subprojects



31 -
2. Proiect Timetable
Item                  Date planned        Date revised         Date actual
Identification        November 1983              -             November 1983
Preparation           February 1984              -              February 1984
Project Brief         May 10, 1984               -             August 15, 1984
Appraisal Mission    August 1984                 -              September 1984
Loan Negotiations    February 1985               -             March 15, 1985
August 21, 1986 la
Board Approval        March 1985                 -             April 16, 1985
Loan Signature        September 1985      April 1986           October 29, 1986
Loan Effectiveness   October 1985         January 27, 1987    January 6, 1987
Loan Closing          December 31, 1988  June 30, 1990          June 30, 1984
Loan Completion       December 31, 1987  December 31, 1989   December 31, 1988
/a The loan was renegotiated, because signing of the loan was delayed by more
than a year.
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
1986   1987   1988    1989
Appraisal estimate               6.47   17.17  19.54   21.00 /a
Actual                           0.00   5.84   18.65   20.37
Actual as 2 of estimate          -      34.01  95.45   97.00
Date of final disbursement
SMIPC                         January 17, 1989
CNL                           June 28, 1989
/a  Loan amounts of US$431,568 (SMIPC) and US$199,059 (CNB) were cancelled.



- 32 -
4. Status of Covenants
Section                             Activity                         Comments
Loan Agreement (Government of Korea)
2.02 (e)           Borrower to open and thereafter maintain in    Satisfactory
2.02 (f)           dollars a special account in Korea Exchange
Bank (KEB) in the names: (e) CNB, and (f)
SMIPC.
4.01               Korea Federation of Small Business (KFSB)          Study was
to conduct or coordinate a study on the           probably not
subcontracting problema, this study to be         accomplished.
reviewed by the Government and to be
furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1987.
Proiect Agreement (CNB)
2.06 (b)           To furnish, within six months from the date    Satisfactory
last withdrawal, a report on the execution
and initial operation of the subprojects.
2.10               To conduct a comprehensive training program    Satisfactory
for its selected staff for FY86-88.
3.02               To furr1ish audited financial reports within    Satisfactory
five months after the end of each fiscal
year.
3.03)              To maintain at all times, with effect from         Satisfactory
3.04)              January 1, 1987, its debt-equity ratio
within 10 times.
Project Agreement (SMPIC)
3.04 (a)           To ensure an overall cost recovery level of    Levels were not
10? of the direct costs by December 31,           accomplished.
1987 for its doL!*3tic consultancy services
and 30Z for its roreign consultancy
services.
4.01 (b)           To furnish audited financial reports within    Satisfactory
five months after the end of each fiscal
year.



- 33 -
S.  Use of Bank Resource
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Staos of Project Cycle           FY84    FY95    FYes       FY87    FY68    FY89    FY90    Total
Preparation                      22.0      7.7                                                   29.7
Appraisal                                 40 0                                                   40 0
Negotiations                               2.6                                                    2.6
Lending Operations               2.0      13a.                                                   16.6
Supervision                                0.6              2.8      4.6      8.8      0..       11.2
Completion                                                                    1.6      0.6        2.1
Administration                             0.2    8.2       6.2      0.1                          8.8
Total                    28.9    64.7    8.2        7.6      4.6      6.2      0.7      109.9
B. Mission$
Stage of                 Month/   No. of   Das In   Spcialization    Performance             Types of
Project cycle              year      prsone   f-gld         reprosented    ratina status       problems
Through appraisal          8/08         1         8      Development              -
banking
2/04        a        10      Dev-lopment              -
banking
6/04        1        18      Development              -
Appraisal through                                        banking
Board Approval
9/@4        a        19      Development              -
5anking
1       na.    Consultancy and           -
t-raining
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness             5/86         2        10      Development             -
banking
Supervision Mission        S/87        1       n.e.      Development      No major problem          -
banking
9/67       1       na.       Deovlopment       Minor problems      Slow dis-
banking                              bursement
2/68       1         a       Devolopment       Minor problems      Delay in cost
banking                         )   recovery goals,
) and covenants
8/68       1       n.e.      Development                      ) not in con-
banking                         )   pliance.
n.e.: not avallable



- 34 -
6. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.1: OVERVIEW O SUBPROJECTS
a ount
($6-00)
A. Purpose
New.                                        25                4,363          22.0
Expansion                                  116               14,464          73.0
Balancing, Modernization                     5                  974           5.0
and Replacement
Total                               146              19,801          1o0.O
B. Sub-sectoral distribution
Manufacturin                               1i                18.485          2244
Food, beverage and tobacco                   1                   80           0.4
Textile, wearing apparel 6                  50                6,721          34.1
leather
Wood and wood products                       2                  157            0.8
Paper, paper products and                   12                2,026           10.2
printing
Chemicals and petroleum; coal,              12                1,946            9.8
rubber and plastic products
Non-metallic mineral products                6                  934           4.7
Basic metals                                 2                  171           0.9
Metal products, machinery and               48                6,304           31.8
products
Others                                       1                  146            0.7
Non-manufacturing                                             1 6
Mining                                       -
Transportation                               2                  166            0.8
Construction                                 4                  655            3.3
Service                                      6                  495            2.5
Total                               146              19,801          100.0
C. Geographical distribution
Seoul City                                  60                6,398           32.3
Kyung-gi province                           41                5,064           25.6
South Chungcheong provinse                   9                1,148            5.8
North Chungcheong province                   3                  667            3.4
Kangwon province                             1                  100            0.5
South Jeonra province                        1                  586            3.0
North Jeonra province                        2                  160            0.8
South Kyungsang province                    10                2,280           11.5
North Kyungsang province                     9                2,362           11.9
Pusan City                                  10                1,036            5.2
Cheju province                               _                 _
Total                               146               19,801         100.0



.6.2 CNB - CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-                Nature   at g a ceti            lb    arpot X u               - nt-
Subproject                  project  Industry of                             -mai                                            of -  tct  *       e       ci ol
and    ima   ibTal PiinA  Arlmi t3t  Uimalo                  ftupat   an9d        ewm     f       o
Na.Proect  40-       qas         * mts  ant  otnx             hi           cmt                  wa.b      t       . t
Sam Hi Tentile Co..  Ltd.               001    Prepaid
Dong Chang Textile Co.. Ltd.          002    T           Exp.    916         11      738   700   750   12   213   51        0         96.4   7187 6/87  -I  vf/cirmy  ILCB
Kyung Shin Chemical Co.               A003    Prepaid
Die Kyung Ind. Co.                    A004    Prepaid
Shin-Do Industrial Co.                A006    MA          Cxp.   1.190        31    1.006  899   I.00o  -6   500          408         90.8   1/88 3/88  *2   Japan         ILCB
Han Seong Sealing Co.                 A007    Prepaid
Sam twang Fabric Industrial Co.   A008    Prepaid
Dae Seong Industrial Co.              3001    Prepaid
Sam Die Parts Ind. Co.                3002    MA          Exp.    434         53      135   110   135    -                  79         58.5   2/87 3/87  *1   1/Cermuny ILCB
Nynung 11 Electronic Co.              8003    N           Exp.    388         60      176   141   178    2                 115         64.6   3/87 3/87   -   U.S.A.    ILCB
Die Jin Hosiery Co.                   8004    T           Exp.     155         5       69    69    69    -    -            44         63.8   1187 3187  +2   Japan         ILC8
Dae Yun  Automobile Co.               8005    Prepaid
Ran Dok Hoaiery Co.                   3006    T           Cap.    552         68      365   235   367    2                 55          15.0   4/87 3/87  -1   Japan        ILCL
Young Wam Nodel Co.                 .3008    MA           Esp.     146        33       32    32    32    -                 20         62.5   2/87 6/87   4   Japan         ILC       I
Oong Jae Industrial Co.               3009    Prepaid                                                                                                                                nf
Seong Jin Precision Co.               3ol0    MA          36ew     211         7      301   296   300   -I                214         71.3   1/87 2/87  1    Japan         1LC8      i
Hong Jin Industry Co.                 3011    Cm          Esp.    141         23       57    36    57    _                 29         50.9   3187 3187   -   Japan         ILCB
Shin Sung Wire Cutting Co.            B012    Prepaid
Sei Chang Machine Co.                 B013    KA          Exp.    353         25       79    67    s0    1    15           50         81.3   6/87 3/87  -3   Denmrk   ILCB
Koree Netal Co.                       B014    MA          ulR      280        32      160    81   157   -3    50           60          70.1   6/87 4/87  -2   U.S.A.    ILCB
I1 Jin Ind. Co.                       8035    NA      *   xp.      94         10      108    90   110    2    _            63         57.3   6/87 31/87   5   Taivan    ILCB
11 Shim Co.                           3016    T          Exp.       59        45      179   179   179    -    -           135         75.4   4187 6187  2    Italy         ILCB
Set 8yul Scanning Lab. Co.            B017    Prepaid
Shin Segye Sould Co.. Ltd.            8018    MA          MHR      848        45      263   263   263    -         .-      49         56.7   4/87 4/87   -   SizerLrad ILCB
England
V~~~~~~~~
I-.
0. 



CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-               Nature   *e            swe"cota. IW inUYt PAS                 am ftisciIa             r-m- hP-
_-BtimtC"                         Io of ta_l fillEti- Ait 1il  f- of              of
Subproject                 project  IfdaUtrt of         Taw      Sef        Mstd Pisd  *3 GMcC Loo    0              = f     Pojal    _              owo
no.                Project  anews    e pkg           as   ancet  cnxn          1hicb LAD      coasta a                   pronc' froane-
Jang An Embroidery Co.               B019    T           Exp.      26         3      87    63    87 *  -    18           50         78.2   6187 4/87  -2   Japan        ILCB
Hodong Stone Co.                     3020    R           Exp.    252         33     540   339   542    2                220         40.6   8/87 8/87   -   Taiwan    ILCB
Dae Myung Electronics Co.             3021  -N           New       29         3      49    45    49    -        8        35         87.7   3/87 7187   4   England   ILCB
Kew Precision Co.                    3022    MA          Exp.    615         20     138   131   140    2    -            97         69.3   5/87 5187   -   Japan        ILCB
Rum Soo Precision Co.                3023    Prepaid
Kwang Jin Electronics Co.. Ltd.   3024    N              New       S0        30     263   120   260   -3    50           84         51.5   5187 6187   1   U.S.A.    ILCB
Daeil Shinsun Co.                    B025    Prepaid
Ryun fee Mark                     *  5026    T           Exp.     173        19      56    45    56    -    -            42         75.0   6/87 6/87   -   Japan        ILCB
Daeil Shinsun Co..  Ltd.             3027    Prepaid
Taeguang Chemical Co.                9028    Prepaid
Seowon Co.. Ltd.                     B029    Prepaid
You Hen Jongail                      3030    HA          Exp.      49        15      28    26    28    -    -            26         92.8   6/87 5/87  -I   Japan        ILCB
Iliha Lumber Co.                     8031    N          New       87         11      57    24    57    -    21           23         77.2   5/87 5187   -   Italy        ILCB
San Kyang Engineering Co.           * UL _    Prepaid
Doug Lin Chong Kong So               9033    Prepaid                                                                                                                             0C
Hirami Co.. Ltd.                     8034    MA          New      227        12     195   163   193   -2    80           79         82.4   7/87 6/87  -1   Japan         ILCB      t
Doug Noon Industry Co.               3035    T           New      42          4     120    94   123    3    -            90         73.2   8/87 6187  -2   Ja-an        lLCB
Dong Hyung boring Co.. Ltd.          B036    C           Ex p.    311         8     299   234   297   -2    -           224         75.4   9/87 8/87  -I   U.S.A.    ILCE
Chun Kong Electronics Co.            3037    HA          Exp.      71         5      85    61    85    -    16           56         84.7   6/87 7/b]   I   England   ILCB
Dae Wang Textile Co.                 3038    T           New      196         5     185   172   184   -I    24           40         34.8   9/87 9/87   -   Japan        ILCB
Hyoung 11 Electronic Co.             B039    N           Exp.    507         92     485   216   484   -I   122          207         67.9   7/87 8/87   1   U.S.A.    ILCB
Japan
Tae Nwa Last Co.                     3040    CH          New      121        13     235   227   235    -    50          163         90.6   9/87 7/87  -2   Italy         ILCB
Hyup Sung Ind. Machinery Co.         B042    Prepaid
Nam Do Precision Co.                 8043    Prepaid
Dong Msng Roll                       B044    HA          Exp.   1.147        65     101    77  1U       -    -          52         51.5   5/87 7/87   2   Sweden    PC
Sei 1k Electric Co.. Ltd.            B045    C          Exp.    435         17       67    66    67    -    -            32         47.8   6/87 7/87   1   Deutsch   IlCB
,t M
II,
*  a



CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-               "atore    at   i                                   _____i__7cf_ t_A__oC  ____ _____d_d
Subproject                 project  Industry of         -Tas mini    mnik v           a_  bt   Ioo                     Pzofcs       ni      eor M  F Mo
8D.                Proiect  smti  -alos             o           in iD oGt   _-
(Udillim)      0m118m)                        (Uiuhi.u)
Samboo Production Co.. Ltd.   B       046    Prepaid
Pung 11 Metal Co.                    B047    MA         Exp.  * 314        51       75    55    75    -    -            39        52.0   9)87 7/87  -2   Japan        ILCS
Hanil Cosr rcia1 Co.                 8048    T          Exp.      41        4       36    32    36           -          24        66.6  10/87 8/87  -2   Japan        ILCi
Oasis Record Co.                     B049    Prepaid
Shin Iwa Precision Co.               1050    MA         Exp.    190         12     127   127   129    2    -           84         65.1   8/87 12/87  4   Japan        ILCB
Tae yong Industrial Co.              B052    T          Exp.    159         6       32    32    32    -    -            24        75.0   9/87 8/87  -I   Japan        ILCJ
Sangpyung Textile Co.                B053    Prepaid
Yooil Ind. Co.                       8054    Prepaid
Sowha Medical Supply Co..  Ltd.    BOSS    P            Exp.   5.357       37      263   263   263    -    -           198        75.3   9/87 9/87  -   W/Geruany  ILCB
Gigu Video Ind. Co.. Ltd.            B056    0          Exp.   1.611        21      98    98    98    -         _       67        67.7   8/87 9/87   1  U.S.A.    ILC8
Shin man Last Co.                    8057    Prepaid
Jeans Trading Co.                    B058    P          Exp.      53        9       28    28    28    -    -           22         78.6   10/87 10/87 -   V/Geruany  ILCB
Ryun Jin Co.                         8059    T          Exp.    232         4      314   303   316    2    46         234         88.6   11/87 8/87  -3   Japan       ILCB
Mok Hwa Bed Co.. Ltd.                B 8060    W U      Exp.     47        38      145   120   145    -    -           101        69.6   2/88  11/87 -3   Switml&d ILCE I
Han Lim Industrial Co.               B061    MA         New     245          7      97    38    95   -2    -           29         30.5   11/87 9187  -2   Japan       ILCB    W
Daeyang Precision Co.                9062    MA         Exp.    308        37       74    74    74    -    -           53         71.6   10/87 8/87  -2   Japan       ILCB
Jung-A Industrial Co.                B063    P          Exp.    309        26       69    69    69    - _              56         81.1   1/88 1/68   -  W/Ger any  ILCB
Dae Joo Fine Chemical Co..  Ltd.   8064    CH           Exp.    704        36      279   273   278   -I   140         104         87.7  10/87 2/88   4   Japan  ILCB
Busan Clove Co.                      8065    T          Exp.    148         4       311   31    31    -    -           24         77.4   9/87 9/87   -   Japan        ILCB
Dong Chang Industry Co.              B066    Prepaid
Woo Seong Industrial Co.             8067    T          BDM     150         1       42    42    42    -    -           33         78.5   9/87 10/87   I   Japan       ILCB
Pyung Hwa Ind. Co.                   8068    T          Exp.    108         2       46    36    48    2    -   0    32            66.6   9/87 1/88   4   Japan        ItCt
Shin hva Industrial Co.             8069    p           Exp.    124        12      472   395   470   -2   150         145         62.7   9/87 9/87   -   Korea       PC
Shin An Glove Co.                    8070    T          Exp.     38         2       33    30    33    -   -            24         72.7  10/87 10/87   -   Japan       ILCB
Ulsan General Gas Co.. Ltd.          8071    CH         Exp.   1.820       71      150   150   150    -    -          113         75.3   11/87 10/87  -I   France    PC
Uniter International Co..  Ltd. B072    Prepaid
0'
0.
ta



CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-               b tur         Mt br   n n l     p    owaj me ___n
Subproject                 Froict  Industry ot          luu                                                                       Fd                 'It I_  e  re-
o0.                Project      oil,i,          *wilA CoNt  OWNrus                           __                                  pU_
(WdItAmi       (udilLi)                                                                            -.t
yong Nive Enterprise Co.. Ltd.    B073    S              new       34        11      49    24    50    I    25           19         88.0   10187 11/87   3   Japan      ILCB
Rynddl Electro form & Die            8074    MA          Exp.  *330          42      98    89    98    -    -             73        74.4   3/88 12/87  -3   Italy       ILCB
Dong Hyung boring Co.. Ltd.          W075    C           Exp.    310         10     288   288   288    -    -           220         76.4   10/87. 12187  2   U.S.A.    ILCB
Na. Chang Hun Kong So Co.            8076    p           Exp.    244         14      129   129   129    -    -          105         81.4   2/88 12/87  -2   Japan       ILCB
Do0g-K9eng Precision Co.             807?    MA          Rxp.    279         68     288   184   286   -2    50          148         69.2   11/87 11/87   -   Japan      ILCB
Joong Ang Color Co.                  5078    S           Exp.    146          7      99    60   100    1    34           46         80.0   12/87 11/87  -I   Japan      ILCB
Ryun Doi Clove Co.                   8079    T           Exp.      38         4      78    45    80    2    15           37         65.0   31187 12V87  I    Japan      ILCB
Je It Color Process Co.              B080    S           Exp.    263         26     142   117   142    -    -            90         63.4   2/88 11/87  -3   Japan       ILCB
Doo Yang Industrial Co.              gO08     CR         8xp.    ISO         36      86    86    86    -    -            47         54.6   12/87 12/87   -   Italy      ILCB
tun Sung So Co.                      B082    Prepaid
Kvang Sung Industrial Co.. Ltd.   8083    T              New     950         10    1,487 1.395 1,480  -7   700          228         62.7   12/87 12/87   -   Korea      PC
Shin 11 Industrial Co.               B84    HA           Exp.    114         14      72    67    74    2    -            52         70.3   1/88 4/88   3   Japan        ILCI
au Son Clove Co.                     W086     T          Exp.    148          5      34    34    34    -    -            25         73.5   1/88 4/88   3   Japan        ILCBI
Kuk 11 Nosiery Co.                   3086    T           Exp.    115         13     103   101   104    1    -            71         68.3   4/88 5/88   I   Italy        ILC-
Dong Yang Car Dock Co.               B087    S           Exp.    195        48      137   137   137    -    -            90         65.7   I/88 8/88   7   Japan        ILCB
Dae Ryung Electronic Co.. Ltd.    8088    MA             fxp.    415         76     225    56   221   -4    -            55         24.9   2/88 12/87  -2   Korea       PC
Ran Sung Ind. Co.                    3089    Prepaid
Dong Kvang So Co.                    B090    MA         Exp.    518          55     149   149   149    -    -           115         77.    3/88 1/88  -2   Japan        ILCB
hiraui Co., Ltd.                     3091    MA          Esp.    654         25     123    78   124    1    -            59         47..   4/88 1/88  -3   Japan        ILCB
Die Nyung Industrial Co.             8092    Prepaij
Shin Shin Clove                      3093    Prepaid
Te Bsack Textile Ind. Co.            5094    T           Exp.    213         12      33    32    33    -    -            25         75.5   1)88 3/88   2   Japan         ILC8
Kuk Je Netal Industrial Co.          8095    hA          Exp.     96         12     342   335   341   -I    20          230         73.3   3/88 7/88   4   Japan        ILCP
Young Jin Industrial Co.             B096    HA          Exp.    347        34      122   100   121   -I                 60         49.6   1/88 1/88   -   Korea        PC
Seung4oo Precision Co.               8097    MA         Exp.      40          7     151   106   153    2    -            75         49.0   2/88 2/88   -   Japan        ILCS
Som Yang Export Packing Co.          B098    P          Exp.    410         34      116    92   116    -    -            65         56.0   3/88 4/88   1   Japan         ILCB
Yong Jin Jung Gong Ss.               8099    MA          Eap.    446          38    198    64   198    -    _            85         42.9   2/88 4/88   2   taivan    tLCh s



CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS
8ub-            I     b      t    .       m      Ba                  _____________i___d_d l_1 _ _-_ -_d
-Agin"                           I of~~~~X41 towl Ati- h.l WUie -   -
Subproject                 project  Eudtatry of        Ta      lbta     vo   plo            n    ad m         11  OtuL t                 _ d
me.               Project      t           _  _u e cst    eun  I                   D      am _  P
(U milliam)    of Wiia)                      (V MIliia)
Bum Jin Paper Tube Co.              8100    P          Exp.    287        26       40    40    40    -    -           28        70.0   3/88 4/88   1  Taiwan    ILC8
Dong Chang Clove Co.                BlO0     T         Exp. * 264          8       69    69    69    -    -           50        72.4   3/88 2/88  -I   Japa..    ILCB
Kukmin Wire Cut Center Co.          8102    MA         Rew      283        2      600   590   602    2   100         241        56.7   3188 4/88   I   Japan       ILCI
Chun Kong Electronics Co.           5103    MA         Exp.      71        9      159   144   157   -2    -          115        73.2   6J88 4688  -2   Japan       ILCB
Sung Chang Clove                    3104    1          Exp.      24        5       70    70    70    -    -           51        72.8   6188 5188  -1   Japan       ILCB
Kyung Sung Precision Co.            3105    MA         Exp.    861        96      285   199   284   -1    -          134        47.2   2/88 6/88   4 Sizerlmsd   ILCB
Sei Ik Engineering & Electric Co. 3106    C            Exp.    434        23       50    50    S0    *    -           32        64.0   3/88 2/88  -I   Deutsch   ILCB
Sm Sung Screen Special rrintiug CO.  5307    Prepaid
Tae Kwang Clove Co.                 3109    T          Exp.    145         5       64    53    63   -I    -           42        66.6   3/88 4/88   1   Japan       ILCB
Dong Yang Industry                  3110    Prepaid
Se llyeong Industrial Co .. Ltd.   B3ll   TR           Emp.   1.284       71       88    88    88    -    -           49        55.7   1/88 3/88   2   Korea       PC
Dong-A Industry Co.                 3112    T          New       76        4       65    62    66    1    -          41         62.1   6/88 5/88  -I   Japan       ILC8
Hogye Sang Sa                       3113    T          Exp.      58       11       70    67    70    -    -           50        71.4   3/88 3/88   -   Japan       ILC8
Sin Sung Ind.                       3114    Ca        lCxp.    868        29      289   289   289    -    -          200        69.2   4/81 3/88  -I Siitwld  ILCtI 
Tae Jung Industrisl Co.             B135    T          NIe       35        1      46    39    45   -1    -            29        64.4   4/88 3/88  -I   Japan       ILCB
Keus liwv Electric Co..  Ltd.       3136    Prepaid
Sang 11 Industry Co.                3117    T          Exp.    112         5       50    46    49   -I    _           35        71.4   3/88 5/88   2   Japan       ILCB
Dong Chang Industry Co.             3118    T          Exp.    153         5       37    33    38    1    -           25        65.8   3/88 5J88   2   Japan       ILC8
Yong Sung S                        3119    MA         Exp.    170        15      156   153   154   -2    -          50         32.4   3/88 3J88   -   Japan       ILCB
Sang Shin Auto Itaintenance Co.    3120    MA          txp.    279        46      131   131   131    _    -          92         70.2   7/88 8/88   I  Japan        ILCB
Jin 11 Transfer Co.. Ltd.           3121    P          Exp.    397        39      65    65    65    -    -           50         76.9   1/88 2/88   1   Japan       PC
Kyung Shin Chemical Co.             B122    Prepaid
Dee Sung Woolen Textile Co.         B123    T          Exp.    648        30     210   149   209   _1   -            117        55.9   6/88 6/88   -   Japan       ILC8
Dae Jin Hosiery Co.                 3124    T          Exp.    273        13      85    75    85    -    -           56         65.8   7/88 3/88  -4   Japan       tLC8
Dong Q#ang Trading Co.. Ltd.   8 125    Prepaid
Keon Seol Clove Co.                *8126    T          Exp.     80         2      69    67    70    1    -           46         65.7   6/88 8/88   2   Japau       ILCB
Sea Kwang IMetal Ind. Co.           3127    Prepaid
51!
0 
ah



CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-               matom    mt lan n                   moio                       f1 ind 0esa mmd
Sebprojcct                project  Industry of         Ilad    Tl       T     Pod 1    r  Cb1 it LJ                    o fd towct    *dm
no.                Project  swa         etLwra         _1 c                t     Io        ant   hicb    t* -S
_  Olliji)        bimilm                        ianliow
San mwa Food Co.                    3128    F    8      xp.   3.115       97      91    91    91    -    -           57         62.6   5/88 8/88   3 3ht3ter1m   ILCB
Tae Yang Engineering Co.            8129    CH         Exp.  * 137         4       54    50    55    1    _           30        54.5   3188 6188   3   U.s.A.    ILCI
Daeyoung Coating Co.                6130    MA         Exp.    181        16      197   197   197    -    24         130        78.2   9/88 8/88  -t   Italy       ILCB
Shin Ho Sang Ss                     5131    T          New      55        10      124    81   122   -2    30         46         62.3   7/88  (688   -  Japan       ILCB
San Bong Emblem Co.                 B132    T          New     355        10      714   695   712   -2    50        268         44.7   6/88 6/88   -   Japan       ILCB
Kyeong lock Sa                      B133    T          BMR     360        35      138   131   140    2    -          91         65.0   9/88 8188  -1   Japan    tILC-
Se Hyeong Industrial Co.. Ltd.    B134    TR           xp.   2.149       88     166   128   166    -    -           73         43.9   7/88 7/88   -   Korea       PC
Hua Sung Heavy Equipment Co.. Ltd 8135    S            Cxp.     68         4      181   165   178   -3    -          99         55.6   9/88 10/88   1  Korea       PC
Oh Sung Electronic Co.. Ltd.        8136    MA         Exp.    313        54      111    62   110   -I    -          43         39.1   8/88 6/88  -2   Japan       ILCU
hyun Dae Chemical Industrial Co.  B137    P            Exp.     74        30     610   573   608   -2   341         108         73.8   8/88 9/88   1   Korea       PC
Se Hwang Ind.                       8138    Prepaid
Shin Hwa Ind. Co.                   3139    T          Exp.    168        25     209   209   209    -    37          90         60.7   1/89 3/89   2 W/Germany  ILCB
Jin Sung Machine Co.                B140    NA        Ile"      150        6     236   228   234   -2    50          118        71.8   3/89 5/89   2   Italy       ILCB      g
Jung Ent. Clinic                    6141    S          Exp.     86        12      44    36    45    1    -           25         55.5   1/89 5/89   4  V/Gerany  ILC          .
Ryung Shin Chemical Ind. Co.        5142    CH         Exp.   454         97      91    91    91    -    -           49         53.8  10/88 1/89   3  Korea        PC
Sin 11 industrial Co.               1143    T          Exp.    170         4      62    60    62    -    -           44         70.9   1/89 3/89   2   Japan       ItCS
Note:   C      C Construction                                               b   *  on-metallic mineral products
P  -  Paper. Paper Products 6 Printing                              T   -  Textile. weering apparel 5 leather
CH -  Chemicals. Petrolet-, Coal , Rubber S Plastic                 MI -o ining
EXP.  Ixpansion                                                     tiUC-  Internationel Liditted Competitive Bidding
F  -  Food. Deverage & Tabacco                                     -O   -  Others
S  *  Service                                                       V   -  Wood 4 wood products
MA -   etal Products. Machinery & Equipment                         Ti  *  Transportation
B*   Balancing. Modernization 4 Replacemet                          PC  -  Propritery contract
0'
0' 



FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
Total Sales                          Profits                                         Prafits m  I of
Sb-project                    project                                                                                      met worth                       total Aecto
Estimte            ctual          Ibtin_t.        ..kLuaL             w                 CttL           St6ti-81tl ^i
lot yr. 2h1 yr.  let yr. 2n yr.   1s yr. ad yr.  let yr. 2  yr.   tot yr. 2  yr.  la 7r. ad yr.   lot yr. ad 7r.  at yr. 2d yr.
Srw Ii Text i le Co.. Ltd.                AOOI   ftep.id
IkxW ChOa  Textile Co.. UId.             MMO        173   I.OCr4      370   1.087        16     95        14      98       16.5   29.3       16.5   29.3        6.2    8.2     6.2    8.2
Ky11 Shin Ceical Co.                      AW      lR*epid
VW  11An Ind. Co.                        AOC      Prepaid
Sin-Dl  brbstrial Co.                      OS6      316   1.125       297   1.235        60    237        59    237         7.5   10.4       7.5   10.5        4.2    4.5       4.2    5.1
Smg Sea1iiu Co.                       MO?    ftmpid
Sam  we Fbric lImstrial Go.               4O0B    Pepaid
aw Sea%  taustrial Co.                    ICOI    Prpuid
SW lBe parts W. CD.                       MOM     Pepid
wi8lg Elactronic Co.                      503       881    962        854    970         50     53        48      55       22.4   20.5      23.0   20.3         8.6    9.0      8.8    9.7
1w Jin  niery COD.                       IIOC       106    123        110    135         10      15       11      16        8.8   11.1       9.1   11.8        6.6    6.8       6.7    6.9
DM Yon  At bile COD.                     II5      Prepeid
Ron D* Riery COD.                         M 8006 ,   481    992      470    997          44    179        42    181        11.6   38.2       11.3   39.0        4.7   12.2      4.5   12.9
Yae 1a  Midel Co.                        B008       318    339        288    343         13     13        10      13       16.3   13.5       15.9   13.5        8.5    6.6      8.2    6.6        1-
Ihw  Jae lUIstrial OD.                    3l09    Prepaid
Seng Jin Preciaja Cb.                    8010       435    435       421    435          43     42        41     42        17.1   15.1      16.9   15.1        8.0    7.6       7.9    7.6
Ibw Jin [ndtty Co.                       BCI0       255    503        260    515         20     33        21      35       38.3   42.0      39.0   42.5        12.9   16.9    13.0   17.1
Sin Su% Wire Oittirg Co.                 6012    Prepaid
Sei Ouag Muizr CD.                       6013       350    396        341    397         37     55        36      55       22.9   27.9      22.0   27.9        9.4   12.7       9.4   12.7
Korea 3etal Co.                          6014       621  * 831       611    833          13     18        12      I8        9.0   11.8       9.0   11.8        4.2    4.6       4.2    4.6
Im Jin Id. OD.                           80315      198    260       199    270         20      26        20     2?        16.5   18.2      16.5   18.2        9.4    9.6      9.4    9.6
11 sim GCo.                              6316       571    728       569    730         24      53        24     53        46.5   55.3      46.5   55.0        10.7   17..    10.5   17.2
Set ltyul Scaming Lab. Co.               6017    Prepaid
Shin Sage CD Sin1 Co.. Ltd.               0318   2,523    2.713    2,541  2,742          82     93        83      95       25.9   24.6      26.1   24.8        6.8    7.0       6.8    7.1
I 0
w



FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
Bob_                 Tota 1sales                           Trofitc                                         aet   _  I^ of
Sub-project                    pro3eetot                                                                                                                    tetl  _wte
NO.        as~ttme           Actml            nti_nte.         -AUML    ] aSUNINW                 ACLM            ALJI               A
lot FT 22|1 Fc  Iht  Fv  WAR1,p    It Pr' adl 7w.  Ist Ywr. Ul .w    It Yr- 2  Yr-  AKt Jr bd 7.   lot y. azd yr. la yr. aud yr.
iam An EyiLdery co.                       E019       87    152         69    151          9      22        9      22       22.4   33.0       22.6   32.9       11.3   15.0    11.2   14.9
tdne StwC.                            OM        1.066   1,649      987   1.654       32      56       31      57        17.3   21.9      17.1   22.0        6.6    7.6      6.6    7.6
(be *Af Electronics on.                   9021       51      72        49     75         12      19       11      .0        33.0   35.4      32.5   35.7       20. 1    18.4    2D.0   18.6
Am Prcisicn OP.                           am2        Mf4    781       741    781         RI      83       79      81       23.6   19.5       23.2   19.7       10.5   10.6    10.7   10.9
K- SDO necision Go,.                      8023    Prepid
MMSJin electronics (b ....... Ltd.  8   04   .462 1,20  478   1.227                   12      47       13      49        23.8   76.6      23.8 76.7         19.3   55.4    19.3   55.5
Omil Shinwum Co.                          DM2     Prpid
Hrm Nee Mark                              am2       210    285        199    29D         21      35       20      36        19.1   25.2      19.0   25.2       10.3   13.9    10.3   13.9
Omit Shinsm  co....., Ltt.                MD2  Prepid
T    ge-  Omcdl CD.                       am2     Prqmid
SWA  GO. Ld.             E02                   P nepaid
You amn i lod                            am          74    139         75    140          1      1         1       1       13.3    8.8       13.3    8.8        1.0    1.4      1.7    1.3
Ilha Umber Co.                         s E031       486    659       48S    661           6      1         6       1        1.4    0.2       1.4    0.2         2.1    0.3      2.1    0.31
S- KYp6 Eloinigg cb                       DM3     Prepid                                                                                                                                           t
DNS Lou Oqo kw Ss                         am      Prepid
llirai CD ... lAd.               E        0S         216    205   Z 03    29D            43     40        42      41       41.3   27.6      41.0   27.8        11.2   10.0    11.1   10.1
Dong Hoon tlnustry Co.                    am3       127    16D        125    160         21     28        20      29       Stl.0   40.9     51.0   41.0        13.0   17.6    13.0   17.6
DO   "u  80rice (b., ttd.                 36b       341    421       329    430         OD      77        79      79       40.7   2B.2      40.6   28.4        13.8   14.0    13.7   14.1
Chun"  lectrcni   OD.                    0037      167    23         169    240         23      31       23      32       45.6   39.0      45.4   39.1i       17.4   15.8    17.4   15.9
Dse lle Textite Co.                       E038       19  0  60         21     63          4      17        5      Is        3A4   11.9       3.6   11.9         1.8    6.8      1.9    6.8
Siae tl Electmic CD.                     E039      2.353  2.737    2.359  2.798S        76      93        77     98        54.7   34.8      54.9   34.8       42.9   29.7    43.0   29.8
Tae On Last co.                          amJ         90    284        94    Z84           2     38         2      38        1.7   26.9        1.7   26.9        0.6   10.0      0.6   10.0
lbup 9mB Ind. ra3chif" CoD.              eC42    Pepaid
P  VD Precisim Co.                        BC43  Prepid
awg Yak  Roil                             E044      1.880  2,103    I.77    2,397        61     72        60      74        18.1   17.5      17.9   17-7        4.4    4|.5     4.4    4.6
Sei Dt Electric OD......... Ltd.  *        a45.. 916   1.104         9C4    1,118        37     43        36     45        16.5   15.5       16.4   15.7        7.6    7.2      7.6    7.2
SmboD Pt  Xtion Co ........ Ltd.         0066 .. tqcaid fj
r 



FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-          1          ' ,sale                            rofits                                        ,r t  m  t of
Sob-project                    pject                               ~t worth                                                                                     a  am
1SrojePt ,i   .rt  WA a      Wi        Jr. I a t P.      S      t. r       t yr.. r. la y  ad           . la y. ad yr  I yr. ad  r   a yr F
aT 11 Metal Co.                           1147       599    910       601    917          8     68         9      69        3.3   23.2        3.2   23.1        1.7   11.       1.6   11.7
bnil Gmc i ia . w1148                                47      63        46     647 7              S         7       8        15.0   14.4      15.0   14.4        9.4    9.4      9.4    9.4
Oasis  card Co.                           3149    Prepsid
shin an Precisian Co.                     3150       356    419       347    426         47     61        46      61        39.7   35.3      39.6   35.3       17.4   15.8    17.2   15.8
Taymn  Iun'triul Co.                    N152        III    133       112    135          6      8         6       9        6.1    7.9        6.1    8.0        3.8    5.3      3.8    5.3
Sa"y3 Textile Co.                         6053     Reud
YToil 1tl. CD.                           II54    Prqpid
Sd lhdical aSfly (o.. Ltd.                355      8.013  9.462    7.999  9.476         329    423       328    425         35.4   33.7      35.4   33.8        5.5    6.0      5.5    6.0
CiVu Video Wd. Co.. Ltd.                  3156      724    50         744    878         60    110        61     Ho0       44.0   49.3       44.1   49.2        3.7    6.9      3.7    6.9
Shin Om ltst Co.                          B057    Prep!.
_ie   Tradiu CO.                          a058       24    143         28    149          7     40         8      41       37.2  110.3       37.4  110.4       10.8   40.6    10.7   40.5
1)  Jin OD.                               NW59       173    183       18D    194         57      70       58      71       23.9   23.0       24.0   23.0       10.4   11.6    10.4   11.8
* am 8Bd Co.. td.                         MM  .    567    586         574    598         24      25       25      26       27.4   22.1       27.4   22.2       12.4    87      12.3    8.7         g
Pn Lim Imlatribl 0.                       3161       160   1.101      175   1,147         3      17        4      19         1.0    6.5       1.6    7.0        0.8    3.7      0.9    3.8        Ss
1eya% Ptcision Co.                        3062      498    518        481    533         26     24        25      25       17.6   13.8       17.1   14.0        6.7    6.1      6.6    6.1
JIm      luhaKtidl CD.                   3163       1.232   1.391    1.,46  1,427        29     31        28      32       27.5   22.7       27.A   22.8        8.3    7.4      8.3    7.4
Doe JO Fine Omical Co.. Ltd.        B D64           1,332  2,207    1,334  2,253         34      74       34      76       19.7   30.5       19.3   30.0        4.3    7.8      4.3    7.7
BAsm Gal OeCo.                            3165       76      93        74     97         16     22        15      22       13.5   15.9       1' 4    15.8       9.7   11.3      9.6   11.2
OUTS COhu  lWustry Co.                    3166    Prepid
luo Seong Industrial (b.                  3167        19  *  53        18      56         5      10        5      11         3.9    8.1       3.8    8.2        2.7    5.4      2.7    5.4
P1  llu a W. Co.                          3168      109    175        101    178          7      11        6      11        8.)   11.4       8.3   11.4         5.9    7.8      5.9    7.7
Shin Me In&strial Co.                     3169     1.466  2.084    1,489  2,080          49     78        48      77       31.7   29.2      31.7   29.1        11.5    9.8    11.5    9.8
Shin An Gtove CD.                         3070       54      81        53     85         12     20        12      21       2 23.8   25.3     23.7   25.5       21.3   22.1    21.2   22.0
Ulsan General Gas OD.. Ltd.               3D71     2.893   3.415    2,901  3,433         84     85   84           84       17.1   14.8       17.0   14.7        4.6    4.7      4.6    4.7
thitedTnten.tiaIal CoD.. Ltd.             8072    Prepaid
KyuT MIe  terprise CD.. ltd.              0073       57    243         55    246          5      i5        4      16        2.7   22.2        2.7   22.3        1.4   13.2      1.4   13.3
ltydai Electro form 6 Die                3D74       582    742        571    749         38     19        38      19        6.2    6.0       6.1    5.9         3.0    2.9      3.0    2.8   go .
30 
ph
0';



FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-                  Total 8ales                            PrIfit  Profit   2    of
Sob-project                     projct                                                                                          lae    ort b                      totrl as
Netimate          Ae*tul           J sti_kte         -As_LmL           Ealimla.  ^ .k nL 
Ist yr. adr.    tst        Ar.    la yr. ad yr.   1t yr.hapr.    la pr. ht  yr.   la  yr. lot yr.    la yr. AI yr.   al Sr. ht  yr.
Ibl 3jWE  Dorit CoG.. Ltd.         E        075       474     876      .479    887         130    281        130    282        145.8   83.4    145.8   83.1          11.1   15.5    11.0   15.4
n  Owue  n lukcxm  Sa Co.                  E076       242      368      235    381          20      31        19      30         8.9    11.9       8.8    11.7        7.8    8.7       7.8    8.5
03M-bmg Precision CD.                      0077       841    1.444      827    1,488        51      75        50      76        36.0   34.7       36.0   34.6         9.0    8.6       9.0    8.6
Joa   Alg Color Co.                        E078        183    425        182    431         15      3D        15      3D        13.9   21.6       13.8   21.4         6.9    11.9     6.7    11.8
3Buw Dai Glowe Cb.                          079        51      94        50      97          8      If         8      10        12.3   14.1       12.1   14.0        10.2    8.6    10.1    8.5
Je 11 Color Prac    Co.                     OSD       377      M        385    802          22      26        22      27         8.7    9.2        8.6    9.2         6.7     5.9     6.7    5.9
DM Yam  ln&wtrial Co.                      o w)8l      174    240        169    252          7      26         6      26         2.3     7.7       2.3    7.7         2.6    6.2      2.6    6.1
fiau st Sa Cb.                             B082     Prepaid
I&MO  Sag IL,strial Co.. Ltd.              m083       224    2.692      23D   2.701         23    257         22     258         4.9   42.7        4.9   42.5         1.4   14.0       1.4   13.9
Shin 11 .laustrial Co.                     B084       249     253       247    256          34      39        3       30        24.7   18.1       24.6   18.0        16.0   12.4    15.9   12.3
%ism Glowe CO.                             E08        181    181        183    185          42      43        41      41        28.7   22.5       28.6   22.4        16.9   13.8    16.8   13.8
Kuk 11  &siey Co.                          3Om8        163    199       161    221          15      17        14      19        11.4    11.6      11.3   11.8         8.0     6.9      8.0    6.8        8
DM  Ta  Car Dock o.                        D E87M     312    330        3D9    340          23      32        21      33         4.7    6.1        4.7    6.0         3.8    6.3       3.8    6.3       4.1
Om RPM  Electrauic Co.. *Ltd.       E C 88          Prepaid
IbHn SU8 1d. Co.                           E809      1.959  2.065      1.966  2,104        318    134        119     136        38.9   31.1       39.0   31.0        17.5   16.2    17.5   16.2
MaS rme  Sa Co.                            Ba90      1.062   1.084     1.083   1.095        74      77        77      8D        19.8    17.2      20.0   17.3         8.5    8.0       8.5    8.0
Wiram Co.. Ltd.                            3E91        739    820       745    831          7n      87        78      89        50.3    37.0      59.1    36.8       10.5   10.4    10.4   10.3
D3e lijii labstrial Co.                    O092     P id
Shin Shin Clove                            893      Prepuid
Tat  Iack Textile WI. Co.                  3594        197    197       186     199         24      32        24      33        13.7   15.2       13.6   15.3        10.3   11.9    10.3   11.8
Xm JeHital  1 nstril COD.                 3095       381    437        384    441           6      82         6      83         7.4    63.1       7.0   63.0         2.3   16.5       2.3   16.3
Yat Jin lInstrial Co.                      3096       922    922        925    938          So      60        58      61        35.6   26.7       35.4   26.5         9.6    8.3       9.5    8.2
Satg       PreciSion CO.                   B597       468     529       459    541          73      83        72      84  '    51.4    39.3       51.1   39.2        34.2   22.8    36.2   22.7
Sum *at EJqot Pacing CO.                   am98      1.081   1.153     1.075   1,162        59      61        49      63        14.2    J5.0      14.1   14.9         5.2    5.9       5.2    5.9
Yag JW t Jaw  Gng Sa                       3)99       765    809        748    811          85      90        84      91        49.1    34.7      49.0   34.6        13.6   12.2    13.5   12.2
&m Jin Paper 116e Co.                      BIO       357     30D       349    381          25      27        24      27        11.3    11.0      11.3   11.0         7.6     7.4      7.6    7.4
La
*                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~at
00 w



FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-                 Total sales                           Proeitc                                         rrofits    T ef
Sub-project                    project                                                                                      met  Mot                  .bS  3.
NO.        an~It mte         Actum       IZ timte               Actul               1A;g;XL                        imiI              A" L
lot yr. 2- .   lt yr. M,#r.   lot yr. ad r.  In yw. 2bl yr.   la yr. 2ad                         lFi y.              t.         i.    
MM 6O       Claoe Cb.                     3101       210    223      ,208    225         29      22       28      23        11.8    8.2      11.7    8.2        8.9    5.9      8.9    5.9
Mouin Wire Cut Center CD.                 5102       599    768       571    788         51      95       50      96        25.5   35.2      25.4   35.2       10.3   12.3    10.3   12.1
Om KRo  Electr(mics Co.                   8103       346    498       321    491         53      79       51      78        64.3   53.'      64.1   53.0       20.8   20.6    20.t   20.5
&M Oung Clave                             B104        99    118        79    116         19      21       16      20        33.0   27.9      32.9   27.7       18.3   14.7    18.2   14.6
Kyumg Sung Preciaia co.                   8105      1.468   1,468    1,423   1,477      182    176       171    178        42.4   28.8       42.2   28.6       14.7   12.3    14.5   12.2
Sei Dk Efgineerisg 6 Electric Co., Ltd.    8106     1,404   1,532    1.399   1,536       40      52       39      53        16.7   18.2      16.6   18.)        7.2    7.3      7.2    7.2
Smo Sxn  Scree  S"cial Printing Co.  .    3107    kepid
Tae ung Glove CD.                         8109       197    215       199    226         16      19       17      21        12.8   14.7      12.9   14.9        8.6    8.8      8.7    8.
Oong Yang Industry                        8310     Pre3id
Se Ryeong Industrial Co.. Ltd.            Blll      1.402   1.402    1.399   1,411      305    105       104    105        22.6   18.4       22.5   18.4        8.5    8.       8.5    8.
1bg-AIndtry  Co.                          B112       45      84        47     85          7      i5        7      14         7.0   14.2       6.9   14.1        6.1    9.7      6.1    9.6
I}bpe sm SaS                              B113       294    326       296    330         21      20       21      21       43.1   29.5       43.0   29.4       20.3   13.7    20.1   13.5
Sin 9re  Wi.                              B114 -   1,473   .793      1,462   1,801      200    202       199    201         31.8   24.4      31.7   24.3       14.5   12.2    14.4   12.2         1
Tue Ju  Industrial COD.                   B115        55     96        54    101          6      10        6      11        17.0   28.6      16.9   28.5       10.9   13.3    10.8   13.2        *
Pam FM Electric Co.. Ltd.                 B116    Prepaid
Sms It 11    utry Co.                     8117       146    156       141    158         22      26       21      26        19.3   20.5      19.2   20A        12.1   14.1    12.1   14.0
DDet *g l:   mtry COD.                    B118       158    160       140    167         22      19       20      20        13.7   11.6      13.6   11.5        9.9    84       9.8    8.3
YaO   SureSa                              B119      600    747        590    752         34     40        33      41        17.6   18.1      17.5   18.0        9.6    8.9      9.5    8.8
Sag Shin Auto Yaintenance Co.             B120      347    376        259    386         34      35       22      36        17.2   15.0      15.1   15.8        8.2    7.1      8.0    7.0
Jin 11 Transfet CoD.. Ltd.                8121      616    616        601    621         53      55       50      56       31.0   24.3       3D.0   24.1       12.1   11.2    12.0   11.1
Kybu  Shin aiO.cal CD.                    B122    Prepaid                                                                     a
Ose Sg Woolen Textile Co.                 8123      1,822   2.282    1,824  2,285       103    121       103    120        25.6   24.8       25.5   24.7       13.1   12.7    13.0   12.6
Ve Jin Hbsiery Co.                        8124      245    338        247    348         16      19       16      20  -    8.4    9.4         8.3    9.3        4.7    5.2      4.6    5.1
Dng Cuha  Trading Co., Ltd.               B125    Prepid
Ke.   I Cloe Co.                          8126      171    223        163    225         16     33        15      33       33.8   46.4       33.7   46.2       13.3   18.7    13.2   1.6
Sam awme 14tal Ind. Co.                   8127     repaid
0il



FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
:3-                   Total Sol"                            Ptrfits                                           Profit. an I of
Sub-project                     pojet              t tm    vottb                                                                                                  total  *Metn
80.~        tJ  te               ctml           bti_te    -A"NS                    |iwamj             AGUAL            ||stmL            AML
l t 7r. ad Fr.   tnt yr. 2PCr.    Irt yr.  1i yr. y.d 1 r.                  It  yr.        2d yr.    t t yr.         ad Vr.   In  yw. t..   ad yr.
S I an 3. 0..                           8128      5.327   6.585  5.037  6.587           126    146       121  A47           18.9   18.3       18.6   18.2         3.8    3.8       3.8    3.7
ta  Ya  Engineering CD-                    B129       3Wi    467        386    479          33      41        33      42        23.2   22.8       23.2   22.7        18.4   17.3    18.3   17.1
leymi Co L1s1  Co.                         B130       28D    3S6        275    391          24      57        23      59        13.1   25.9       13.0   25.8         8.3   13.8       8.3   13.7
Shin lb Sng So.                            8131       431    587        420    5E6          26      36        24      37        77.2   55.8       .'.0    55.2       22.7   18.3    22.1   18.1
SUe BE.  bblem Co.                         8132       3D2    574        313    58D          51      81        52      82        12.5   18.1       12.6   18.0         6.6    9.8      6.5    9.5
W0%         Sn                             B133        323    343       297    347          68      74        69      75        33.9   27.2       33.4   27.0        15.6   14.3    15.4   14.1
Se"          lzhtrial Co.. Ltd.       .    B134      3.172   3.202     2.987   3,215       128    141        121     143        26.0   25.6       25.8   25.5         6.4    7.9      6.2      7.7
oa          re  E  pi      Co.1bnvy3q .. Ltd.  135     95      159       94    163           8       9         7      10        11.4    11.8      11.3   11.9         6.1    4.8       6.0    4.7
Ih SU  Electric Co.. ltd.                   5136      942    I.19D      945    1,196        10      59        10      59         8.9   39.5        8.8   39.3         3.3   15.6       3.3   15.5
Iym DM Owcal ln&strial CO.                 5137      1,918  2.939      1.935   2,945        97    174         98     175        47.3   42.8       47.1   42.6         8.7    9.9       8.6    9.7
Se own kw.                                 8138     Ftepid
Sin Us lIrd.                               8 B139     765       5       743      -          57      59        56       -        28.8   23.0       28.7     -         IS.0   12.3   1U.9        -
iin gm.d,.Co.                           '814OM        323    336        321      -          71      69        70       -        36.2   25.7       36.1     -         23.6   15.2    23.5       -
.hit fit. CliIAc                           8141       276    297        271      -          37      40        21       _        50.8   50.9       50.5    -          34.1   31.3    34.0       -
Km  a"  OWA1  tnd. Co.                     8112      4,912  4.998      4,900     -         344    418        351       -        41.5   3D.7       41.0     -         11.2   11.2    11.0       -
Sin tl wzttrial Co.                        8143        169    173       167    _            28      27        27       -        24.0   24.5       33.9     -         15.2   12.1    15.0       -
w 



ECONOMIC INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
S_b-                         4        ii iiua ft (U ii.i)            Sepot as  Direct        astimted  Iatiuted
Sub-                                                                 I of        imports    ayployeft  Value dd
Sabproject                  project   Location    atifte    ctfal    Ratiute    Actual   Total              of rou      Go                       m        En
MD.                    It  2ad   let  2.1   lt  2ad   lut  2.d  blo                             i-        7?.   ?'-
yr.  yr.   yr.  yr.   7?.  7?.   yt   yr.   yr.  yr.   yr.  yr.   bU *dlzau)
Sam hi Textile Co.. Ltd.               AOOI      Prepaid
Dong Chang Textile Co.. Ltd.           A002      Seoul       so   82      80   82                                                       14      367   803   33.8  48.5
Kyung Shin Chemical Co.                A003      Prepaid
bae Kyung Ind. Co.                     A004      Prepaid
Shin-Do Industrial Co.                 A006      Kyungnam    75   90      80   90                                                        1      -89   631   17.5 48.0
Han Seong Sealing Co.                  A007      Prepaid
Sam Kwang Fabrick Industrial Co.       A008      Prepaid
Dae Seong Industrial Co.               B001      Prepaid
Sam Dae Parts Ind. Co.                 m002      Kyunggi     75   75      75   80                                                        2      105   231
Myoung 11 Electronic Co.               B003      Kyunggi     65   80      70   80                                                        8      135   386
Dae Jin Hosiery Co.                    B004      Kyungbuk    90   90      85   90                                                        8        9    24
Dae Yung Automobile Co.                B005      Prepaid
Han Dok Hosiery Co.                     006       yunggi     75   80      80   80                                                       22      359   840                 1
Young Hm Model Co.                     B08      Kyungnam    85   90      80   90                                                        2       17    39                JS
Dong Joe Industrial Co.                8009      Prepaid
Seong Jin Precision Co.                3010      Seoul       80   80      80   80                                                        7       95   197
Hong Jin Industry Co.                  30ll     Seoul        74   80      80   85                                                        2       88   159
Shin Sung Wire Cutting Co.             8012     Prepaid
Sei Chang Machine Co.                  W013     Pusan        90   90      85   90                                                        5       78   151
Korea Metal Co.                        3014     Pusan        80   80      80   80                                                        1      110   160
In Jin  ed. Co.                        B015     Seoul        85   90      85   90                                                        2       67    97
11 Shim Co.                            B016     Seoul        85   85      85   90                                                        3      193   322
Set Byul ScanuinR Lab. Co.             B017     Prepaid
Shin Segye Sound Co.. Ltd.             B018     Seoul        85   85      80   85                                                        1      415   694
II1.



ECONOMIC INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-                         el kCtyItinn2xport  (Wilimi)              Czport a.  Direct        Catim_ted   Cat imted
SubprojectSub                                                                                Z of         imports    eeptoymm   valu" ded
Subprojeet                   project   Location    zatimte    Actual    Eatimate    Actulal          2           o irou     on                         m       Zae
.                       Jlot  2ed Ist 2         ld          lot  2nd   lot 2ed   T eoi
__yr.  yr.   yr.  yr.   yr.  yr.   yr.  yr.   yr.  yr.   yr.  yr.                             in11)
Jang An Embroidery Co.                  B019       Seoul        90   90    85   90                                                           2         87   114
Nodong Stone Co.                        B020       Kyungbuk   *65   dO    70   75                                                            4        145   22!
Dae Myung Electronics Co.               B021       Seoul        9    95    90   90                                                           4         41    67
Kem Precision Co.                       B022       Kyungg;      93   93    90   90                                                           3        154   189
Kum Soo Precision Co.                   5023       Prepaid
Kvang Jin Electronics Co.,* Ltd.        B024       Kyunggi      85   85    80   85                                                          44        423   711
DOeil Shinsun Co.                       B025       Prepaid
Hyun Hee Mark                           B026       Seoul
Daeil Shinsun Co.. Ltd.                 B027       Prepaid
Taeguang Chemical Co.                   B028       Prepaid
Seowon Co..  Ltd.                       B029       Prepaid
You Ran Jongmil                         3030       Kyunggi      95   95    85   90                                                           4         49    58
lihwa Lumber Co.                        B031       Kyunggi      90   90    85   90                                                          15        127   170
San Kyang Engineering Co.               B032       Prepaid
Dong Lim Chong Kong Sa                  8033       Prepaid                                                                                                                       OD
Hiram Co., Ltd.                         3034       Ryungnam    90   90    90   90                                                            4        149   187
Dong Hoon Industry Co.                  8035       Seoul        95   95    90   95                                                           2        118   155
Dong Myung Boring Co.. Ltd.             B036       Seoul        80   90    80   90                                                           3         38    48
Chun Kong Electronics Co.               B037       Seoul        80   80    80   85                                                            3        115   161
Dee Vang Textile Co.                    B038       Jeonbuk      96   96    90   95                                                           4         39    45
Myoung 11 Electronic Co.                B039       Kyunggi      90   90    90   90                                                           17       976  1.318
Tae Nva Last Co.                        9040       Seoul        90   90    85   90                                                           13        83   176
Nyup Sung Ind. Machinery Co.            3042       Prepaid
Nas Do Precision Co.                    8043       Prepaid
Dong .4ng Roll                          B044       Kyunggi      75   80    80   80                                                            3       484   651
Sei Ik Electric Co..  Ltd.              80.45      Choongbuk   79   85    80   85                                                            12       327   411
Samboo Production Co..  Ltd.            B046       Prepaid
or'
00
0.Ar



ECONOMIC INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sob-                        C^peily OnItz imb 2mt  U .illioo)        2 ot         irt        eoy cm t   ea nded
_______ ______ ______ ______ _____     of      impacts     mpto pe .ta 
Subproject                  project   Location    Estimate    ActuaI    zatimte    Actual   Total             of 0row    001          valu I t   2    m    m
flat  lad   1st  lad  -   -                   1~-&In- To"& Rucmola             d
go.         I         -ist-ud  7at2-t ind   let Wlat2            d   pT. 2p   ;. y       r      i
7T.  7r.   yr.  yr.        yr.  yr.    yr.  yr.    yr . yr .  yr.                 (r  liiJ
Pung ti Metal Co.                      3047       Pusan       80   90    85   90                                                         2        94   122
Hanil Coamercial Co.                   M08        Seoul      *90   90    90   90                                                         2        19    21
Oasis Record Co.                       84i        Prepaid
Shin NHw  Precision Co.                B050       Seoul       90   90    90   90                                                         I        5S    68
Tae yong Industrial Co.                3052       Seoul       80   80    8S   90                                                         2         10    12
Sangpyung Textile Co.                  3053       Prepaid
Yooil Ind. Co.                         3054       PrepaiD
Sotha Medical Supply Co.. Ltd.         B055       Seoul       90   90    90   90                                                         3       940  1.242
Cigu Video Ind. Co.. Ltd.              3056       lyunggi     85   90    85   90                                                         1        109   172
Shin Ran Last Co.                      3057       Prepaid
Jeans Trading Co.                      BOSS       Seoul       80   85    85   8S                                                         -        57    64
Hyun Jin Co.                           B059       Kyunggi     90   90    90   90                                                         5       127   157
Kok IRNa Bled Co., Ltd.                B060       Seoul       90   90    90   90                                                        11        i8    207
Ran Lim Industrial Co.                 8061       Kyuogbuk    80   90    85   90                                                         7       196   224                9
Oaeyang Precision Co.                  B062       Seoul       95   95    90   95                                                         2        40    44               tO
Jung-A Industrial Co.                  8063       Kyuoggi     90   90    85   90                                                         -       152   180
Dae Joo Fine Chemical Co.. Ltd.        B064       Kyunggi     90   90    90   90                                                        17       627   783
Busan Clove Co.                        B065       Seoul       90   90    80   85                                                         2        43    50
Dong Chang Industry Co.                B066       Prepaid
Loo Seong Industrial Co.               B067       Seoul       100   100  300  100                                                        3          3     3
Pyung lwa Ind. Co.                     B068       Choongnam   95   95    95   95                                                         2        24    28
Shin ewa Industrial Co.                3069       Kyunggi     85   90    85   85                                                         8       317   391
Shin An Clove Co.                      3070       Seoul      100  100   100  100                                                         2        2?    26
Ulean Ceneral Cos Co.. Ltd.            8071       Kyungnau    80   8S    85   90                                                         -        335   400
Unite$ International Co.. Ltd.         8072       Prepaid
lyung Ivwa Enterprise Co.. Ltd.        B073       Kyuggi      90   90    90   90                                                        i8        177   201
Hyndai Electronic form 6 Die           B074       xyuaggi     90   90    90   95                                                         3       205   299
174
0
I,.



ECONOMIC INDICATORS OP SUBPROJECTS
Sub-             Riti filim    att en mll)                           3ap-rt a  Direct         at imted   Eat i_ed
Sub-             2__ _ __ __ __                                    j1 sprta            e1  vm  ut   v lu,  dde
Subprojet                    project   Location    EStimte    Actul  Iatiute    Actual   Total                of -                 m oN
No.  lEt 2nd                         -       .j!5i~~~~~~~33.~~ .yjazi~~~ja  incremntal  let
No.                   -Int- 2d  let Z  at2d leot  2-        d e-tz     70--l       t t    baiesr 
yr.  yr.  yr  Yr    yr.  r    yr   yr.   y    yr.         yyr r1 i
Dong Nyung Boring Co.. Ltd.             W075      Seoul        90   90    90   90                                                        5       112   452
81a0 Chang Nun Kong So Co.              8076      Kyungbuk   .90   90    85   90                                                         1       116   147
Dong-Kwang Precision Co.               807i       Kyuaggi     85   90    90   90                                                         1       214   283
Joong Ang Color Co.                     8078      Seoul        85   85    85   90                                                        5        97   123
Nyun Dai Glove Co.                      W079      Seoul        95   95    90   95                                                        -        IS    is
Je 11 Color Process Co.                 8080      Seoul        80   S5   85   85                                                         8       235   309
Doo Yang Industrial Co.                8081       Kyungg&      98   98    95   99                                                        7        33    36
Eun Sung Sa Co.                         W082      Prepaid
l;wang Sung Industrial Co.. Ltd.        8083      Kyungnam    85   90    85   90                                                        56      1.261 1.551
Shin 11 Industrial Co.                 8084       Kyunggi      95   95    95   95                                                        3        84    93
Su San Glove Co.                       8085       Seoul       90   90    86   90                                                         -        105   127
Kuk 11 Hosiery Co.                     8086       Seoul        90   95    90   90                                                        3        81    90
Dong Yang Car Dock Co.                 W87        Chunguam    90   90    85   90                                                         _        93   261                  1
Dae tyung Electronic Co.. Ltd.         Rs088      Kyunggi      90   90    90   90                                                        6       585   816                 U
Ran Sung Ind. Co.                      8089       Prepaid
Dong Kwang Se Co.                      8090       Pusan        90   90    85   90                                                                 168   270
Nirsui Co.. Ltd.                        W091      Kyungbuk    90   95    90   90                                                         2        136   298
Dae Hyung Industrial Co.               8092       Prepaid
Shin Shin Glove                        8093       Prepaid
Toe Back Textile Ind. Co.              5094       Seoul        90   90    90   94                                                        -         77   135
Kuk Je Mletal industrial Co.            W095      Seoul        95  100    90  100                                                        3        142   239
Young Jin Industrial Co.               8096       Kyungnam    80   85    80   8S                                                         2        159   341
Seung Woo Precision Co.                3097       Seoul        90   90    87   90                                                        4        247   378
Sam Yang Export Packing Co.            8098       Seoul        90   95    90   96                                                        2         53    76
Tong + n Jung Cong Sa                  8099       Kyunggi      95   95    90   95                                                       11        181   271
Vmm Jin Paper Tube Co.                 8100       Kyunggi    100  100    95   98                                                         2         13    22
Dong Chang Clove Co.                   B101       Seoul       90   90    87   92                                                         -         35    51
0.



ECONOMIC INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-                       ewoft  anisaim awm to miitiu   t as  baret    tatim.ted  gacimtaed
Subproject                                          t    ilin    e(mii)                     f         p1U        n1omIvalue adU
Subproj.ct                  projeet   Location    Estimate    Actual   Ibtimte    actual   tptel            Ql r       oas                      m       En
--* -ist-ZW   Tat-22d           ISL2  l      -         ieremetal la            m 
I.t  2.4   l.t  2.4  lug  2.    let  2.4   a.r~nabasis-yr.  ir.
yr.  yr.   yr.  yr.   ,r.  yr.   yr.  yr.    yr.  yr.    yr     .                (U -1il5i)
Kukain Wire Cut Center Co.            3102       Kyunsgi     90   90    90   93                                                       6        543   725
Chun long Electronics Co.             B103       Seoul       80   8S    85   88                                                       -        299   439
Sung Chang Glove                      B104       Kyunggi     90   90    85   90                                                       -         31    38
Kyung Sung Precision Co.               3105      Kyunggi     95   95    90   97                                                        1       399   577
Sei 1k Engineering S Electric Co.    3106        Choongnam   95   95    90   93                                                       4        123   212
Sm Sma Srwen Special PrintiuU 0.      B107       Prepaid
Tae vwang Clove Co.                   1109       Seoul       90   90    86   91                                                        1        21    38
Dong Yang Industry                    bllO       Prepaid
Se Ulyeong Industrial Co.. Ltd.       bil1       Kyunggi     90   95    86   94                                                        1        it    19
Dong-A Industry Co.                    3112      Choongnam   75   80    75   78                                                       4         29    47
Hogye Sang Ss                         3113       Kyunggi     95   95    92   96                                                       2          3     4
Sin Sung Ind.                         B114       Kyunggi     90   90    90   95                                                       11       754  1.236
Tee Jung Industrial Co.                B115      Choongnau   80   85    80   85                                                        2        31   47
Ileum -I   Electric Co.. Ltd.         3116       Prepaid
Sang 11 Industry Co.                  Bil?       Seoul       90   90    88   94                                                                 34     0
Doug Chang Industry Co.               B118       Seoul       90   95    92   95                                                        -        19    23
Tong Sung Se                          B119       Seoul       70   70    73   75                                                        2       19   244
Sang Shin Auto Maintenance Co.        B120       Kyungbuk    80   85    80   85                                                        I       127   161
Jin 11 Transfer Co.. Ltd.       B       121      Kyungnam    95   95    90   95                                                       4         47    62
Kyung Shin Chemical Co.               3122       Prepaid
Dae Sung Woolen Textile Co.           3123       Pusan       80   85    78   84                                                        5       283   401
Doe Jia Hosiery Co.                   8124       Kyungbuk    90   95    87   94                                                       4         64    91
Dong Chang Trading Co.. Ltd.          3125       Prepaid
Kleon Sel Clove Co.                   3126       Kyunggi     95   95    89   95                                                        2        27    41
Sam Kyns getal Ind. Co.               3127       Prepaid
Sm "Wa Food Co.                       3128       Choongnas  95   95    92   96                                                         1       727   820
Ta long Engineering Co.               11129      Seoul       90   90    90   95                                                        1        41    45
Chi
.                                    e to~~~~~~~L



ECONOMIC INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS
Sub-                    _     Cpity               OXSiim                      prt of  Diret         Estimated   t timttd
Z  l  ileptim      -pr          valuae adde
Subproject                    project   Location    Estimate    Actual  Getimate    Actual    19tal                     i ra                                   nt    a
so.                     Ts7t  .:d  Tlt   -z        e.t  2      id Est  2ud  bisI'%ziY    w?T9-       biI                    -
tr-   r.   Yrr   yrr. yr.         r.               r.   r.   yr.  yr.                    (   ill)
Daeyoung Coating Co.                       B130       Pusan         90   90    87   92                                                              3          q4   135
Shin No Sang Sa                           8131        Seoul         90   90    90   96                                                              4        311   734
Sag Blong Emblem Co.                       B132       Seoul         90   95    90   95                                                             10         195   259
Kyeong Bock So                             0133       Seoul         90   91)    89   94                                                             2         124   176
Sc Nyeong Induatrial Co.. Ltd.            8134        Kyunggi       80   85    85   90                                                              2        317   452
Wea Sung Neavy Equipment Co..  Ltd.    1335           Seoul         86   90    87   92                                                              3          79 8?
Oh Sung Electronic Co..  Ltd.        -      136       Ryunggl       95   95    92   97                                                             10         213   258
Hyun Doe Chemical Industrial Co.          8137        Kyunggi       80   85    85   85                                                              4         775   834
Se lvwang Ind.                            8138        Prevaid
Shin Hwa Ind. Co.                         8139        gyunsgi       80   85    84   90                                                              3         279   315
Jin Sung Machine Co.                      B140        Kyungbuk    80   85    80   85                                                                8         214   276
Jung Ent. Clinic                          8141        Seoul         85   85    85   90                                                              -          58    66
Ryung Shin Chemical Ind. Co.              8 B14       Choongbuk   80   85    83   85                                                                2        1.108 1.564
Sin 11 Industrial Co.                     8143        KyungUi       95   95    92   94                                                              2          55    64
W
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



CURRENT STATUS OF SUBPROJECTS
(unit: Milliio  won)
Sub-              CNB Vianeciug                hout matetaadiog                       ole   1ie                   Arrears
Subproject                                                                                         prec    ri ieg;_a         si  dule  la  tb  3 -6  omw6 
Subproject       ~project                coB                            co                                       a
go.           130      l ce   Total         I33     Resotces  Totl                   (P-)            3 -    _5           d
Sam li Textile Co.. Ltd.         A001       Prepaid
Dong Chang Textile Co.. Ltd.  002            510        100        610       379       100        479
Kyung Shin Chemical Co.          003       Prepaid
Doe Kyung Ind. Co.               004       Prepaid
Shin-Do Industrial Co.           006         408        200        608       337       200        537
Han Seong Sealing Co.            007       Prepaid
Sam twang Fabric Inlustrial Co. 008        Prepaid
Doe Seong Industrial Co.          001       Prepaid
Sam Dae Parts Ind. Co.           B002          79          -         79        60        -          60
Myoung 11 Electronic Co.         B003          115         -        115         67       -          67
Dae Jin Hosiery Co.              B004          44          -         44        29        -          29
Dae Yung Automobile Co.          B005       Prepaid
Ban Ook Hosiery Co.              B006          55          -         55        28        -          28
Young Map Model Co.              8008          20          -         20         10       -          10
Dong Jae Industrial Co.          B009       Prepaid
Seong Jin Precision Co.          8010         214          -        214       122        -         122
Hong Jin Industry Co.           BOIl           29         15         44        22         2         24
Shin Sung Vire Cutting Co.    B012          Prepaid
Sei Chang Machine Co.           8013           50         15         65        40         2        42
Korea Metal Co.                 B014           60         50        110        38        36         74
ToJin Ind. Co.                  B015           63          -         63        39        -          39
11 Shin Co.                     8016          135          -        135       137        -        137
Set Byal Scanning Lab. Co.    8017          Prepaid
Shin segye sound Co. Ltd.       8018          149          -        149       103        -         103
V~~~~~~~~



CURRENT STATUS OF SUBPROJECTS
(tbit: Eluiem Win)
Sub-                                                                                 l- Ui_ie  _tt  -        *tee
Subproject              erject                                             cm _                      t    M&-  *                    I *
t otal    am                     TOURoa                      am       =nw ma            m
Jang An Eabroidery Co.          8019          50         is        68        29        3        32
Nodong Stone Co.                s020         220        _         220       180       -        ISO
Dee "yung Electronics Co.       P121          35         8        43         39       -         19
Kea Precision Co.               3022          97        -          97        77                 77
Kuo  goo Precision Co.          8023       Prepaid
Ewang Jin Electronics Co.. Ltd 8024           84        50        134        67       13        80
Doeil Shinsun Co.               3025       Prepaid
Ryun Ree Mrk                    s026          42                  42         25       -         25
Dasil Shinsun Co.. Ltd.         s027       Prepaid
Taeguang Chemical Co.           8026       Prepaid
Seowon Co., Ltd.                B029       Prepaid
You "sn Jongil                  B030          26        -          26        13                 13
llhw  Lmber Co.                43031  .       23        21        44         14        4        is
San Kyang Enineering Co.        8032       prepaid
Dong Lim Chong Kong So          s033       Prepaid
Hirami Co.. Ltd.                3034          79        80        159        55       40        95
Dong Roon Industry Co.          N035          90                   90        53       -         53
Dong lyung Boring Co.  Ltd.      036         224                  224       103       -        103
Chun Kong Electronics Co.       8037          56        16         72        30        4        34
One Wang Textile Co.            8038          40        24        64         24        9        33
Nyoung 11 Electronic Co.        8039         207       122        329       143       64       207
Tae Ows Lost Co.                s40          163        50        213       139       14       152
Ryup Sung led. lMachinery Co.   8042       Prepaid
PMe Do Precision Co.            s043       Prepaid
Do  Yang RolI                   h044          52        -          52        39       -         39
Sei Ik Electric Co.. Ltd.       i4s           32        -          32        40       -         40
Samboo Production Co. . Ltd.    3046       Prepaid
Co



CURRENT STATUS OF SUBPROJECTS
(omit: fillim   )
Sub-              Cm F1i.ci.g           _            Outstaudig                                                Ar rears
Subproject              project               c                             cm                               d             gk 1       36-  6    G   Ta
so.          ISRD      e     ee  Total      IW       D 2e    Total                 (        r) am  3         m       -
Pung 11 Metal Co.                B047           39                  39         31       -         31
Hanil Comercial Co.              B048           24        _.        24         15       -         I5
Oasis Record Co.                 B039       Prepaid
Shin Rua Precision Co.           5050          84         -         84         53       -         53
Tee Yong Industrial Co.          W052           24        _         24         16       _         16
Ssnspyung Textile Co.            3053       Prepaid
ooil Id. Co.                     3054       Prepaid
Sowha Medical Supply Co.. Ltd:  3055          198                  198        139                139
Cigu Video Ind. Co. .Ltd.        3056          67         _         67         48       -         45
Shin Nan Last Co.                S057       Prepaid
Jeans Trading Co.                3058          22         -         22         14                 14
Hyun Jin Co.                     3059         234         46       280        171       13       184
hok RueRed Co.. Ltd.              W60         lot         -        lot        69        -         69
Ran Lis Industrial Co.           8061          29         _         29        24        -         24
Dreyang Precision Co.            W062          53         -         53        c.6       _         46
Jung-A Industrial Co.            3063          56                   56         39       -         39
Doe Joo Fine Chemical Co.. Ltd.  64           104        140       244        63        85       148
Dusan Clove Co.                  8065          24                   24         16                 16
Dong Chang Industry Co.          D66        Prepaid
Woo Seong Industrial Co.         5067          33                   33         26       -         26
Pyung RI& Ind. Co.               W08           32                   32        20        -         20
Shin Rwc Industrial Co.          0069         145        ISO       295        103       87       190
Shin An Clove Co.                3070          24                   24         i5       -         i5
Ulsan General Gas Co.. Ltd.      5071         113                  113        83        -         83
Unit#d International Co.. Ltd. W072         Prepaid
Ktyung Hua Enterprise Co.. Ltd. 8073           19         25        44         15       10        25
Hyundai Electroform 6 Die        8074          73         -         73        48        -         48
Dong tyung Boring Co.. Ltd.      5075         220                  220        49        -         49
II



CURRENT STAT1US OF SUBPROJECTS
(gait: nillios Ma o)
Sub-       Q        8 rimsbcia.               tuut oututeadia.                                                  Arreara
project                                                                                      Wi f  ftta  l  Im-  3 -      6 trd
r- -         J. BD    Rer   ev   Total      133      ResouM   Tot)   cm                             3 edA M
Na  Chang Run Kong So Co.         B076         105                  105         67       -          67
Dong-Nvang Precision Co.          B077         148         50        198       119       32        ISI
Joong Ang Color Co.               807d          46         34        90         38       14         52
Ryun Dai Clove Co.                s079          37         15        52         23        7         30
Je 11 Color Process Co.           3080          90         -         90         54       -          54
Doo Tang Industrial Co.           B081          47                   47         29       -          29
Eun Sung Sc Co.                   3082       Prepaid
Bvang Sung Industrial Co.. Ltd. 8083   /    228           700       928        164      466        630                                 19                 18      37
Shin It tndustrial Co.            8084          52         -         52         27       -          27
8u San Glove Co.                  B085          25         -         25         17       -          17
Kuk 11 Hosiery Co.                8086          71         -          71        52       -          52
Dong Tang Car Dock Co.            B087          90         -         SO         78       -          78                                  10                        10
Dfe Ryung Electronic Co.. Ltd. 8088             55         -         55         41       -          41
Ban Sung lnd. Co.                 8089       Prepaid
Dong$  vang Sa Co.                 090         115                  115         89       -          89
Iirami Co.. Ltd.                  8091          59         -         52         42       -          42
Doe Nyasa Industrial Co.          8092       Prepaid
Shin Shin Clove                   3093       Prepaid
Tee Back Testile Ind. Co.          094          25         -         25         17       -          17
uok Je metal Industrial Co.       809          230         20       250        194       16        210
Young Ji  Industrial Co.          8096          60                   60         42       -          42
Seung Woo Precision Co.           3097          75                   i s5       54       -          54
Sam tang Eiport Packing Co.    8098             65         -         65         54                  54
Tong Jin Jung Cong Sa.            8099          85                   85         80       -          sO
bum4in Paper Tube Co.            8100           28                   28         23       -          23
Doung Chang Glove Co.             5101          50                   50         39       -          39
Cukmin Wire Cut Center Co.        8102         241        100       341        199       78        277
Chun Kong Electronics Co.         8103         115                   15         68       -          68                                                                  0



CURRENT STATUS OF SUBPROJECTS
(Unit: millioa Won)
Sub-               C8C      ciu5                Aun.  awetauodiie                          AL-                       rresra
Subproject               project                cm                             Cm                   In   p       de              LF C        3- *  ocer O
am IS    aea*  ree   tet        law lTota Km          telo u)t
Sung Chang clove                  B104           51         -          51         37        -          37
Kyung Sung Precision Co.          B105          134         -         134        113                  113
Sei k Enginierieg & Electric Co.. Ltd B106       32         -          32         26        .          26
Sm SuM  Screen SPecial Printing Co.  8107     Prepaid
Tae Kwang Glove Co.               B109           42         -          42         30        -          30
Dong Yang Industry                B310        Prepaid
Se Hyeong Industrial Co.. Ltd  3Bil              49         -          49         37                   37
Dong-A Industry Co.               812           41         -          41         30        -          30
Rogye Sang Sa                     B113           50         -          SO         36                   36
Sin Sung Ind.                     8114          200         -         200        165        -         165                          *        8                 17       25
Tae Jung Industrial Co.           B115           29         -          29         24        -          24
Keum 8ua  Electric Co..  Ltd.    B116         Prepaid
Sang 11 Industry Co.              8117           35         -          35         29        -          29
Dong Chang Industry Co.           Bi8t           25         -          25         21        -          21                                                                       i
Yang Sung Sa                     Bl9            50         -          50         36        -          36
S-a Shin Autobinteoe Co.          8120           92         -          92         85        -          85
Jin It Transfer Co..  Ltd.        8121           50         -          50         37        -          37
Kyung Shin Chemical Co.           8122        Prepaid
Dae Sung  loolen Textile Co.    8123            117         -         117        100        -         100
Dae Jin Hosiery Co.               9124           56         -          56         47        -         47
Dong Chang Trading Co..  Ltd.   B125          Prepaid
Keon Seol Glove Co.               B126           46         -          46         39        -          39
Sam Swang Metal Ind. Co.          8127        Prepaid
Sam Hea Ind. Co.                  9128           57         -          57         53        -          53
Taee,ang Engineering Co.          B129           30         -          30         16        -          16
Daeyoung Coating Co.              3130          130         24        154        120        20        140
'Ti
0.
o r
t4 
ok



CURRENT STATUS OF SUBPROJECTS
(mit: 3ili~Me) b
Sub-               Cga  9iaesciaS              au.e  ogtag.iag owrar r-
Stbprojeet               project      low      Ca          Totl                CTB        T1t S                                Low  3n   3 - 6  cow 6      TOW
so.          * D         o_  ce   Tot-l      sm    Seoerce  iotel                     (vow    df)      3-_   _am         
Shin No Sang So                   B131           46         30        76         42        24        66
Sa  bong ESbles Co.               B132          268         50       318        229        35       264
Kyeong Bock Ss                    8133           91         -         91         68        -         66
Se Ilyeong Industrial Co.. Ltd. 8134.            73         -         73         66        -         91
So SuMng y Equipwunt C.. Ltd.    3135            99         -         99         91        -         38
Oh Sung Electronic Co..  Ltd.   B136             43         -         43         38        -
1~ftm Due OCical Inastrial OD.    B137          108    '  341        449        101       312       413
Se Hwonn  Ind.                    B138       Prepaid
Shin '4a Ind. Co.                 B139           90         37       127         89        37       126
Jin Ssng Machine Co.              8140          118         50       168        121        S0       171
Jung Eat. Clinic                  8141           25         -         25         25        _         25
Kyung Shin Chemical Ind. Co.   B142              49                   4 49       47        -         47
Sin 11 Industrial Co.            48143           4 44       -         44         44        -         44
Co
*Il
IM



TABLE 6.6
- 59 -
KOREA
THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROMOTION CORPORATION (SMIPC)
USE OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES
Time Spent In
Year       No. of Forelmn Consultants           Man-months by Foresgn Consultants
USA     Japan     Europe     Total      USA     Japan     Europe      Total
1967    7          12        6         2S      10.9      4.0        8.6       18.6
1906    *          26        6         89       6.6     10.9        2.9       20.4
TOTAL              16          88        11        64      17.6      14.9       6.5       88.9
of which:            No. of Foreign Consultants              No. ot All Consultants
Sub ctor        U-A                   Japan      urIopo    T     -ol     1987  1980       Total
Machinery         4         14          2        20          1       20          21
Motel             1          a          2         6          4        4           8
Eloctric/
electronics      8          7           -       10          1        9          10
Textiles          8          a          -         a          7        1          10
Cheicale          a         10          6        19         26       10          86
Others            1          1           1        8          -        8           8
TOTAL        16        88         11        64        89        47          86



TABLE 6.7
-60-
KOREA
THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROMOTION CORPORATION (SMIPCQ
OVERSEAS TRAINING OF STAFF AND TECHNICIANS
(Unit peroon)
1987             1988               Total
A. Overseas Training (Staff)
Machinory                                                           2                2
Metal                                                               2                 2
Eloetronics                                      1                  -                1
Ceralmc                                          1                                    1
Plastic                                          -                  1                 1
Dyeing                                           -                  1                 1
Automation                                       -8                                   8
Managemnt                                        -1                                   1
Subtotal                                   2                  10               12
Short Visit Training                             -                  4                4
TOTAL                                      2                  14               16
S. Destination (Staff)
USA                                              1                  4                 6
Woet Germany                                     -                  5 
Italy                                                               1                1
UK                                               -8 
France                                           1                  1                2
TOTAL                                      2                  14               16
C. Duration of Training (Staff)
Within     16 days-   1 month-    1 year
15 days    1 month    8 months    and over       Total
No. of trainees per period       8           2           7            4            18
D. No. of Technlciono (SUI's Employees) Tralnod
France     Norway      Total
Electronic                                 8          -           8
Marineo                                      -         2           2
TOTAL                               8          2          10



- 61 -                                TABLE 6.8
KOREA
THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROMOTION CORPORATION (SMIPC)
EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS OF EXTENSION SERVICES
SMIPC surveyed effectiveness of extension services by ma,I questionnaire
to random sampling 345 beneficiaries in 1989 so as to reflect cn the extension
services program in the future.
According to their report, the main effectiveness from extension
services can be summarized and quantified as follows:
(a) Effectiveness Fields of Extension Services
gi)  Process improvement and new manufacturing           s 65 cases
technique development
(ii)  Application improvement of machine facilities    : 65 cases
(iii)  New products development                            t 59 cases
(iv)  Reduction of inferior rates                         : 57 cases
(v)  Automation of manufacturing facilities              : 44 cases
(vi)  Saving of materials                                 : 24 cases
(vii)  Saving of labor cost                                : 20 cases
(viii)   Saving of energy                                   s   2 cases
(ix)  Others                                              s   9 cases
TOTAL                                          345 cases
(b) Preference Fields of Extension Services
{i)  Plant automation                                    : 115 cases
(ii)  Fpw process and manufacturing technique
development                                      t 104 cases
(ii)  Process improvement                                  : 72 cases
(iv)  Quailty upgrading                                   s 52 cases
(v)  Others                                              s   2 cases
TOTAL                                          345 cases



TABLE 6.9
-62 -
KOREA
THE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROMOTION CORPORATION (SMIPC)
STATUS OF COST RECOVERY
By the Project Agreement between IBRD and SMIPC, SMIPC should levey,
by December 31, 1987, a charge of at least 30 percent of the direct cost of
extension services provided by foreign consultants and without other agreement
between both organizations, Pach year thereafter increase the charge levied by
at least 10 percent. Therefore it was aimed at 40 percent in 1988 and 502 in
1989 respectively.
Actually cost recovery ratio resulted in 16.5 percent in 1987, 17.6
percent in 1988 and 23.0 percent in 1989. Contribution to be paid by SMI also
has been increasing little by little. From 1989 SMPIC has levied full direct
cost on the company which has been serviced over 30 days, as shown below.
Year                          1987       1988      1989
Target                               30.0      40.0        50.0
Actual                               16.5      17.6        23.0
(increase rate 2)                              (6.7)      (30.7)
(In'000 Won)
Contribution Paid by SMI               1987            1988               1989
Small   Medium   Small   Medium
Within 20 days                        70         70      85        70       85
21 days through 30 days              100       100      150       140      170
31 days through 40 days              100       100      150)
Full Direct Cost
Over 41 days                   200       200      300)
And cost recovery plan was estimated according to taking into
consideration of price inflation of Korean economy. But SMIPC, which was
founded and performing government policies for SMIs in Korea, could not
reflect the price inflation right away each year. Because the high increase
rate of cost recovery ratio decreases the number of small and medium companies
wbich wants to get consulting services from SMIPC more than the past.
SMIs in Korea which were benefited the extension services are
inferior to large enterprises in size, managerial capabilities and finance.
Therefore to inctease cost recovery ratio, facility installment loan and high
class manpower should be offered to SMIs continuously.
However, SMIPC will try to recover the direct cost. SMIPC will
increase charge levied year by year and the ratio will be decided according to
actual circumstances of Korean economy. The agreement between IBRD and SMIPC
vill be a good guide deciding it.



PROJECTED AND ACTUAL INCOME STATEMENTS, 1986-1989
1 9 8 6                       1 9 8 7                       1 9 8 8                         1 9 8 9
Projecte      Actual          Pro3ected     AculProlected                  Actu l           Projected    Acta^
Interest on local currency loas            396,939       334,638          489,025      373,756          610,098       427,1C4                        522,950
Interest on foreign currency lo ne           11,144        9,972           15,304        9,314           20,679         4,404                          3.505
Intereat on depoits witb douentic            22,905       31,523           25,830        33,830          28,620        37,176                         28,640
bmbs
Interest on securities                       52,200       74,236           59,040       97,790           65,520        94,390                         79,257
Interest on call loan                         1,300        1,940            1,300         1,488           1,300         1,196                          4,918
Total Interest loco e                                    452.             590.499       16.17S          726.217       564.270                        639.270
Dividends on lnveatnents                        150          -                150           -                150          -                               -
Fees  nd comIssions                          15,600       25,799           20,300        37,008          26,400        45,663                         66,104
Otber income                                 22,391       50,880           25,400        53,010          32,400       104,435                         137,193
Oroa ae                                      521.629      528.988          636.349       606.196         785.167       714.36                           42567
Interest on deposits                       268,513       289,992          305,978      340,296          355,145       393,582                        419,752
Interest on borrowings from BO/ Gov't.    12,587          7,945           17,584        11,147          24,152        21,298                         26,976      0
Interest on foreign borrowings                9,287        9,092           12,753         7,600          17,233         2,962                          2,078
total Intaret Ex_un                         290.387      307.0Z9          336.315       359.043         39S530        417.842                         448.6
Contribution to Credit Guarantee Fund         5,037        3,625            6,266         4,086           7,802         5,083                           6,000
General aduIniatrative expenses             158,511      155,862          174,362       172,784         191,798       202,572                        249,312
Otber expensea                                8,600       30,308           10,300        24,874           12,400       28,694                          48,449
Total Exwnene                                462.535      496.824          527.243       560.787         608.530       654.191                         754.496
Income before Provisiona & Taa                59.094       32.164          19.. 106       45.40.         176.637        60.17                          9017
Provisions for doubtful loans                  1,257        2,549            1,551           -              1,958        1,893                           1,929
Income Before Tax                             57.837       29.616          107.555        45.409         l74.679        58.284                         88.071
Tax                                          14,459        15,749          26,889        16,442           43,670       25,656                          43,500
Nt Ino                                        43378         13,866          80.666        28.967          131a          322                             44.571



PROJECTED AND ACTUAL BALANCE SHEET, 1986-1989
1  9 8 S                      1 9 8 7                       1 9 8 8                         1 9 8 9
Ae ot 31 December                Proiec         Actual         Proecd         Actual          Proiected     Actual           Projectd       Actual
Current Asset
Cash and C1mecks                    275,000       236,201          330,000      380,709          396,000       509,047                        627.469
Due from Bank of Korea              153,705       176,396          184,795      287,055          218,305       439,873                        805,884
Deposits witi  other                 92,000        84,787           89,000      179,488           76,000       135,532                        109,294
domestic bank
Short-term loans:
Business loans                    666,000       431,767          825,000      609,883        1,031,000       556,332                        642,890
General populace loans            415,000       454,426          518,000      349,395          648,000       589,713                        695,884
Total Short-Termoajm              1.081.0         886.193        1.343000       959.278        1.679.000    1.146.045                       1.338.774
Securities and call-loans           644,000       682,849          718,000      858,690          788,000       716,015                        676,856
Other current assets                223,851       461,651          281,050      697,879          360,276    1,068,001                       1,153,485
Total Current Assts                 2.469.55      2.528.077        2.945.845    3I3f3f           3.517.581    4.014.513                       4.711.762
Medium-ILonf-term AsetS
Term loans:
General populace                 1,768,000    1,216,028         2,210,000    1,579,638        2,761,000    1,628,674                       1,994,420
Working capital                    983,000       731,719        1,201,000      686,133        1,483,000       960,507                      1,186,234
Domestic currency equipwet         216,000       146,812          286,000      235,505          375,000       273,040                        243,096
Foreign currency equipment         114,716        84,238          157,616       53,778          213,405        39,996                         32,471
Total Term Loan                    3081.716    2.178.797          3.854.616    2555054          4832405    2902217                           3.456.221
Less: Provisions for doubtful loans  14,063          3,180           14,578         1,312          15,242         2,002                          2,435
get Tern Loan  Forttolio           a.067.653    2.175617          3.840.038    2.553.742        4.817.163    Z2900215                        3.453.786
Otber medium-/long-term assets       278,000       516,518          328,000      454,500          388,000       504,213                        549,195
Fixed Annet
Premises and equlpment(let)          151,400       135,208          171,000      146,997          195,000       187,797                        226,982
TWAEL ASSET                           S.M. 96AM!   5355.420         7.284.883    6.518.38         8.917,.744    7.606.738                      8.941.725
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ott..
F  '



PROJECTED AND ACTUAL B4LANCE SHEET, 1986-1989
1986                         1987                          1988                           1989
As of 31 December                   Pr*kectad     ActL.           ProJectI      Act.al         Pro.iect      kkNDl            ProJected      Actual
LIABILIT1  ID A   IM I!
Current Liabilitiee
jatual installment  ailings              36,000       19,348           45,000       21,161           56,000       29,690                         38,761
Demand Deposits                       1,611,000      934,550        2,149,000    1,285,119       2,670,000    1,656,278                       2,196,878
Time and savings deposits             1,352,000    1,673,939        1,489,000    2,114,955        1,636,000    2,562,634                      2,673,706
Property formtio  sav*ing                29,000       10,518           29,000        6,907           35,200        4,829                          2,575
deposits
Sub-total                             3.028.000    2,638.363        3.tllJaD     3.428.142       4,397.0@      4,253,431                      4ki911EZ
Short-term borrowing                    167,000       73,299          234,000      117,076          328,000      148,779                        189,810
Otber current sturitie                 396,000      516,798          475,000      618,542          570,000      663,388                        750,535
Total Current Maturities                3,591        3.228.460        4,420.co     4.163.10         5dg5.000 5L65.5D                           5L852.26
lNedi-/Lonf-tere Liabilities
Mutual installment saving            1,200,000      897,877        1.500,000      914,438        1,875,000    1,034,950                      1,333,547
time and savings deposits               174,000      196,193          191,000      272,442          211,000      345,687                        567,912
Property formation savings             593,000       719,332         598,000       825,106         717,000       752,426                        705,402
depeits
Total Term Denomitn                   1972         Lu13.392         2.289.000    211986          2.803.000    2.133.063                       2.606.861 
Borrowiugn
Local currency borrowins               76,800       35,310          102,500       43,550         136,000        58,187                         78,522
IND                                   60,146        47,117          74,886        33,366         101,138        17,918                         11,545
ADB                                    54,570       33,975           73,010       15,739          84,321         5,840                          2,947
OECF                                     -            -               9,720         -             27,945         8,946                         14,235
Total term borrowinti                   191.516      116.402          260.116       92.655          349404        90.891                      _1 0724
Other long-term liabilities                -           13,704             -         14,483              -         32,825                         23,855
Total Medium-iLons-teru Liabilities    2,163.516    1.%43498          2.549.116    2,119.124       3.152404    2,256.779                        2737.965
Provisions for Retirement Grants           53.697       73.762          61.579        93.fi9          69.949       114.122                        141.198
Iaini2
Paid-In Capital                          86,131       82,223          101,131       96,001         116,131        96,001                         96,001
Captal surplus                             -           6,103             -           6,103             -           6,103                          6,103
Reserves and retained earnings           72,265       37,377          153,057       39,681          284,260       68,135                        108,193
Total Sanity                              158.396      109.700          254.188      141.785          400.391      170.239                        210.297
lOYAL LIABILITIES MD      T               5.96S69    5.355.42           7.2 U883    6.51,338          8.917.744    7.606.738                      8.941.725
out.



PROJECTED AND ACTUAL FINANCIAL RATIOS, 1986-1989
1986                         1987                         1988                           1989
Proteete     Actual          projeetl      hctn l         ProJected    Actuel            Projected    Actoal
T . total Assets                            5,960.0      5,355.4          7,274.2      6,518.3         8,901.4      7,606.7                       8,941.7
Of Which:
SMort-term loans                     1,081.0         886.0         1,343.0        959.3         1,679.0      1,146.0                        1,338.8
Medium/long-term loan                3,074.9       2,178.8         3,844.2      2,555.1         4,816.5      2,902.2                        3,456.2
Deposits with other banks              271.0          84.8           303.0        179.5           333.0        135.0                          109.0
VDeposit and Long-Term Debt
Deposite (less than I year)           3,072.0       3,378.5         3,711.0      4,282.4         4,397.0      5,083.3                        5,931.9
Deposits (more than 1 year)           1,972.0       1,073.3         2,289.0      1,157.7         2,803.0      1,303.2                        1,586.9
Long-term debt:
S/Oovernment/AnD/IUBD                  243.8          93.6           336.5         74.2           461.3         72.9                           81.4
Equity                                   158.3         109.7           253.9        141.8           399.9        170.2                          210.3
Debt-Equity Relatiomhip
Total debt/equity ratio    otj         36.7:1        47.8:1          27.7:1       45.0:1          21.3:1       25.3:1                         41.8:1
Long-term debt/equity ratio             4.7:1        6.6:1            3.4:1        5.4:1           2.9:1        4.9:1                          4.3:1
Cumr t Rtio
Current ratio      ML                  1.09:1         1.1:1          1.09:1        1.1:1          1.09:1       1.05:1                          1.1:1
U. Gross ineome as Sof average                  9.6          10.7             9.6         10.2             9.7         10.1                           10.2       1
total assets                                                                                                                                              0
oisaclil expense as S of                   5.3          6.2              5.1          6.0             4.9          5.9                            5.4
sverage total saste
Gross apread (gross Ine-                   4.3          4.5              4.5          4.2             4.8          4.2                            4.8
fitnncial expenes)
income before provision  and tax           0.8          0.7              1.2          0.8             1.6          0.9                            1.1
as S of average total asts
Inco me after provisions sad tax           0.8          0.7              1.2          0.8             1.6          0.9                            1.t
as S of average total assts
lncome after provisions and tax           33.7         32.7             39.2         36.1            40.1         38.6                          47.3
as S of average equity
General administrative expense             2.9          3.2              2.6          2.9             2.4          2.9                            3.0
as S average total assets
o11



PROJECTED AND ACTUAL FINANCIAL RATIOS, 1986-1989
9 a6                          eu87                 _          988 19a9
ft aw         ProJecte                     Actual Projete  Actual        ProJise   clpoeete            8ctuo1
Cost of deposits  s s of average         5.8          7.0              5.6          6.9             5.4          6.7                            6.0
deposits outtanding
Cost of foreign curreny debt            10.0          11.8            10.0         11.7            10.0          7.2                            6.8
a  I of average foreign currncy
debt outstndling
Ince from busines  loa_s as I of        10.9         11.6             10.8         11.4            10.8         12.6                           11.6
werae busine  loon outstanding
Dook value an S of pwr value             194           133             261          148             345          177                            219
1_om, fro  poplace loan a  S            10.9         11.5            10.9           10.5           10.8         11.4                            12.0
of average populace loam
outstanding
Inwoe from foreign currency             12.0         12.9             12.0          14.5           12.0          9.4                             9.4
loam as I of average foreig
currency loans outstanding
I
MkL   Long-term debt * long-term guarantees + current maturities - re_unerated *utual installment savings - installment sa ings received under             Ot
the loans on installment savings - loans covered with time deposits, installment savings deposits, mutual installment savinga deposits
and workers' property formation savings deposits to total unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and reserves. 
gU    Current assets + current maturities - remunerated mutual installment savings to current liabilities + current saturities - remunerated
utual installment savings.



COLLECTION PERFORMANCE. 1986-1989
Overdue           Maturing during            TotaI during the Year                   Actual collection             Collection rate(X)
Prin-     Inter-         the Year                                                                                       Prin-   Inter-
cipal     est      Principal  Interest    Principal  Interest        Total      Principal  Interest        Total        cipal   est      Total
I  Domestic
Currency
Loans
1 9 8 6      41,236   7,054    2,135,592   345,451    2,176,828   352,505   2,529,333    2,133,898   334,638    2,468,536            98.0    94.9       97.6
1 9 8 7      42,930   5,914    2,223,732   375,925    2,266,662   381,839   2,648,051    2,223,211   373,756    2,596,967            98.1    97.9       98.1
1 9 8 8      43,451   8,083    2,653,499   426,503    2,696,950   434,586   3,131,536    2,661,997   426,548    3,088.545            98.7    98.2       98.6
1 9 8 9      34,953   8,038    3,033,139   517,030    3,068,191   525,068   3,593,160    3,031,819   517,862    3,549,681             98.8    98.5      98.8
n. Foreign
Currency
Lans
I 9 8 6        1,819   1,063        16,094    11,012        17,913    12,075       29,988        13,854      9,972        23,823      77.3    82.6      79.5          
1 9 8 7        4,059   2,103        47,628     8,991        51,687    11,094       62,781        47,315      9,314        56,629      91.5    84.0      SO.2
1 9 8 8       4,372   1,780         31,009     3,871        35,381      5,651      41,032        29,829      4,404        34,233     84.3    77.9       F3.4
1 9 8 9       5,652   1,247          8,649     2,696        14,201      3,943      23,867        12,440      3,505        21,033      87.6    88.9     88.1
O . Tbtal
1 9 8 6      43,055   8,117    2,151,686   355,463    2,194,741   364,580   2,559,321    2,147,752   344,610    2,492,362             97.9    94.5      97.4
1 9 8 7      46,989   8,017    2,271,360   384,916    2,318,349   392,933   2,711,282    2,270,526   383,070    2,653,596            97.9    97.0       97.8
1 9 8 8      47,823   9,863    2,684,508   430,374    2,732,331   440,237   3,172,568    2,691,826   430,952    3,122,778            98.5    97.9       98.4
1 9 8 9      40,505   9,285    3,041,788   525,449    3,082,392   534,734   3,617,027    3,044,259   526,455    3,570,714             98.8    98.5      98.8
I4



ANALYSIS OF LOANS IN ARREAR, 1986-1989
1 9 8 6                        1 9 8 7                      1 9 e 8                         1 9 8 9
N-   ber     Amount           Number.    _^out              Number        Amount            Number       Aaunt
A. Portfolio 8tato
Total loans ontstanding                    875,505    3,064,990          917,358    3,514.332          930,046    4,048.262          1,018,861    4,799,995
Less: Outstanding loans in                   2,499       97,169            3,816       114,019           4,107       140,272             4,723      200,389
grace period
Loans in repaysent stage                   873,006    2,967,821          913,542    3,400,313          925,939    3,907,990          1,013,138    4,599,606
Outstanding amount of                      147,128      365,719          135,596       409,458         112,702       389,264           104,001      387,876
loans affected by arrears
Principal                                  147,128       46,988          135,596       47,823          112,702        40,505           104,001       38,034
Interest                                       -          8,017              -          9,863              -           9,285              -           8,279
Total Arrerar                              147.128       55.006          135.596        57.686         112,702        49.790           104.001       46.313
Loans affected by arrears                      -           11.9               -           11.7             -             9.6              -             8.1
an S of total loans
outstanding
Total arrears as S of total                    -            2.2               -            1.6              -            1.2              -              1.0
loans outstanding
Total arrears of principal                     -             1.6              -            1.4             -             1.2              -              1.0
as S of total loans in
repaywent stage
Collection rate (2)                                                                                                                                                 a'
Principal                                     -           97.9               -          97.9              -            98.5              _            98.7        '0
Interest                                      -           94.5               -          97.0              -            97.9              -            98.8
Tgtal                                         -      .. 97.4                 -           97.8                          98.4              -98.
B.  Uesebsdulinf  *d Write-of f
Loans rescheduled                            3,789       47,815            3,713       47,709            3,841        50,586           4,263         54,232
Loans written off                              -              1.2             -              1.4         1.447         1,695           1,601          1,526
C.  Adins of Loan Arrears as of                                     Outstanding  loans
December 31.1989                      Rugber              affectted by arrears            Total principal arrears
1-3 months                               81,481                   254,372                             19,554
3-6 months                                14,018                    98,764                             6,490
6-12 months                               3,826                     19,313                             3,552
Over 12 months                             4,676                    15,427                             8,438
D.  Los Asoust  Consl,Med to
the Sores Dedi.ztment                           3        1,359                8        2,252               12         4,418               6          2,174
Comnration for Collection



TABLE 7.6
70-                              PPage I of2
Resources Position as of December 31,1989
1 * h   ist  MnrweOu zoRtmor, (Von millioml
Amount
A. Logn-Tket Resources
Equity: Paid-in capital                                              96,001
Reserves and retained earnings                             114,296
zgTQ&    EauLtv                                                210I297
Borrowings: Government  oDL                                          17i921
B0o                                                     39,142
Deposits    M.L                                      1,586,886
Total Borrowings                                             1,643 951
Total Long-Term Domestic Currency Resource.                      1,854 248
Less:  Term loans outstanding        oD                          1,330,021
Fixed assets (net)                                          226,982
BOK's reserve requirements                                   63,705
Other Long-Term assets                                      199,591
Total Long-Term Lendina and Investsents                          1,820,299
Long-Term Resources Available for further
Disburse_ent
B. Short-Term Resources
Deposits                                                         5,931,893
Short-tern borrowings from BOK and Other banks                      211,269
Total Short-Tern Posestic Currency Resources                     6,143 162
Less:  Short-term loans outstanding                              3,435,503
BOR's reserve requirements                                  574,571
Total Short-Tere Lending and Investments                         4.010.074
Short-Term Resources Available for further
Disbursement-                                                    ,133 088
-             C.  Total Domestic Currenc! Resources
Total long-term resources                                         1,854,248
Total short-term resources                                       6,143,162
Total Domesti Currency kesourcer                                 7,997L410
Less:  Total long-term lending and investeents                   1,820,299
Total Short-term lending and investments                  4,0;0,074
Sub-Total                                     5,830,373
Total Do me tic Currency Resources Available
ftor Further Disbursement            -2.167.037



SABLE 7.6
71-                           Pag(&2 of 2
2    F1ogien Currency (US mi lion)
Uncomnitted resources (as of end of previous year)                      7
Borrowings from (for the current year):
IORD                                                               _
ADB D
Other                                                              50
Total Foreig  Currec  Resources                                        57
New loan commitments (for the current year)                            17
Quarter-End Foreign Resources Position                                 40
WL   Net of current maturities



