Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repowt N. P-3696-GB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE-
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 16.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN
EXPORT RERABILTTATIoN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 12, 1983
This docunt has a riesred dslmalb and may be used by recipients only in the pofefnace of
thewr Uffi. duties. ts coteaats omy nt oeheiws be dislosd witkout Woid Bank authoration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      Cedis
US$1              =      30 Cedis 1/
1 Cedi            =      US$0.36 17
US$1              =      SDR 0.944037
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Ghana: January 1 - December 31
(effective January 1, 1983)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGC       -  Ashanti Goldfields Corporation
CSD       -  Cocoa Services Division
ERP       -  Export Rehabilitation Project
FAO       -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FPIB      -  Forest Products Inspection Bureau
GCOB      -  Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GPA       -  Ghana Port Authority    -
GTMB      -  Ghana Timber Marketing Board
MLNR      -  Ninistry of Lands and Natural Resources
NIB       -  National Investment Bank
PNDC      -  Provisional Nationall Defence Council
SGNC      -  State Gold Mining Corporation
SSVD      -  Swollen Shoot Virus Disease
TEDB      -  Timber Export Development Board
1/   Effective October 10, 1983.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Ghana
Amount:          SDR 16.2 million (US$17.1 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
ProJ ect
Description:    The proposed project aims at strengthening the institutional
capability of the key organizations in the export sector so
that they can play effective roles in rehabilitation of the
export industries. Specifically the proposed project would
provide about 120 man-years of technical assistance to assist
the Government in implementing a number of export sector
policy and institutional reform measures; to carry out related
sector studies; and to build local capability through staff
training. The proposed project also aims at ensuring adequate
management capacity of the cocoa, timber, gold mining
organizations and the ports authority to execute the proposed
Export Rehabilitation Project. The proposed project entails
the risks that the institutional objectives are not fully
achieved due to the generally difficult country economic
situation and demoralization of local staff and that there are
delays in recruiting technical assistance personnel of
required calibre. To minimize the risk, early actions are
being taken by Government to expedite appointment of technical
assistance personnel and to improve the living conditions of
local staff.
Executing
Agencies:        The Government of Ghana, Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board (GCMB),
State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC), and Ghana Ports
Authority (GPA).
Relending
Arrangements:   Approximately $14.2 million equivalent of the proposed Credit
for the Cocoa, Gold Mining and Port Sectors would be onlent by
the Borrower to GCMB, SGMC, and GPA as loans with a repayment
period of 15 years after 5 years of grace. Such loans would
be made on an interest free basis until such time as the
respective agencies become financially capable of paying
appropriate interest on the loans. The Government would
retain the remaining proceeds of the Credit to carry out the
technical assistance component for the timber sector.
This document has a rcstricted distnrbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfoi nance of
their cmTicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/
- - --US$ million------
Foreign   Local   Total
Cocoa Sector                     3.8       0.6      4.4
Timber Sector                     2.0      0.3      2.3
Mining Sector                     7.4      0.9      8.3
Port Sector                       0.6      0.3      0.9
Project Preparation
(under PPF)                    0.3        -      0.3
Sub-Total                14.1       2.1    16.2
Price Contingency                 1.5      0.3      1.8
TOTAL                      15.6       2.4    18.0
Financing Plan:
Foreign   Local   Total
IDA                             15.6      1.5      17.1
Borrower                          -       0.9       0.9
Total                      15.6      2.4     18.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
USS million 
FY84     FY85      FY86     FY87      FY88
Annual               2.0      5.2       5.0      3.0       1.9
Cumulative           2.0      7.2      12.2     15.2      17.1
Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Appraisal Report:      None
1/   Net of taxes from which the project would be exempt.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED EXPORT REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to the Republic of Ghana of the equivalent of SDR 16.2 million (US$17.1
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a proposed Export
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic report entitled "Ghana: Policies and Program for Adjust-
ment" was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1983 (4702-GH).
Part I of this Report contains the principal findings of the report. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are sunmarized in Annex I.
3.       The Ghanaian citizens once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living
compared with citizens of most other West African nations. However, a declin-
ing gross national income has combined with high population growth (estimated
at 3 percent a year) to cause a substantial erosion in real per capita income.
At least 18 percent of the labor force is estimated to be unemployed, under-
employment is widespread, and almost half the population of 12 million is now
estimated to live in absolute poverty. The country's basic-needs indicators
now appear to be on a par with those of other Sub-Sahara African countries
with comparable per capita incomes. Thus, despite the growth in health faci-
lities, modern health services are available to only about a third of the
people and fewer in rural areas; only 35 percent have access to safe water.
Although the education system is well established and elementary education has
been free since 1962, 50 percent of adult men and 70 percent of adult women
have had no formal education.
4.       On December 31, 1981, Flight Lt. Rawlings replaced the Government
headed by President Limann. After a difficult first year in office during
which the new Government, Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC), essen-
tially pursued a holding strategy, recent policy measures announced by the
Government show a firm resolve to come to grips with the country's economic
problems.
1/ This Part is the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Export Rehabilitation Project which is being submitted to the Executive
Directors for their consideration simultaneously with this proposed
project.



- 2-
Basic Structural Characteristics
5.       Ghana is endowed with considerable natural and human resources.  The
country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold, but also diamond,
bauxite and manganese. The large hydroppmer potential has only been partly
tapped to generate electric power for the country as well as for export to
neighboring countries. Recently some oil deposits have been discovered and
off-shore oil exploitation is under way. Ghana has sufficient arable land to
grow various kinds of food cereals and starchy staples and possesses consider-
able fishing resources. The country is also rich in forest resources.
6.       Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for
about 51 percent of GDP, although only about 11 percent of the land area is
cultivated, divided equally between cocoa and food crops. Nearly 70 percent
of the population derive an income from agriculture or related activities.
The basic staple foods are maize, rice, millet, yam, cassava, and plantain
but, except for cassava, yields of these crops have stagnated. Food produc-
tion in 1980 was only 88 percent of that in 1975. Prolonged droughts in
1975-77 and 1982-83, inadequate support services, poor transport facilities
and lack of fertilizers and other inputs contributed to the decline. In the
last five years, Ghana has had to import 10 to 15 percent of its cereal
consumption (mainly rice and maize). Most foodstuffs other than cereals and
starchy staples are either unavailable or can be purchased only on the black
market.
7.       Ghana is typical of a developing country that depends on primary
products for exports. Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest
producer) contributes about 60 percent of total export earnings; production
has been declining, however, and world cocoa prices are depressed. Timber is
also an important export. Although production has been declining for the past
two decades, mining is still Ghana's second largest foreign exchange earner,
contributing 10 to 15 percent of the total. Diversification of the export
base, although emphasized by every Government over the past 25 years, has not
made much headway.
8.       Industrial production and services account for 17.5 and 32 percent of
GDP, respectively. Manufacturing--including textiles, steel, tires, oil re-
fining and simple consumer goods--contributed 9 percent of GDP in 1980 (down
from 14 percent in 1971) and provided full- or part-time employment to about
12 percent of the labor force. Manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily
dependent on imported inputs, however. As a result, the goal of import sub-
stitution through industrialization has met with little success and imposed a
serious burden on the economy.
9.       Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form of
crude oil, which is refined domestically and used chiefly as a source of fuel
for the transport sector. Recently, some oil deposits have been discovered
and commercial exploitation has commenced. Production of crude is now about
1,200 barrels per day, equivalent to 7 percent of Ghana's requirements.
Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's non-transport commercial energy
needs.



-3-
Recent Economic Developments
10.      Despite relatively abundant natural resources and human capital,
Ghana's economy has been ailing for many years. Prominent among the symptoms
are: declining per capita income, persistent high inflation, a greatly over-
valued exchange rate, widespread smuggling and other illegal economic acti-
vities, large public-sector deficits, a difficult balance of payments situa-
tion, low productivity, low domestic saving and declining investment, deterio-
rating infrastructure, severe under-utilization of productive capacity, high
unemployment, a brain drain of skilled professionals, skewed income distribu-
tion, and much-weakened institutions. Real GDP has declined every year since
1975, except for 1978, and real per capita income has fallen by 25 percent
since 1975. Per capita income in current prices was estimated at $350 in
1982. Per capita food availability is 30 percent lower than in 1975. The
reasons for these difficultLes are manifold. Political instability and
persistent mismanagement of the economy by successive Governments, an over-
extended parastatal sector, sharp increases in oil prices, adverse terms of
trade for Ghana's major exports, and declining export production are among the
most important factors.
11.      Inflation has been rampant since the mid-1970s.  The consumer price
index increased by an average of 80 percent a year after 1975, and reached the
triple digit level (116 percent) in 1981, despite extensive Government use of
price controls. Large public deficits, excess liquidity, and shortages of
goods all contributed to the rise in prices. Fixed wage earners and cocoa
farmers have suffered the most, while traders, import licensees, speculators,
and farmers with marketable crops have been the main beneficiaries.
12.      Budget deficits grew, as the Government proved unable to sustain a
program of stabilization begun in 1978, when Government expenditures were cut
by about one-third in real terms and the deficit was reduced to 5 percent of
GDP (compared with 12 percent in 1977). An increase in the minimum wage in
November 1980 and a serious shortfall in revenues--due to a dramatic fall in
cocoa duties to 5 percent of total revenues (from 47 percent in 1978/79) and
to a nizri-vying of the Government tax base--widened the deficit to 04.7 bil-
lion, or 10 percent of GDP, in 1980/81. 1/ In 1981/82, the deficit amounted
to about 05 billion--i.e., 50 percent of estimated expenditures for the year
and equivalent to the entire revenue collection.
13.      Balance of payments difficulties persist.  Capital inflows have vir-
tually dried up, due to political uncertainties. Commercial lending was not
feasible due to lack of creditworthiness and accumulation of large arrears,
while official aid was reduced in response to lack of action on macroeconomic
policy. Without capital inflows, imports and service payments were perforce
held to the level of export earnings, which were also declining in quantity
and value. Export earnings in 1981 were estimated to be 33 percent lower than
in 1980 ($766 million v. $1.1 billion). The overvalued exchange rate acted as
a strong disincentive to production for export, since the cost of production
far exceeded the price received at the official exchange rate. Overvaluation,
1/ Through 1982, the fiscal year was July-June.



along with shortages of consumer goods in rural areas, also resulted in a wide
variety of illegal and unproductive economic activities. Domestically pro-
duced and imported goods were smuggled to the Ivory Coast and Togo for sale
against the hard CFA, with tremendous losses (unofficially estimated at over
$100 million a year) to the country's external account. International reces-
sion also contributed to the poor export performance. Because of weak demand,
world prices of cocoa plummeted and prices of other primary exports were
equally unfavorable. The international oil crisis compounded Ghana's pro-
blems. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products preempted almost half the
country's export earnings.
14.      Ghana has held its current account deficit low (it actually showed a
small surplus in 1979), but at the cost of severely restricting imports. The
import-GDP ratio, which stood at 20 percent in 1974, declined to only 3.6 per-
cent by 1981 at the official exchange rate. This has created chronic and
extremely acute shortages of raw materials, spare parts, and investment and
consumer goods, resulting in stagnation in production and consumption and
sharp deterioration in the physical infrastructure. Production in the manu-
facturing sector is only one-fourth of installed capacity. An estimated
70 percent of road vehicles are presently out of service, while more than a
third of railway locomotives are awaiting spare parts for major repairs or
overhaul. The entire road network is deteriorating rapidly and is already
unusable in many places. All this has badly affected the export mining and
forestry industries as well as the efficiency of the ports.
15.      Capital formation was quite rapid in the 1950s, but became increas-
ingly negative thereafter. By the 1970s, gross investment averaged only
8.9 percent of GDP, suggesting that net investment may have been negative.
Gross investment is currently estimated at an extraordinarily low 2 percent of
GDP, compared to 21 percent for Sub-Sahara Africa as a whole. In an infla-
tionary environment, with very little scope for productive investment and
negative real interest rates for savers, domestic savings are also low--about
3 percent of GDP compared to 23 percent for the rest of Sub-Sahara Africa.
The binding constraint, however, is lack of foreign exchange rather than
domestic resources for investment.
16.      State enterprises have been assigned a large role in production and
distribution of goods and services ever since Independence. However, their
performance has been distressing both in terms of output and profitability.
They have generated serious pressures on fiscal and monetary policies. The
main problems are inefficient and frequently changing management, Government
control over prices, lack of required inputs, machinery and spare parts, heavy
overhead expenses on redundant labor, and lack of strict accountability.
17.      Ghana originally had a large reservoir of trained manpower, but in
recent years there has been a tremendous exodus of professional workers to
countries where salaries and living conditions are better. It is reported
that one-third of all secondary-school teachers have migrated to Nigeria,
Liberia, Sierra Leone and elsewhere. The outflow of managerial and profes-
sional personnel has further thinned the administrative talents at senior
levels of the civil service, which has been demoralized by relatively low
salaries, an economic system that penalizes them severely compared with other



- 5 -
segments in the society, and uncertain and adverse working conditions. On the
other hand, unskilled manpower is in oversupply, and redundancy and over-
staffing are special problems at lower levels of Government administration.
Economic Developments in 1982/83
18.      Soon after it came to power, the Rawlings Government took some extra-
ordinary measures to arrest the slide in the economy. These included demoneti-
zation to siphon off excess liquidity, and severe restraint on Government
expenditure and monetary growth. It was rewarded with some moderation in
inflation; the consumer price index rose only 30 percent in 1982, compared to
116 percent the previous year. The budgetary deficit during the last six
months of 1982 was contained at 02.5 billion--at least no worse than in the
preceding 12 months and lower in real terms and as a ratio of current GDP.
But this improvement was achieved at a substantial cost: the wage/non-wage
ratio of recurrent expenditures became more skewed and development expendi-
tures as a proportion of total Government spending declined significantly.
Furthermore, export earnings continued to slide (to $627 million in 1982) and
external capital flows, both official and private, slowed to a trickle. New
loans and grants from all bilateral and multilateral sources amounted to only
$45 million in 1982. Net transfers from all external sources were still
lower--$38 million, or enough to finance only 6 percent of the country's
already depressed imports. Consequently, imports had to be held to
$694 million, down by 35 percent over 1980. This is less than $60 per capita,
or about half the corresponding level for Senegal and one-fourth that for
Ivory Coast. In nominal value, non-oil imports were lower in 1982 than in
1974.
19.      The foreign exchange shortage, combined with the border closing,
dried up remaining supplies of raw materials and spare parts and reduced
production levels throughout the economy still further. Inadequate rainfall
exacerbated Ghana's economic problems. Cereal production registered a short-
fall of 332,000 tons. The Volta Lake Reservoir fell to an historic low,
resulting in the shutdown of all five potlines of VALCO Aluminum Smelter and
further reducing foreign exchange earnings. Furthermore, a steep fall in
world cocoa prices meant that the unit export value of cocoa in 1982 was only
$1,594/ton, 37 percent lower than in 1981. To make matters worse, some one
million Ghanaian citizens -- about 10 percent of the population -- were
expelled from Nigeria in early 1983 as a result of Nigeria's own economic
difficulties. Their requirements added severe pressure on the economy. Food
shortages became acute and market prices shot up. Absenteeism on farms, mines
and offices became more pronounced with adverse effects on productivity that
was low to begin with.
Economic Recovery and Short-Run Outlook
20.      On April 21, 1983, the Government announced the 1983 budget, a short-
term stabilization program, and a series of economic reforms, including a long
overdue reform in the exchange rate. A new system of export bonuses and
import surcharges resulted in de facto devaluation of 809 percent; subse-
quently, a unification of the exchange rate at cedis 30 per US dollar became
effective on October 10, representing a 990 percent devaluation since April



1983; and at the same time, the interest rates were adjusted upwards by 35 to
40 percent.
21.      The new economic recovery program is designed to begin the process of
correcting structural imbalances and rehabilitating the economy. If imple-
mented successfully, the program will realign relative prices in favor of
production and export sectors, reduce budget deficits and thereby the under-
lying inflationary pressures, and facilitate the flow of imports needed to
permit the growth of export production. Thus, among other important measures
announced in April were an increase in cocoa producer prices to provide incen-
tives to farmers, a doubling of gasoline producer prices as a step towards
more realistic pricing of petroleum products, greater balance in Government
budget and emphasis on productive sectors in the allocation of foreign and
domestic resources. Water, power, railway and telecommunication tariffs were
raised substantially. A price and incomes policy was instituted whereby the
minimum wage was doubled and civil service salaries were raised by an average
of 60 percent.
22.      The 1983 budget reflects the impact of adjustments in the exchange
rate and attempts to restore tax bases. Government revenues are expected to
rise from 04.6 billion in 1982 to 014.6 billion in 1983, an increase of
217 percent. The Government is also committed to eliminating subsidies to
public sector enterprises and keeping a tight rein on other expenditures.
Despite the increases in wages and salaries, therefore, the deficit is
expected to fall from 04 billion in 1982 to 03.4 billion in 1983 -- i.e., from
50 percent of the 09.2 billion spent in 1982 to 24 percent of a projected
expenditure of 018.1 billion.
23.      In the export sector, the changes in exchange rates and price incen-
tives will have a favorable impact, but it is unlikely that export earnings
will increase much in the immediate future. Cocoa exports, in particular, are
unlikely to respond quickly, since infrastructure constraints, inelastic world
demand, and agronomic problems related to past neglect will continue to
operate in the short run, and production and exports are likely to increase by
only 5 to 10 percent a year for the next few years. A more vigorous recovery
is projected for mining and timber, permitting total exports to rise from
about $582 million in 1983 to an expected $960 million in 1985, with con-
tinuing recovery thereafter.
24.      While the stabilization program will, with adequate external assis-
tance, provide some relief from the present economic crisis, it has also been
conceived as a first step in a longer-term process of returning the economy to
a more satisfactory growth path. Thus, a critical next step will be prepara-
tion of a comprehensive economic rehabilitation program to be initiated during
the stabilization period and continued for three to four years thereafter. A
program to rehabilitate the roads, ports, railway and transport infrastructure
will also be needed. Other necessary tasks include improvement of parastatal
operations, a review of the role of the private and public sectors, and
strengthening Government capacity for planning and economic management.
25.      Ghana's growth prospects beyond the stabilization and rehabilitation
phases will depend to a considerable extent on (a) the determination of the



- 7 -
Government to sustain the kind of economic policies it has now begun even
though some features may not be universally popular, and (b) an investment
plan that fulfills the key requirements of the economy. So far, the Govern-
ment has resisted all pressures to rescind or modify its economic recovery
program despite serious economic and political difficulties. But an immediate
inflow of food, fuel and other imports is essential, since shortages in these
areas could set back the Government's efforts to arrest inflationary tenden-
cies and thus erode the success of devaluation. A minimum import program of
about $1 billion f.o.b. is needed to begin the reconstruction program with
sufficient momentum, and this will require a substantial infusion of foreign
exchange, especially in view of the need to build up reserves and reduce
arrears. Also, allocation of these imports will have to be improved in order
to appreciably augment the supply of basic consumer goods, raw materials and
spare parts that are prerequisite to increasing export production.
26.      Beyond the short term, If the Government is able to maintain a more
realistic structure of prices and costs and a viable exchange rate, restrain
growth in public consumption, improve public revenue performance, reduce the
inflationary tendencies associated with large public-sector deficits, and make
a concerted drive to expand production and exports, particularly of cocoa and
minerals, through more appropriate price incentives, support services, and
more assured supplies of necessary inputs, it should be feasible to achieve
rates of real growth in excess of 4 percent a year (or one percent per capita)
after 1985/86. The attainment of even such a modest rate of growth after two
or three years would be a major turnaround. Of course, this presupposes a
more stable political environment than exists at present. It also presupposes
that Ghana's own efforts will be supported by an augmented flow of external
assistance. Ghana's needs for external capital over the next few years are
substantial and will call for a major effort on the part of the donor comr
munity. Unless concessional assistance is forthcoming, the possibility of
successful stabilization and economic rehabilitation will be seriously dimi-
nished and could adversely affect the country's stability.
Relations with IMF
27.      At the request of the Government, an IMF mission visited Ghana from
May 1 - May 25, 1983 to negotiate ad referendum, a stabilization program which
forms the basis for a one-year standby agreement. The elements of the stabi-
lization program have been discussed in paras. 20-26 above. The Executive
Directors of the IMF discussed the program on August 3, 1983 and approved a
standby agreement amounting to SDR 238.5 million and also approved a drawing
from the compensatory financing facility in the amount of SDR 120.5 million.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
28.      An agreement on a long-ternm rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all payments
due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obligations, are to be
paid over a period of 28 years beginning 1982, after a grace period of
10 years, at 2-1/2 percent per annum. Ghana's medium and long-term external
public debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1982 is estimated at US$1,192
million representing about 3 percent of GDP. The debt service ratio of public



and publicly guaranteed medium and long-term debt is about 9 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services and is expected to rise modestly
after the grace period on the rescheduled debt expires. Arrears on Ghana's
short-term debt increased from US$245 million in 1977 to US$489 million by
end-1978. By December 1980 these arrears had declined to US$332 million.
However, 1981 saw a relapse with arrears increasing by $142 million. By the
end of 1982, the short term arrears had accumulated to $580 million. The
economic recovery program aims to reduce these arrears in a phased manner.
29.      Ghana is relying on official sources for most of the external capital
required to support its development program, and relatively little of its
medium- and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms. Consequently, Bank
Loans and IDA Credits disbursed together represented about 22 percent of the
country's estimated public external debt at end-1982. Net transfers over the
last decade averaged $25 to $30 million per annum but were $7 million in
1982. Bank Group commitments on a per caplta basis amounted to $1.76 during
1977-82 and lending dropped to less than a project a year during this period.
Service payments on Bank Loans and IDA Credits in 1982 accounted for 25 percent
of the country's external debt service, but they are projected to decline to
17 percent of external debt service by 1987 as other sources of lending
revive.
30.      Ghana's extremely difficult economic conditions and its vulnerability
to fluctuations In cocoa export earnings make it desirable that future debt
service obligations be kept as low as possible. Consequently, Ghana will have
to depend on IDA resources for Bank Group borrowing over the next few years.
This is also consistent with Ghana's relatively low per capita Income. At the
same time, to help ensure a more adequate flow of foreign exchange Into the
country, it would be appropriate to finance some local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 1/
31.      Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 Loans totalling US$190.5 million and 21 Credits
totalling US$279.3 million. Included in the 21 Credits Is one whereby Ghana
is a beneficiary of a Bank-financed regional clinker project covering three
countries (T-%o, Ivory Coast and Ghana). There are no IFC investments. Annex
IT contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of
September 30, 1983.
32.      Power generation and distribution represents the largest share of
past commitments (27 percent) and the sector has been assisted by three power
generation projects and three power distribution projects. Bank Group in-
volvement in the sector started in 1962 with the Volta River project which
1/   This Part is the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Export Rehabilitation Project which is being submitted to the Executive
Directors for their consideration simultaneously with this proposed
project.



-9-
included the construction of the Akosombo dam, the country's first hydro power
plant (912 Mi) and the transmission grid. The project also helped to create
the Volta River Authority (VRA), the power generating company. Subsequent
Bank involvement in power generation included the Volta River expansion pro-
ject in 1968 and Kpong Hydroelectric project in 1977. In power distribution,
three Bank Group operations (in 1968, 1971 and 1977) helped to establish and
expand a low voltage distribution network and create the Electricity Corpora-
tion of Ghana (ECG), the powver distribution company. Cofinancing was a major
operation in our lending to the power sector and involved a number of donor
agencies including Arab Funds, European Investment Bank, European Development
Fund, Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), Development Loan Fund
(USA), US Exim Bank, and Export Credits Guarantee Department (U.K.). Along-
side power generation and distribution, griculture has been a major focus of
Bank Group lending, receiving 22.5 percent of the Bank Group's lending to
Ghana. The lending program in agriculture has covered fisheries (1969),
Eastern Region cocoa (1970), sugar rehabilitation (1973), livestock develop-
ment (1974), Ashanti Region cocoa (1975), oil palm (1975), Upper Region
agricultural development (1976) and Volta Region agricultural development
(1980). The main thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations in agriculture
has been to assist the country in achieving greater self-sufficiency in agri-
cultural production, particularly food and raw materials for agro-industries,
and rehabilitating the cocoa subsector. Earlier Bank Group projects in the
sector were directed towards development of specific subsectors with emphasis
on smallholder development, while starting in late 1970's, more emphasis has
been given to a broad-based integrated agricultural development. Two such
projects are currently under implementation, one in the Upper Region and the
other in the Volta Region, which aim to increase farm incomes and the standard
of living of a large number of smallholders by introducing improved farming
technology, providing farm support services and developing rural infrastruc-
ture. Major donor agencies which provided cofinancing in our agriculture
sector operations were Overseas Development Administration (U.K.), Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development, and Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa. The Bank Group is also executing a UNDP-financed
technical assistance project designed to strengthen the management and
operation of the Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board.
33.      Transportation is the third most important sector in the Bank Group's
program in Ghana (20.5 percent of commitments). Projects financed in the
sector include three road projects (in 1973, 1975 and 1980) and a railway
rehabilitation project approved in 1981. The road projects focussed initially
on rehabilitation and reconstruction of part of the country's main trunk road
system but, in light of rapid deterioration in the entire road sector prin-
cipally due to acute shortages of imported inputs, later emphasis was placed
on emergency maintenance to keep roads open for agricultural and export
traffic. An ongoing railway project which is cofinanced with African Develop-
ment Bank (ADB) seeks to remove the present transport bottleneck to Ghana's
traditional exports (cocoa, timber and minerals), for the movement of which
railways have a comparative advantage. A telecommunications project currently
under implementation aims at improving and expanding domestic telephone
services in Accra and major urban centers. In the field of water supply two
projects (in 1969 and 1974) have helped increase and improve the water supply
in the Accra/Tema metropolitan area and adjacent rural areas. The first



- 10 -
project helped expand the water supply distribution network and sewerage
system in the Accra/Tema area and the second project which was cofinanced with
ADB and CIDA included construction of a reservoir at Weija, a treatment plant
and a transmission pipeline. A third water supply project was approved by the
Executive Directors in March 1983 to help carry out emergency repairs and
maintenance on the pipeline from Kpong which presently provides two thirds of
the Accra water supply. The project also includes substantial technical
assistance to strengthen the management and operations of the Ghana Water and
Sewerage Corporation and to increase its capacity for improving water supply,
especially in the rural areas.  In the manufacturing sector, two DFC opera-
tions (in 1975 and 1979) have financed investment projects in manufacturing
and agro-industry undertaken by small and medium enterprises. The main
emphasis of Bank Group lending in this sector has been to encourage enter-
prises using raw materials and which are capable of contributing to foreign
exchange earnings and savings. A related objective for the DFC projects was
to strengthen the institutional capacity of the National Investment Bank
(NIB), Ghana's main development finance institution. The second DFC project
which includes cofinancing under an EEC Special Action Credit is providing
foreign exchange working capital to help increase capacity utilization of
priority enterprises, in addition to long-term capital investment. An energy
project aimed at strengthening Ghana's technical capacity to accelerate
petroleum exploration was approved by the Executive Directors in May 1983.
34.      The serious economic difficulties which the country has experienced
in recent years have adversely affected implementation of a number of Bank
Group financed projects. The dwindling revenue base of the Government has
constrained its ability to finance the local costs of projects, and the lack
of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported materials
and spare parts required for the operation and maintenance of projects; the
mass exodus of qualified Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and demoraliza-
tion, absenteeism and low productivity among the remaining work force have
also adversely affected project performance. The unusually adverse conditions
surrounding Bank Group financed projects and their generally poor performance
have been described in greater detail in the Project Performance Audit
Reports. Overall, the main conclusion of the Reports was that macroeconomic
and sectoral policy constraints were the major factors responsible for poor
performance of the audited projects. Because of delays experienced in the
implementation of a number of Bank Group projects in Ghana, the disbursement
performance is falling behind appraisal estimates. Annual gross disbursements
have averaged about 25 percent of outstanding Loan/Credit commitments and as
of September 30, 1983 US$162.6 million remain undisbursed. The Bank Group has
held periodic implementation reviews with the Goverament to identify steps
which could be taken by Borrowers and the Bank Group to accelerate disburse-
ment on ongoing Loans and Credits.
35.      The principal objectives which will guide the formulation of our
assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption of policies
designed to reverse the downward trend in the economy and return it to a path
of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and improve capacity utilization of the
country's existing assets; (c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial pro-
duction, particularly for export promotion and efficient import substitution;
and (d) to improve the country's essential infrastructure (transport, water,



- 11 -
power) so as to relieve-major bottlenecks to increased production. We also
planta sqg vant-ialk ncrease in our economic and sector work to broaden and
deepen:our.understSading of the constraints which are likely to impede the
recovery process, to provide direction to our future lending program and the
design oL pro4ect components. In both our lending and economic and sector
work atftiengtion will be given to ways of strengthening the institutions respon-
sible for economic management and development spending.  The Technical Assist-
ance project which is the subject of this report is designed to support the
Government's program to strengthen the institutions responsible for Ghana's
major export industries.
36.      In addition to the proposed Export Rehabilita ion Credit and the
Reconstruction Import Credit which was recently approved by the Executive
Directors, a more broadly based program of rehabilitation of the country's
economic assets will be required. In the near term IDA would support a
program to rebuild the network of trunk roads including major bridge recon-
struction and ports rehabilitation components, and provide assistance to
rehabilitate the power distribution system and the oil refinery. In agricul-
ture, further assistance to the development of oil palm production is envi-
saged as well as for cocoa given the overwhelming importance of this crop, at
least in the short term, for foreign exchange earnings.  In brief, projects
with major rehabilitation components are likely to absorb the bulk of Bank
Group resources for the next few years as these are likely to show the highest
benefits and quickest returns.  For the outer years, the Bank will begin to
examine prospects for new productive investments including support for educa-
tion, health and other important activities in the social sectors. The extent
to which the Bank Group can provide financial and technical assistance to
support such a broad-based program will be conditioned by the performance of
the Government in carrying through its economic recovery program.
37.      The Government of Ghana has requested the Bank Group to act as a
catalyst to help muster external assistance through cofinancing and more
generally in the context of strengthened aid coordination. At the request of
the Government, the Bank Group reconvened a meeting of the Ghana Consultative
Group on November 23 and 24, 1983. The participants of the meeting have
endorsed the Government's economic recovery program and it is expected that
the foreign exchange requirement for 1984 under the program will be sub-
stantially met by the donors' contributions.
PART III - THE EXPORT SECTORS 11
COCOA, TIMBER AND MINING
38.      If Ghana's current economic recovery program is to succeed and the
Government is to be able to sustain policy reform measures recently intro-
duced, it will be essential to generate positive supply response from the
It   This Part is similar to Part III of the President's Report for the
Export Rehabilitation Project which is being submitted to the Executive
Directors for their consideration simultaneously with this proposed
project.



- 12 -
export sector to restore the country's foreign exchange-earning-capacity.
Sustained economic recovery would require that the present. severe. shortage of
imported inputs be alleviated to rehabilitate the existing product$ve.assets
and improve utilization of the existing capacity. Since the expqrt-sectpr
remains the principal determinant of Ghana's import capacity, the Government's
economic recovery program assigns the highest priority to increasing export
earnings by arresting and reversing declining production in key export
industries.
39.      The Government of Ghana has introduced, for the first time, an
integrated foreign exchange budget that is announced at the same time as the
fiscal budget. IDA reviewed and was satisfied with the foreign exchange
budget for 1983. The foreign exchange budget presents the estimates of
expected inflows of foreign exchange based on export projections, aid dis-
bursements and other receipts. rhe outflows are orojected by taking into
account the import program, debt servicing and other payments. The set of
priorities reflected in the sectoral allocation of foreign exchange were
(a) export oriented sectors; (b) oil and petroleum products; (c) food;
(d) Government revenue generating activities; (e) other production sectors;
and (f) infrastructure. Of course, the foreign exchange needs of the economy
are so enormous that it was not possible to accommodate the full demands of
even these six areas. But the prioricization scheme underlying the foreign
exchange budget at least ensured that the most pressing needs were financed
adequately. The actual outcome of the budget will, however, depend on how far
the amount and the sources of financing assumed in the budget are realized.
The budgeting exercise is expected to provide some semblance of order in the
management of scarce foreign exchange. IDA has also reviewed the foreign
exchange budget for 1984 and has been satisfied that adequate allocations of
foreign exchange are made to meet the priority needs of export-oriented
sectors, including their infrastructure requirements. IDA will review the
foreign exchange budgets for 1985 and 1986.
40.      IDA has also reviewed with the Government the size and composition of
the 1983 development budget. The criteria goveining the development budget
were (a) completion of ongoing projects with special emphasis on infrastruc-
ture requirements of export-oriented and production sectors, and (b) adequate
counterpart financing of foreign aided projects. Although the amount ear-
marked for development projects is totally out of line with the identified
needs of the economy, the overall budgetary deficit ceilings had to be
observed while formulating the development budget. IDA has carried out a
similar review of the 1984 development budget with the Government and has been
satisfied with the budget. The main consideration in making this review has
been whether the export-oriented sectors are being provided adequate local
counterpart funds for carrying out their directly productive activities and
also for complementary investments in the supporting infrastructure. The set
of priorities in the sectoral allocation of foreign exchange as described in
the preceeding paragraph has also been a governing factor in this review
exercise; in particular, the complementarity of export oriented sectors and
Government revenue generating activities and infrastructure has been focussed.
A similar budget review will be carried out for 1985 and 1986. A successful
review of the foreign exchange and development budgets will be a condition for
release of the second tranche under the proposed Export Rehabilitation Project



- 13 -
(Schedule 1, para. 3 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the
draft Special Fund Credit Agreement for the Export Rehabilitation Project
(ERP)).
41.      Traditionally Ghana's export sector has played a significant role in
the country's economy, accounting for about a fifth of GDP and one third of
Government revenues and employing about 35 percent of the labor force. In
1980 total export earnings amounted to US$1.1 billion. Major exports are
cocoa, timber and minerals (gold, diamonds, manganese and bauxite) which
together constitute over 90 percent of total export earnings. As the table
below shows, there has been a substantial decline in the volume of exports
under these sectors during the last decade. Cocoa and gold exports in 1982
have been reduced to about 40 percent of the level attained in 1972 while
timber exports have declined to 10 percent. The following paragraphs discuss
the factors contributing to their decline and the Government's strategy for
overcoming both physical and policy constraints and reviving the production
and exports of these sectors. Table 1 (page 14-18) sets out in summary the
export sector policy and institutional reforms that the Government proposes to
implement in conjunction with the proposed Export Rehabilitation Project (ERP)
and the proposed Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project. These
reforms are discussed in detail in the following paragraphs.
EXPORT TRENDS OF SECTORS UNDER THE ERP
Export Index in 1982
1972     1975     1980       1982       (1972 - 100)
Cocoa (000 tons)              406      341       234      178 1/         43.8
Gold (000 ounces)             737      513       337      302            40.9
Timber (000 cu.meters)      1,006      605       185      111            10.9
1/ 1982/83 season
A - The Cocoa Sector
Recent Trends
42.      Cocoa is the predominant sector in Ghana's economy.  It generates
60 percent of export earnings, and 10 percent of GDP. It employs 24 percent
of the working labor force and takes up more than half of the country's total
land under cultivation. Also up until 1981, the cocoa sector provided about
one-third of Government revenues. In the mid 1960's, Ghana was the leading
producer of cocoa in the world, producing some 566,000 tons (1964/65), about
one-third of total world supply.



Table I
(Cocoa Sector)
Sector Issues                Pmposed Changes                       Justification/Benefits                   Tlmetable for Action
Producer Price               Oocoa producer price to be reviewed  Financi incentives to CoCoa farmars    Price increase proposal to MDA
amuially in consultatimn with mA;  arid increased production. Returns          by January 31, 1984 and agree-
a new price to be announced before   from cocoa production beccmn more         ment with ImD  by February 28,
March 31 each year.                  competitive with those from maize.        1984. Gbvernment  lmletation
of the agreed price by Mbrch 31,
1984 is a disbursaemt conditimn
for the cocoa sector Credit
allocation. Smilar consultations
anl agrement with ICA for subsequent
years.
An independent Cocoa Producer                                                  Oommittee to be eatablished by
Price Review Qmmittee to be                                                    January 31, 1984.
established, with fanmer and GCMB
representatives, to review and
determine producer prices.
Foreign Exchange             GCMB continues to be allowed to       Increased production through timely       StremnIJzd procedures to utilize
retain 10% of export proceeds        availability of imported inputs (e.g.    the retention funds recently intro-
for importation of recurrent         insecticides) and Improved efficiency    duced by the Government will be
inputs and essential spare parts.    in haulage.                              munitored by IDA.
Production Strategy          A long-term strategy and SwoUen    tong-rtm economdc viability of the           Production strategy, SSVD control
Shoot Virus Disease (SSVD) control  cocoa sector, with the aim of conso-       progran and compensation plan to
program to be established, concen-   lidating cocoa acreage by half and        be prepared by June 30, 1984 and
trating rehabilitation In areas not mDre than doublirg present average         then to he carried out acconding
yet infected; a compensation         yields.                                   to a timetable satisfactory to IDA.
systen introduced to encorag
replanting.
Sector Organization          GCMB and extension services of CSD  Improved operating efficiency of            Restructuring bas been initiated;
to be restructured as a cowmerciaL  GCMB; greater financial discipline;        completion of GCMB reorganization
entity. Outstanding GCMB debt to   accountability of management and            is a disbursement condition for
be switched to Govermnent long-      performance monitoring. After             the cocoa sector Credit allocation.
term loans with a grace period to    initial period, Gov't revenue to
enable GCMB to finance development   increase throaug  corporate taxes
expenditures.                        ard GCMB dividends.



Table 1
(Continued Cocoa Sector)
Sector Issues                Proposed Changes                      Justification/Benefits                    Tlmetable for Action
Staffing                     A five-year retrenchment program      Reduced operating costs of GCMBI.B        Staff retrenchment starting in
to be implemented, aiming at a       increased share of cocoa revenues         1984 in a manner ard according
aubstantial net reductici of         for farmers.                              to timetable satisfactory to IDA.
employees per anumu; adjustment                                                Adjustment assistance program t6
assistance for displaced workers.                                              be submitted to IDA by March 31,
1984.
Privatization                GOYM's cocoa plantations to be        Reduced operating costs and improved      Study of potential ard prooures
privatized by parcefling out along   efficiency by GCMB; long-term ration-    to be completed by June 30, 1984
present workers and/or selling to    alization of sector organization.         and action taken by Decmaber 31,
private investors.                                                             1984.
GCMB to divest its three cocoa                    ditto                        Study of divestment procedures
products factories and insecticides                                            to be aoopleted and action taken
plant.                                                                         by atwo  dates.
GCXB to prepare a progran to                      ditto                        Progran to be revide  with MDA
increase haulage of oocoa by                                                   by Jum 30, 1984, ard Inpein    ted
private tnrckers, especialy                                                    in a mwxr aid according to tIi-
from depots to ports.                                                          tabl  satisfactory to  ML
GQB to prepare a study eiaminirg                  ditto                        Study to be reswle  with
alternative cocoa marketing                                                    MA by Jun  30, 1985, and
arrangements, such as privatization                                            actio  taken by Derber 31, 1985.
or altiple buying.



Table I
(Timber Sector)
Sector Issues                Proposed Changes                     Justification/Benefits                   Timtable for Action
Sector Organization          GTMB aboltshed and to be replaced    Greater freedon and initiatives          TEnB to be established by
by an independient Timber Export     for milers and exporters to export;     April 30, 1984.
Development Board (TEDB) establi-   reduction in Government control
shed strictly as an export promo-   and interventicn in export proce-
tion body with representation of    dures; improved market intelligence
producing miUs as wel as (bv't.   and prxrDtion.
Control on Industry          Minlmun export price regulation      Increased timber exports and simpli-    Action oumleted.  Effective
abolished.                           fication of export procedures;           implmtati   of siipliffil
improved market oxnfidence in Ghana      procedures to be nrritored by IDA.
products.
Prior Govenament approval of                      ditto                               ditto
export contracts discontinued.
Grading and Inspection       Forest Products Inspection Bureau    Greater narket acceptability of Ghana   lb be estahlished by April 30,
(FPIB) to be establlshed as a self-  products; higher foreign exchange        1984.
regulating professional body to      earnings through avoidance of unier-
strengthen grading and inspection    1nwoicing; simplification of export
of export parcels.                   procedures.
Uniform timber grading rules to                   ditto                       Tb be acopted by March 31, 1985.
be adopted
Foreign Exchange             Ekisting procedures for retention    Increased production aid operating       Procedures have xeceitly bBe
of 20X of export proceeds            efficiency of mills through tinaly       streamUnlldi considerably. Further
streamlined.                         availability of xecurrent imported          Sf1CAti to be studied by
inpuits,                                M1nnh 31, 1984 and fmpleientaI by
Jum 3D, 1984.
State-onwne  companies       Alternative strategies for owner-   Laog-rwu  rationalization of sector       Stedy to be aooleted by
ship and mangement of state-owned  organization and increased viability       September 30, 1984; alternative
companies to be studied and          of the state-cand sub-sector.            strategies to be adopted by
adopted, including the possibility                                            December 31, 1984.
of privatization aid umnagmit
contracts.



Table I
(Continued Timber Sector)
Sector Issues                Proposed Changes                     Justification/Benefits                   Tismtable for Action
Concession Policy            A general reveiw of forest con-      optimal utilization of forest re-        Review to be carried out by
cession allocations to be carried    sources and increased export produc-    Jum  30, 1985 and action taken
out ard follow-u action to re-       tion.                                    by December 31, 1985.
allocate unontowmic concessions,
with priority to export producers.
-J



Table I
(Mining Sector)
Sector Isues                 Pposed Cages                         Justification/Benefits                   Timetable for Artion
Sector Organization         S9MC to enter into a mnagement        Increased managerial and technical       Signing of nunageint onitract
contract with an international       capability of SGMC through large-scale   prior to disbursement of the
mining oompany to manage             injection of expatriate nmnagers         niniqg axmpenxnt of proposed
SGWC mines as a comercial entity    necessary to implement the rebabilita-  Credit except for $5 million worth
tion program.                            of urgently reuired liDort item;
prelbinry ~wrk bas already begmu.
Foreign Exchange             Foreign exchange retention by S(MC  Increased production and operatirg        Streanlied procedures recently
increased from 20K to 35X            efficiency through availability of       introduced by the Govmenut to
(about $10 million/year at present   necessary imported inputs on a timely   utilime the retention funds  illU
production levels), with SGM         basis.                                   be evxitored by IDA.                      o
allowed direct arce  to retained
funs.
Plan of Action               S(MC to carry cut plan of action     Enhanced worker norale and               Action to be taken before
to imprwv  productivity including    productivity.                            Deember 31, 1984.
the introduction of work incentive
scbemes, including food and
productivity bouse.
SCM Is Finances              Governuent to convert SGMC's debts  Tmproved finances of S9M.                 Action to be taken by June 30,
to lo g-tenr  loan with appro-                                                1984.
priate grace periods.
Mbnitoring                   9MC performance to be mnmitored      Ehsuring accountabi Ity of manage-       Anwal; first revie with IM  in
and reviewed aniually by Govern-    ment and adequacy of policy measures      Deamber 1984.
ment, SMC and mLA. Cost of           affecting SGMC.
production of SGMC mdnes to be
reviewed anualy and required
financial measures taken by
Government to maintain viability.



- 19 -
43.      The nexr ten years saw a steady decline with 1974/75 production
dropping to some 400,000 tons. Subsequently output has declined even more
rapidly, with 1982/83 production of only 180,000 tons. Correspondingly, Ghana
is now the third largest cocoa producer in the world, accounting for about 12
percent of output. The immediate objective of the proposed project would,
therefore, be to arrest this declining production. The impact of this
declining production on Ghana's economy was made even more acute by a falling
off of international cocoa prices between 1977 ($3,790 per ton) and 1981
($1,800 per ton).
Sector Constraints and Issues
44.      Government policies in the past have been largely responsible for
poor production performance of cocoa in the past decade. The main factors
responsible for the decline of cocoa output were inadequate producer prices,
high marketing costs and institutional weaknesses of the Ghana Cocoa Marketing
Board (GCMB), the lack of imported inputs and deteriorating transport infra-
structure as discussed below.
45.      Price Policy.  The cocoa producer price is determined by the
Government and the adjustments allowed in the past have been far short of
general price increases, making cocoa farming increasingly unprofitable both
absolutely and relative to other crops. If the Government had followed a more
realistic price policy and let the producer price increase at the same rate as
the export price from mid 1960s onwards, the rate of decline in the real
incomes of cocoa producers could have been arrested. Instead the instrument
of price policy was used to exact more taxes from the industry which increased
from an average of 18 percent of cocoa export proceeds in the early 1960s to
more than 50 percent by the late 1970s. A growing divergence between the
official producer price and prices prevailing in the neighboring Ivory Coast
and Togo provided increasing incentive to smuggle cocoa out of the country.
Furthermore, the erosion of real income from cocoa has led to a shift of
family labor to food farming and has contributed to labor shortages, as
farmers are unable to hire casual labor during peak demand periods.
46.      Input Supply Policy.  The availability of insecticides and spraying
machines has been erratic and in 1979-81 the absolute amount available
declined sharply. Repair facilities and spare parts for spraying machines
have also been almost non-existent. Surveys in 1974 and 1978 revealed that
47 percent of the farms infected with capsids were not sprayed at all,
36 percent once, 13 percent twice, only 4 percent thrice and none 4 times
(which is the recommended frequency). The output response has, therefore,
been disappointing.
47.      Deteriorating Transportation System.  Lack of adequate vehicles and
spare parts and deteriorating roads and bridges increased difficulties in
evacuating cocoa to the ports. The weakness of the transportation system led
to deterioration in the quality of cocoa beans purchased (storage facilities
being deficient), difficulty in moving merchandise and farm inputs to cocoa
growing areas and depressed morale among cocoa farmers.



- 20 -
48.      Marketing and Extension Costs.  The basic institutional setup for
marketing, input supply and extension lacks efficiency and effectiveness.
Staff of GCMB and Cocoa Services Division (CSD) which provides extension
services has increased enormously over the years. The work force of CSD has
grown from about 4,000 in mid-1960s to about 44,000 at present though cocoa
production is now only 32 percent of the level in mid-1960s. A recent study
estimated that of the total of over 100,000 staff of GCMB (all divisions and
subsidiaries) and CSD, an estimated 46,000 were surplus costing 0377 million
annually. While there is surplus field and administrative staff, there is an
acute shortage of qualified accounting and workshop staff.
Government Strategy and Short-term Rehabilitation Program
49.      Given the importance of cocoa in the national economy, the Government
considers rehabilitation of the cocoa industry as a priority and an essential
element of Ghana's economic recovery program. Although the long-term projec-
tion indicates that the real world price of L.ucoq is likely to fall, to which
the Government is beginning to responid with an export diversification strategy,
in the short to medium term the cocoa sector offers substantial potential for
recovery of exports, given the country's overwhelming reliance on cocoa for
export earnings. Ghana has a comparative advantage in the production of cocoa
and Ghana's cocoa has traditionally enjoyed quality premium In the interna-
tional market. With proper policy framework, especially adequate producer
price and input supply pollcies, a,id removal of evacuation bottlenecks, Ghana
can, as a short-term objective, arrest and reverse the decline in cocoa output
and, as a medium term objective, restore production to the level achieved
during the mid 1970's (i.e., 400,000 tons) through rehabilitation of existing
farms and improven capsid control and husbandry practices.
50.      In recognirion of the importance of the cocoa sector, the Government
has prepared with the assistance of IDA a comprehensive study for the rehabili-
tation of the cocoa sector. 1/ The study examined all major aspects of the
Ghanaian cocoa industry and proposed policy and instituticnal measures to
improve producer incentives, marketing efficiency and extension effectiveness
including restructuring of GCMB. The study also identified required inputs,
equipment, and materials for rehabilitation of the cocoa sector, which the
Bank Group originally intended to help finance under a third cocoa project.
However, in view of the urgent need to initiate early measures, the Government
has prepared on the basis of the study a short term rehabilitation program
which aims at implementing essential policy changes and providing required
inputs to cocoa farmers and GCMB for a period of two years (1984-1985). The
program would be supported by the proposed Export Rehabilitation Project (ERP)
and this proposed project. In contrast to the earlier two cocoa projects
financed by the Bank Group which were confined to specific geographical areas,
the modified strategy under the proposed ERP would be to deal with the major
issues in the cocoa sector on a broad-based sectoral level and attempt to
implement a comprehensive reform package as discussed in detail in the
following paragraphs.
1/   Cocoa III Prefeasibility studies (in 12 volumes) carried out in 1982
by Peat, Marwick and Mitchell (U.K.).



- 21 -
Cocoa Sector Reform Measures
51.      Producer Price Adjustment.  Past studies on the cocoa sector have
shown that Ghanaian cocoa production is influenced mainly by real producer
prices. In recent years, substantial increases in nominal producer prices for
cocoa hlve taken place. In 1981, the producer price was raised from 04,000
per ton to 012,000 per ton. However, high domestic inflation rates largely
eroded the impact of this three-fold increase and in 1982 the cocoa producer
price was still only one-third of that in 1963 in real terms. In May 1983 the
cocoa producer price was again raised from 012,000 to 020,000 per ton.
Assuming realistic exchange rates in the future, improvements in real cocoa
producer prices are possible with the recent increase in world cocoa prices,l/
possible reduction in marketing costs and gradual decrease of Government
reliance on cocoa for revenues.
52.      The spurt in food prices over the last few years, particularly of
maize, has improved relative financial returns from food farming and therefore
its attractiveness, as compared to cocoa, though returns to the economy from
cocoa are much higher than those from foodcrops. The market price of maize
increased from 066 per ton in 1963 to 020,000 in 1982 while the producer price
of cocoa increabed from 0220 per ton to 012,000. With the drought in 1982 and
bush fires in early 1983 and acute foreign exchange shortage, prices of maize
now range from 040,000 to 060,000 per ton. It is reasonable to expect that
after the harvest this year and improved availability of imported foodstuff as
a result of external support, the present high prices of foodstuff will come
down. Assuming the maize price settles at 020,000 per ton, the return per
manday from maize (traditional cultivation) will be 0145 compared to 0118 from
rehabilitated cocoa at the present producer price of 020,000 per ton. With a
25 percent increase in cocoa producer prices from the present level, the
return per manday from rehabilitated cocoa would equal that from maize.
53.      A regular review and adjustment of producer prices is essential to
maintain farmers' incentives for cocoa production. In view of the uncertain-
ties of the international cocoa market and of the domestic inflation rate,
particularly the prices of competing foodstuffs, it is not considered desirable
to provide for an automatic adjustment of cocoa producer price based on a
predetermined formula.  Instead, an annual review and adjustment would be
undertaken.  Given the importance of cocoa to the economy and posslble con-
flict between the commercial objectives of a restructured GCMB (paras. 54-56)
on the one hand and producer incentives and price stabilization on the other,
a Cocoa Producer Price Review Committee, independent of GCMB, would be estab-
lished by January 31, 1984 to review and determine new producer prices
(Schedule 5, para. B l (b) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement for
ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). The Committee would be
chaired by the PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning with member-
ship of the Chief Executive of GCMB and at least one representative of cocoa
1/   Recently world cocoa prices have risen to $2,500 per ton.  Assuming
the f.o.b. Accra prices ranging from $2,100 to $2,400 and an exchange
rate of cedis 30 to US$1, cocoa producer prices are 28 to 32 percent of
f.o.b. prices.



- 22 -
farmers. Beginning in 1984, and each year thereafter, the Government would
submit its proposed prices by January 31 to IDA for revlew, would agrue on the
prices by February 28, and would announce them by March 31 (Schedule 5, para.
B I (b), the draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special
Fund Credit Agreement). The announcement of the 1984 cocoa prices would bo a
condition of disbursement of the cocoa component of the Credit tor ERP
(Schedule 1, para. 2 (d) and para. 2 (c), respectlvely of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
On the basis of the current estimates of domstic Inflation in 1983 and the
nucessity to provide enough incentives to farmers, a cocoa producer price
incroame of at least 50 percent seems warranted for 1984. In reviewing
proposed prices, special attention would be paid to maintaining adequate
Incentives for cocoa producers.
54.      Reorganization of GCMB.  The restructuring and reorganization of GCMB
is crucial to cocoa sector rehabilitatlon. It Is proposed to integrate CSD,
whlch Is responsible for providing extenslon servlce. Lo cocoa farmers, with
GCMB. This Is needed in the interests of Integrated sector planning and
operation, tighter control over CSD activities, economy in the use of central
support services leading to a reduction in operating costs and easier avall-
ability of resources for CSD.
55.      The GCMB, which has previously operated vlrtually as a Government
department, would be reorganized as a commercial body running on a profit-
making basis. This Is considered essential if the efficiency of GCMB is to be
improved, performance criteria worked out and accountability of senior manage-
ment ensured. The basic principle is to give GCMB control over its resources
(with effective monitoring by the Government through its representation on the
Board of Directors) so that it can institute proper planning and financial
management and be judged as to its performance at the end of the financial
year. The Government will continue to have its revenues from cocoa through
corporate taxes and dlvldends paid by GCKB. However, GCMB should build up its
equity so as to be able to finance its development expenditures. Until GCMB's
revenues start to improve, its outstanding debt would be converted to Govern-
ment's long-term loans with an appropriate grace period.
56.      The proposal for the restructuring of GCMB was conveyed to IDA by the
Government at negotiations. Subsequently a cabinet directive has authorlzed
GCMB to proceed with the restructuring. The restructuring proposals are the
work of a Steering Committee chaired by the PNDC Coordinating Secretary with
membership of PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning and Chief
Executive of GCMB. The Steering Committee will also oversee the
implementation of the restructuring of GCMB, which will have to be legally
accomplished prlor to disbursement under the cocoa component of the Credit for
ERP (Schedule 1, para. 2 (d) and para. 2 (c), respectively, of the draft
Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement).                          I
57.      Although cocoa is the most important foreign exchange earner, the
failure by the Government in the past to provide sufficient foreign exchange
to import essential recurrent needs (particularly insecticides) has been one
of the major reasons for declining cocoa output. Given the importance of



- ?3 -
assuring timely inputs to cocoa farmers and essential spare parts for the
cocoa evacuation vehicles, the Government has already authorized GCMB to have
access to at least 10 percent of its foreign exchange earnings through a
fozeign exchange retention scheme, and has agreed to maintain this scheme
(Schedule 5, para. B I (g) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement for
ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). Guidelines for the proper
use by GCMB of retained foreign exchange would be evolved by the Government.
58.      Reduction in GCMB Operating Costs.  In order to allow cocoa farmers
to have a progressively greater share of f.o.b. value and to ensure that GCMB
remains commercially viable, serious efforts would be made to reduce GCMB
operating costs. Several steps would be taken in this regard during the
project period:
(i) Plantations run by both GCMB and CSD are a heavy burden at present
accounting for over 20 percent of the operating costs of GCMB, CSD,
Produce Buying Division (PBD) and Produce Inspection Division (PID)
combined and employing about 18,000 staff. The Government has taken
initital steps to parcel out the plantations among the workers
presently employee there (who would no longer be GCMB employees)
and/or sell these ?lantations to private investors or retain only a
minority share. Ir order to assess the potential of these planta-
tions and criteria and procedures for eventual divestment, a study
would be completed by June 1984 and, based on the results of the
study, action by the Steering Committee completed by December 1984
(Schedule 5, para. B I (d) of both the draft Development Credit
Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
(ii)  There is a need to assess fully the financial viability of the three
cocoa products factories and the insecticide formulation plant
presently operated as subsidiaries of GCMB and to examine how these
subsidiaries should be set up as separate companies with private
investment. Although the Government has taken initial steps for
divestment, an in-depth study of these subsidiaries and procedures
for their eventual divestment would be completed by June 1984 and
action by the Steering Committee on the recommendations of the study
completed by December 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 1 (d) of both the
draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement).
(iii) Serious overstaffing exists in almost all the Divisions of GCMB and
CSD, which has been one of the important factors contributing to high
operating costs. Under the project, a five-year program for staff
reduction would be undertaken. The annual target for net reduction
(net of essential new recruitment) of the current staff on the
payroll of GCMB and CSD has been initially agreed to be 5,500 for
1984 (this excludes employees of plantations, cocoa products
factories, PBD district organization and formnulation plant for which
action will be taken after studies are completed (see (i) and (ii)
above). As an important element of the economic recovery program,
the Government is strongly committed to reducing overstaffing in the
public sector and has established a Mobilization Committee to retrain



- 24 -
redundant workers for redeployment to productive sectors especially
in food farming. An adjustment assistance program for displaced
workers of GCMB is under preparation by the Government and this
program would be submitted to the Association for its review and
comments by March 31, 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 1 (c) of both the
draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement). Progress in implementing the staff reduction
program would be one of the performance criteria for release of the
second tranche of the Credit for ERP (Schedule 4, para. (iii) of both
the draft Development Credit Agreement for :3RP and the draft Special
Fund Credit Agreement).
(iv) Significant possibility of reduction in operating costs exists
through greater reliance on private haulers, particularly from depots
to port. At present about 30 percent of long distance haulage is by
private haulers. Although the Government has taken steps for further
increase of private haulage, GCMB would prepare a program to increase
further private sector haulage of cocoa by June 30, 1984 for review
with IDA (Schedule 5, para. B 1 (d), of both the draft Development
Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement).
(v) GCMB should be able to reduce costs by improving its storage of cocoa
and cocoa products before export. Assurances were given that GCMB
would prepare a study on the procedures for receiving at ports,
storing and shipping of cocoa and cocoa products by June 30, 1984 and
implement the results by December 30, 1984 (Schedule 5, B 1 (d) of
both the draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement).
Cvi) To operate efficiently as a private institution, GCMB would undertake
a study to develop a corporate planning and management information
system. Assurances were given that this study would be completed by
August 31, 1984 and the results implemented by February 28, 1985
(Schedule 5, para. B. I (d) of both the draft Development Credit
Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
(vii) A long run possibility of reducing marketing costs through privati-
zation of cocoa marketing and introduction of multiple buying system
exists. However, the full implications of privatization and intro-
ducing the multiple buying system need to be carefully studied. A
study of alternative systems for marketing would Lo completed by June
1985 for review with IDA and the results carried out by December 31,
1985 (Schedule 5, para. B 1 (d) of both the draft Development Credit
Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
59.      Production Strategy.  Implementation of the production support
components of the ERP would be within thc. framework of a long-term strategy
for cocoa rehabilitation and replanting. This strategy involves consolidation
of cocoa acreage to about half of the present acreage which are not infected
with Swollen Shoot Virus Disease (SSVD) with efforts to obtain more than twice
the present average yields. The rehabilitation under ERP would concentrate on



- 25 -
the selected areas with about two-thirds of the resources going to these areas
and the remaining one-third to other areas (even this one-third would be care-
fully allocated to areas which are not infected with SSVD and have some
potential). Additionally, a two-year interim strategy for SSVD control would
be mounted, emphasizing control of isolated outbreaks in priority areas for
rehabilitation and forming a buffer zone between the Eastern and Central
Regions on the one hand and the priority areas on the other. After this
operation is completed, the strategy would be to move into Eastern and Central
Regions gradually for SSVD control, consistent with availability of resources.
For successful implementat0on of the interim and longer-term strategy for SSVD
control, the Government would formulate a policy of compensation payments to
cocoa farmers for replanting the trees cut down. Agreement has been reached
at negotiations regarding strategy discussed above and assurances have been
given that the Government would prepare such a strategy and a plan of compen-
sation payments for review with IDA by June 30, 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 1
(f) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement).
B - The Timber Sector
General
60.      Forests represent a very significant national resource in Ghana.
Covering about 8.2 million ha., some 34 percent of total land area, they
contain valuable redwoods and other species, highly prized in European and
other markets for veneer, plywood and lumber. In addition, Ghana's rural
population (about 7.2 million people or 68 percent of the population) depend
on the forests for fuelwood, building poies, and timber for housing. Fuelvood
consumption is estimated at 10 million m  annually, or six times irdustrial
log consumption. The forests also play a crucial role in protecting water
catchment areas and preventing soil erosion, sedimentation of reservoirs and
downstream flooding effects.
61.      Historically, the sector has generated about 5 percent of total GDP
and 8 percent of foreign exchange earnings, ranking third (behind cocoa and
minerals) in exported commodities. However, in recent years production and
earnings from3the sector have been declining. In 1965 los production was
1.5 million m ; by 1972 this had decreased to 1 million m . However, during
the past decade production has furiher fallen off and now stands well below
tl-e 1972 'Level e.g., 0.1 million m in 1982. Exports of wood and wood
products were valued at US$20 million in 1965 and had increased to US$90
million by 1976 but has fallen to less than US$20 million by 1982.
62.      A number of constraints have adversely affected the ability of the
forestry sector to make its full potential contribution to Ghana's economic
development, the most serious of which have been the grossly overvalued cedi,
government controls and regulations on the timber industry, weak supporting
institutions and infrastructure, lack of managerial and professional manpowrer,
and the shortage of spare parts and imported inputs. Although currently the
world timber trade is depressed, there is a large and increasing demand for



- 26 -
tropical hardwood products, a significant proportion of which is expected to
come from Africa. The high proportion of Ghana's timber products which were
exported in the 1960's and 1970's confirms that Ghana's products were well
received. The dramatic decrease in export sales during the last few years has
not been due to a decline in export demand so much as to a combination of
steadily reducing log production and mill outputs due to factors discussed
above. Appropriate government policy, and technical and financial assistance
are now required to reverse this trend and restore the sector to its former
productivity and profitability.
Structure of the Timber Sector
63.      The sector comprises a private subsector, with some 150 logging firms
and more than 80 mills, which have traditionally supplied more than 60 percent
of Ghana's total timber exports, and a state-owned subsector consisting of
four major companies, representing the balance of exports. Altogether the
sector employs about 70,000 people, or about 15 percent of the employed labor
force.
64.      The private subsector is engaged in all aspects of production, from
logs through lumber, plywood, veneer, and remanufactured items. While, in
general, the private sector exhibits better management, sounder financial
practices and overall better physical facilities than the state-owned com-
panies, these firms continue to suffer from lack of spare parts, materials and
other imported inputs. As a result capacity utilization averages less than
50 percent; vehicle and equipment maintenance is impossible in the absence of
spare parts; and thus, production and exports have declined in recent years.
65.      Of the four state-owned companies, two (African Timber and Plywood
Company and Gliksten West Africa Company ) are operating under poor management
and wiith extremely outdated equipment, often inappropriate for the given line
of production. The rehabilitation of these two firms will require consider-
able long-term capital investment. The other two firms (Mim Timber Company
and Takoradi Veneer and Lumber Company) are better managed and on sounder
financial footing and assistance of a shorter term nature could likely restore
much of their profitability. However, a thorough study of the viability and
alternative strategies for the state-owned companies is warranted.
Government Strategy
66.      Government policy for the forestry sector is to increase productivity
to the maximum extent, consistent with environmental protection, including
safeguarding cover on water sheds, maintaining animal life and the welfare of
the population, and the long-term preservation of the forests, including
reforestation as necessary. Government strategy for the private subsector is
to facilitate rehabilitation of selected mills to generate foreign exchange
quickly, and for the state-owned mills to rehabilitate them seeking minority
participation from the private sector, both domestic and foreign, including
the possibility of entering into management agreements with large inter-
national companies.



- 27 -
67.      Several studies have been carried out by the Government as a basis
for rehabilitating the timber industry. These include a FAO study on the
forestry sector which identified a project to help rehabilitate the state
owned companies, to establish pulpwood plantations and to strengthen the
forestry sector institutions; an EEC study on Ghanaian timber marketing
organization and procedures undertaken by P-E International Operations (U.K.)
which recommended specific policy and institutional changes required to
promote Ghanaian timber exports; and a timber industry rehabilitation study
carried out by a consortium of three international banks to assess rehabili-
tation requirements with emphasis on the private sector timber companies. On
the basis of the above studies and with assistance of the Bank Group, the
Government has prepared a short-term timber sector rehabiliation program which
aims at increasing the utilization of the existing production capacity
especially among the private companies through provision of spare parts,
equipment and materials. The program would be supported by the proposed
Credit for ERP.
Timber Sector Policy and Institutional Reforms
68.      Many of the policies and institutions dealing with the sector have
been counter-productive to the objective of increasing timber production and
exports. Indeed, the principal factors contributing to the sector's marked
decline during the past decade stem from excessive and/or inappropriate
government controls. UJntil recently, the Ghana Timber Marketing Board (GTMB)
exercised complete control over timber export production and prices. GTMB's
principal functions were: (a) to control and supervise production of wood
products whether for export or domestic sales; (b) to determine which species
must be turned into finished or semi-finished products prior to export; (c) to
set prices; (d) to approve and allocate import and export licenses, including
coutract approval; and (e) to inspect export parcels to ensure correspondence
with approved export contracts. In addition, GTMB had responsibility for
export promotion and research and statistics. In effect, these assistance
functions suffered from GTMB's overwhelming preoccupation with its control
functions.
69.      In order to alleviate immediate physical constraints, the proposed
ERP would provide spare parts, materials and equipment to enable selected
timber companies to increase production and exports. However, there would be
critical bottlenecks to increasing timber exports unless timber marketing
organizations and procedures were restructured so as to enable timber
companies to export with a minimum amount of Government control and regula-
tion. Specific changes in the timber sector to be implemented in conjunction
with the proposed ERP are as follows
70.      Restructuring of Marketing Organizations and Procedures.  GTMB has
been abolished, and an independent Timber Export Development Board (TEDB)
whose membership would include both concerned Government Ministries and
representatives of mills producing for export, would be established by April
30, 1984. In the interim period, the Ministry of Forestry would carry out
essential functions for timber production and exports (Schedule 5, para. B 2
(a) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement).  The primary function of TEDB would be to



- 28 -
obtain, collate and disseminate to the industry, information concerning Ghana
species, export markets and current prices, export opportunities and
prospects. The TEDB would operate solely as a market promotion and market
intelligence advisory body to serve the industry and would not be responsible
for controls on the industry. Various negative controls on timber exports
hitherto exercised by the Government have been abolished. These consisted
mainly of the practice of requiring Government's examination of draft timber
export contracts and the minimum export price regulations. In order to assist
the Government in setting up TEDB, the proposed project would provide consul-
tant studies to assess the initial requirements of TEDB as well as an interna-
tionally recruited expert to help establish TEDB and train staff (Sections
3.02 and 3.03 (a), the draft Development Credit Agreement for TA Project).
71.      Inspection and grading of timber products would be strengthened by
the establishment of a Forests Products Inspection Bureau (FPIB) as a self-
regulating professional body overseeing all functions of grading and grading
regulation. The FPIB would establish standard grading rules to facilitate
grading and inspection, improve claim handling and minimize fraudulent prac-
tices. The FPIB would be established by April 30, 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 2
(b) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement). Necessary consultant services for the proper
establishment of FPIB and technical assistance to help manage this new insti-
tution and train staff are included in the proposed project (Section 3.02, the
draft Development Credit Agreement for TA Project).
72.      Foreign Exchange Availability.  The present Government policy allows
timber exporters to retain 20 percent of export proceeds to be used for impor-
tation of spare parts and materials, which has helped to obviate the need to
apply for normal import licenses to procure recurrent imports. In practice,
however, there were considerable procedural delays due to the requirement to
obtain specific approval from the Ministries of Trade and Finance and the Bank
of Ghana before the exporter could utilize the funds and now allows all items
judged to be necessary for the exporters' work to be included in the automatic
import license acquisition. This is an improvement over the previous system
under which the utilization of the funds was limited to the import of urgently
needed spare parts and consumables. The Government has recently streamlined
the procedures to avoid delays. A proposal on further streamlining procedures
would be reviewed by IDA by March 31, 1984 and the recommendations of such
review would be carried out by June 30, 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 2 (e) of
both the draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement).
73.      State-owned Companies.  With one or two exceptions, the large state-
owned timber companies suffer from management weaknesses and under-capitali-
zation and their rehabilitation would require restructuring in the ownership
and management of the companies. Given the potential of the state-owned
companies in Ghana's timber exports, a study would be carried out to examine
the viability and alternative strategies for the future of the state-owned
companies including the possibility of privatization and management contracts.
The study which would be financed under the proposed project would be com-
pleted by September 30, 1984. Government would review the results of the
study with IDA and adopt alternative strategies for these companies before



- 29 -
December 31, 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 2 (c) of both the draft Development
Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). In
order to optimize the utilization of forest resources there is a need to
rationalize the allocation of concessions. Government would, with technical
assistance provided under the proposed project, review with IDA concession
allocations by June 30, 1985 with a view to cancelling those concessions which
are uneconom_c and reallocating them to other producers, with priority given
to export producers. The Government action on the reallocation of the conces-
sions would be completed by December 31, 1985 (Schedule 5, para. B 2 (d) of
both the draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement).
C - The Mining Sector
General
74.      Ghana's mineral industry is the second most important foreign
exchange earner after cocoa, with mineral exports accounting for about
15 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings. The sector has a
significant impact on communication, power and transportation demands, and
provides education and social services throughout the country. Although a
complete assessment of Ghana's mineral wealth is impossible because of the low
level of exploration carried out so far, the country is well endowed with
mineral resources. In addition to gold which is by far the most important
mineral providing nearly 90 percent of total mineral exports and employing
over 16,000 people, diamonds, manganese and bauxite are the major minerals
produced for exports. Diamonds of industrial quality have been extracted from
alluvials in the Akwatia area in the Eastern province since the 1920's. How-
ever, production has been declining due to the depletion of existing reserves
and the existing low price of industrial diamonds. Manganese ore reserves
have been estimated at 20 million tons in the Nsuta mine in the Western
region, whc:re an oxidization plant is being constructed to process about
400,000 tons of carbon-based ores annually. Bauxite has been mined since
1943 in Awaso in the Western region, and reserves are estimated at 16 million
tons. Increased production of bauxite has been constrained by the inadequate
rail capacity on which shipment of bauxite has to depend.
Structure of Gold Mining
75.      The country's known deposits of gold, with proven reserves of about
5 million oz, are in the Ashanti Region (at Obuasi and Dunkwa) and in the
Western Region (Tarkwa and Prestea). Gold is produced by two companies:
Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC), a joint venture between Government and
Lonrho (U.K.) which operates an underground mine at Obuasi, and the State Gold
Mining Corporation (SGMC), a wholly Government-owned company, which operates
two underground mines (at Tarkwa and Prestea) and an alluvial dredging mine
(at Dunkwa). The SGMC was created in 1961 to take over the ownership of
several gold mines which were about to be closed down by their private owners
who were operating at a loss due to Low gold prices. The SGMC decided to
continue operation of the mines and maintained the existing workforce of about



- 30 -
8,600 workers despite loss of productivity and overall efficiency. At present
about 65 percent of Ghana's gold production comes from AGC while the SGMC is
producing the balance.
Sector Issues and Constraints
76.      Ghana's gold production has steadily declined for a number of years
and the decline was most marked during the last decade when total gold output
decreased from 740,000 oz in 1970 to less than 360,000 oz in 1980. Major
factors contributing to the decline were: (a) erosion in the finances of the
mining companies resulting from the grossly distorted exchange rate regime in
the past and the spiralling inflation which have critically affected the
financial viability of the companies; (b) lack of management autonomy which
has not permitted operating the individual mines of SGMC as commercial enti-
ties, resulting in lack of definition of responsibilities and performance
targets and inadequate mine planning and financial control; tc) shortages of
foreign exchange which have not permitted to meet recurrent imported inputs
such as maintenance, spares, replacement equipment and necessary rehabilita-
tion of existing mines and plant facilities; (d) progressive departure of most
foreign management and technical personnel resulting in poor management and
low productivity and high absenteeism of mine workers due to generally severe
economic conditions; (e) the use of over-aged production equipment in opera-
tion with low productivity, health and safety standards; and (f) lack of
financing necessary to explore promising deposits and to develop new mines.
Generally, the erosion caused by overvalued exchange rates and inadequate
retention of foreign exchange from exports have led to rapid decapitalization.
Government Strategy and Rehabilitation Program
77.      Ghana's gold subsector has the potential to significantly increase
its role as a major foreign exchange earner for the country owing to the
relatively high grade of its known deposits, and vast gold mineralization
including relatively shallow alluvial type deposits. Also, gold mining can
achieve high profitability due to present gold prices, the recent devaluation
of cedi, and the structure of mineralization quite favorable for mining.
Although gold mining in Ghana has been on the decline for about two decades,
it can be resuscitated to its potential if satisfactory management autonomy
and necessary financial and technical assistance are provided. The Government
has recognized the serious economic implications of the decline of gold pro-
duction in Ghana and, as an important element of its economic recovery
program, has prepared a short-term program for rehabilitation of the SGMC and
AGC mines. The program for SGMC aims at restoring SGMC's gold production to
the level achieved in 1979 by increasing output from the present 72,000 oz to
165,000 oz per annum over a three-year period through rehabilitation of under-
ground facilities, mining equipment, dredges, processing mills and provision
of spares and consumables. Specific production targets for each of the SGMC
mines and rehabilitation input requirements are shown in Annex IV of the draft
President's Report for ERP.  The mining component of ERP would provide foreign
exchange to support the SGMC rehabilitation program. A program for increased
gold production from the AGC mine has also been prepared which envisages
increasing output from 250,000 oz annually at present to about 350,000 oz over
a period of four years. It is expected that this investment program would be



- 31 -
implemented with commercial sources of financing and IFC's participation is
currently under active consideration. The future of the mining industry in
Ghana will depend to a considerable extent on the investment of new capital.
In order to promote foreign investment and ensure that investment conditions
in the country as a whole and in the mining industry in particular are
comparable or better than in other countries, an investment code was pro-
mulgated in 1981.
Sectoral Policy and Institutional Reforms
78.      In order to address major sectoral issues which have constrained
efficient operation of the SGMC, the Government has in principle agreed to
implement the following policy reforms in conjunction with ERP and the
proposed project.
79.      Foreign Exchange Retention.  In order to ensure that SGMC does not
have to rely on normal Government foreign exchange allocation to meet its
recurrent imported inputs and to enable SGMC to meet part of the financial
requirement for its rehabilitation out of its own resources, the foreign
exchange retention by the SGMC has been increased from the previous 20 percent
to 35 percent of its export sales. At the current level of production this
will allow SGhC to retain about $10 million per annum, which will enable the
SGMC to meet its recurrent import needs from its own resources. The Govern-
ment and the SGMC would maintain the policies and procedures for the renten-
tion funds satisfactory to IDA (Schedule 5. para. B3 (c) of both the draft
Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement).
80.      Management Autonomy.  The SGMC would be given full management
autonomy and its mines would be allowed to run as a commercial entity under a
management contract. Given the presently weak institutional capabil'ty of the
SGMC, the Government has agreed to engage an internationally experienced
mining management company to run the SGMC and train the local counterpart
staff. It is envisaged that a total of about 60 man-years of such managerial
and technical personnel would be financed under the proposed project. The
progress under the management contract would be monitored periodically by the
Government and IDA. The necessary planning and preparation work required
before the Government would be in a position to invite management contract
proposals from international mining companies has already started with funds
provided under a Project Preparation Facility advance. The appointment of an
international mining management company and signing of a management contract
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of disbursement of the Credit for the
mining component of ERP with an exception of $5 million which would 'e needed
initially to meet urgent import requirements of ERP (Schedule 1, para. 2 (f)
and para. 2 (d), respectively of both the draft Development Credit Agreement
for ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
81.      Work Incentive Scheme.  There is an urgent need to improve the living
condition of the mine workers as the scarcity of food has caused serious
absenteeism and low productivity among mine workers and it is evident that the
rehabilitation of the mines would be impossible without improvements in the
food supply situation. The SGMC would introduce a plan of action to improve



- 32 -
productivity in its mines specifying, inter alia, a work incentive scheme
including direct provision of food and special bonuses to reward higher
productivity. Such a scheme would be carried out before December 31, 1984
(Schedule 5, para. B 3 (a), of both the draft Development Credit Agreement for
ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
82.      SGMC's Finances.  The Government recognizes that the poor financial
performance of the SGMC has been partially due to the grossly distorted
exchange rate regime in the past. While the recent devaluation has signifi-
cantly corrected the distortion and the new exchange rate should initially be
sufficient to restore the viability of the company, its effects will have to
be carefully assessed once the cost-price relationships in the economy
following the measure have settled down. In order to enable the restructured
SGMC to start with an improved financial position, the Government has agreed
to convert SGMC's outstanding debts into a long-term loan with terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1984. In addition, the cost of
production of SGMC mines and the profitability of the company would be
reviewed not later than December 31, 1984 and thereafter annually (Schedule 5,
para. B3 (b) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP and the
draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background:
83.      The proposed Technical Assistance Project is being presented in
parallel with the Export Rehabilitation Project (ERP) which is described in
the accompanying President's Report. The project is intended to support the
objectives of the ERP by providing various technical assistance and consultant
services required to implement the ERP including a number of important policy
and institutional changes. Because of the progressive deterioration in the
economic conditions of the country over the past decade, there has been a
steady drain of qualified managerial and professional skills from the country,
which is severely constraining the capacity of the Government to implement the
economic recovery program. In particular the Government recognizes the need
to strengthen the management and institutional capability of the export sector
and has requested IDA to finance a technical assistance project to be imple-
mented in conjunction with the ERP. The project was formulated in the course
of preparing the ERP in close collaboration with the Government and concerned
sector agencies. The project was appraised by an IDA mission which visited
Ghana in June 1983. The Credit negotiations took place in Washington between
November 7 and November 14, 1983 with the Ghana delegation led by Mr.J. G.
Renner, Secretary for Lands and Natural Resources, and included representa-
tives from the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, SGMC and GCNB. A
Credit and Project Summary is shown at the beginning of this report and
supplementary project data and information at Annex III.



- 33 -
Project Objectives:
84.      The primary objective of the project is to help strengthen the insti-
tutional capability of the key organizations in the export sector so that thay
can play a more effective role in the development of Ghana's major export
industries and thus make a positive contribution to Ghana's economic recovery
over the longer term. Specifically the project seeks to (a) ensure adequate
institutional capability in the cocoa, timber and gold mining industries to
carry through a number of sector policy and institutional reform measures as
discussed in Part III of this report and (b) to strengthen the capacity of the
export sector organizations to effectively manage and implement the components
of the proposed ERP.
Project Description:
85.      The proposed project would include the following technical assistance
and studies:
(a) Cocoa Sector - About 31 man-years of technical assistance would be
provided to the Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board (GCMB) to help implement
the cocoa sector policy and institutional changes; provide direct
support to GCMB's senior management in ensuring efficient
implementation of the cocoa component of the ERP; and train local
staff. In addition 23 man-months of assistance would be provided to
undertake various sector studies;
(b) Timber Sector - About 10 man-years of technical assistance would be
provided to the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources to establish
the Timber Export Development Board (TEDB) and the Forest Products
Inspection Bureau (FPIB), train local staff and ensure adequate
capacity of the National Investment Bank (NIB) to administer the
timber sector component of the ERP. In addition 6 man-years of
technical assistance would be provided to two state-owned timber
companies (Mim and TVLC) and about 19 man-months of assistance to the
Government to carry out various timber sector studies and review
progress of the ERP.
(c) Gold Mining Sector - About 60 man-years of technical assistance
would be provided to the State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC) under a
management contract to strengthen its managerial and technical
capability to implement the mining component of the ERP, to improve
local management capability and train local staff. In addition about
33 man-months of assistance would be included to monitor progress of
the SGMC management contract and carry out feasibility studies on
long-term investment projects in the sector.
(d) Port Sector - About 4 man-years of technical assistance would be
provided to assist the Ghana Port Authority (GPA) in implementing the
port component of the ERP and in improving port operations and
management including training. In addition, about 6 man-months of
assistance would be provided to carry out port management studies.



- 34 -
Details of technical assistance positions and consultant studies to
be financed under the project are shown in Annex IV of this report.
Project Cost and Financing:
86.      The total cost of the project net of local taxes from which the
project would be exempt is estimated at US$18.0 million consisting of US$15.6
million in foreign exchange and US$2.4 million equivalent in local currency.
The cost estimate for the technical assistance component is based on the rates
of similar internationally recruited experts employed In Ghana and elsewhere
in West Africa and the average man-month cost in 1983 prices for long-term
assistance is estimated at US$10,500 including salary, housing, allowances,
overheads and relocation expenses of appointed staff. The average man-month
cost for short-term assistance is estimated at US$13,000. Price contingencies
have been calculated at the rate of 5 percent per year, which is in line with
similar technical assistance contracts in Ghana. The proposed IDA credit of
US$17.1 million would finance 95 percent of the total project cost including
100 percent of the foreign exchange portion. The Government would finance the
remaining 5 percent of the total cost.
Project Implementation:
87.      The project would be implemented over a period of four years (1984-
87). The responsibility for implementation of various project components
would lie with the respective organizations which would be employing technical
assistance personnel. The proceeds of the Credit would be made available to
the implementing agencies by the Borrower in cases where the implementing
agencies are public corporations (i.e. GCMB, SGMC, GPA) rather than the
Government itself, as loans with a repayment period of 15 years after 5 years
of grace. Such loans would be made on an interest free basis until such time
as the respective agencies become financially capable of paying appropriate
interest on the loans. The financial position of the agencies would be
reviewed annually by the Government and IDA. All technical assistance
positions under the project would be filled or undertaken by persons or firms
with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. The Interministerial Export Rehabilitation Committee (see para. 91 of
the President's Report on ERP) assisted by a project coordinating unit
established in the Office of the PNDC Coordinating Secretary would be charged
with the responsibilities for ensuring coordination of project activities,
resolving policy matters and exercising central monitoring of progress of
project components.
88.      In the mining sector, technical assistance to the SGMC would be
provided by an international mining and management company to be selected by
the Government in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines and employed under
a management contract for a period of four years. The management contract
would include an incentive provision whereby the international mining company
would be entitled, in addition to the basic fee, a management bonus with
respect to the production in excess of the agreed targeted level. As a
preparatory step, the Government has engaged the services of Rio Tinto Zinc
Consultants (RTZ) with financing provided under a Project Preparation Facility
advance to review the present management structure of the SGMC and define
rehabilitation priorities and management strategy. The RTZ study which is



- 35 -
expected to be completed by February 1984 will provide detalled management and
operating performance targets to be achieved over a period of four years,
terms of reference for the management contract, and detailed requirements and
qualifications of internationally recruited specialists including a training
specialist, on the basis of which the Government would solicit proposals from
international mining companies. The management contract between SGMC and an
international mining company is expected to be signed and field work can
commence in October 1984. Finalization of the management structure satisfac-
tory to IDA including the terms of reference for the Internationally recruited
managers and specialists and the conclusion of a management contract which
would include a training component satisfactory to IDA would be a condition
of the Credit disbursement for the mining component under ERP except for
$5 million for urgently needed import items (Schedule 1, para. 2(f) and
para. 2(d), respectively, of the draft Development Credit Agreement for ERP
and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). The RTZ study would also
provide specifications of spares and equipment to be financed as part of the
proposed ERP including an implementation plan. In addition to technical
assistance under the management contract, the project would provide about
8 man-months of consultant services to assist the Government in carrying out
periodic monitoring and evaluation of progress under the management con-
tract. In addition, about 25 man-months of consultant services would be
provided under the project to enable the SGMC to carry out feasibility studies
on shaft sinking at Prestea and Tarkwa and development of alluvial deposits
and tailings, which could lead to medium-term investment projects to be
implemented with external financing.
89.      In the cocoa sector the GCMB has been provided with managerial and
technical support by a team of consultants from Peat Marwick and Mitchell
(PMM-U.K.) for the last two years under a UNDP Technical Assistance Project of
which the Bank Group is the executing agency. The main objective of this UNDP
project which will be completed by June 1984, has been to improve the organi-
zation of GCfB, staff training, accounting system and financial control, cocoa
evacuation system and vehicle management and maintenance. Since the PMM
consultants have been engaged to assist GCHB in the areas to be supported
under the proposed project and to ensure continuity, it is expected that PMM
will be retained by the Government to provide necessary technical assistance
under the proposed project. This would include the following positions: an
Advisor to Chief Executive, an Advisor to Produce Buying Division, a Financial
Advisor, an Accountant, a Procurement Advisor, an Estate Advisor, four Vehicle
Workshop Advisors, an Agronomy Advisor and two Sprayer Workshop Advisors. The
terms of reference for these positions are outlined in Annex V. The main
responsibility of the advisors would be to assist GCMB in implementing the
reorganization and cost efficiency measures outlined in paras. 54 to 57 above,
to develop and carry out training program for local staff, and to ensure that
the counterpart Ghanaian managers are performing in all aspects as the job
requires and to provide continuous feedback to the advisor managers in pursuit
of this aim. The advisors would be employed for two to three years depending
on the positions involved. In addition, the proposed project would finance
the following studies in the cocoa sector which would be carried out either by
individual consultants or consulting firms under the auspices of the GCMB:
(a) financial viability of cocoa plantations and procedures for divestment;



- 36 -
(b) financial viability of cocoa products factories and insecticides formula-
tion plants and procedures for divestment; (c) corporate planning and manage-
ment information system; (d) procedures for receiving at port, storing and
shipping cocoa; (e) alternative systems for cocoa marketing and input delivery
systems. The outlines of these studies are shown In Annex VI. The timetables
for undertaking the above studies, roview with IDA and necessary folLow-up
actions are summarised in Table 1 (Pagoe 11 to 15 of this report).
90.      Technical assistance to tho timber sector would include a Managing
Director for TEDB, a Managing Director, Grader Registrar and a Grader Trainer
for FPIB and a Timber Industry Advisor for NIB and would emphasize the train-
ing of local staff. In addition five experts would be provided to the state-
owned timber companies (i.e., a Transportation Engineer and a Caterpillar
Diesel Specialist for Mim Timber Company and a Production Manager, a Forestry
Engineer and an Accountant for TVLC). The proposed project would also provide
assistance to the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources to carry out studies
on organizational and staffing requirements of TEDB and FPIB and Government
strategies for state-owned timber companies; and to review progress of the ERP
timber component. The terms of reference for the technical assistance
personnel and consultant studies are shown in Annex VII. The timetables for
completion of the studies and follow-up actions are set out in Table 1 (see
pages 14-18 of this report).
91.      Technical assistance to the port sector which would include training
of local staff would be provided by port consultants to be selected by GPA
following the Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. The port technical
assistance would be carried out in three phases. First, the consultants
(about 2 man-months) would help GPA finalize the list of items to be financed
under the ERP and prepare specifications, procurement and training schedules.
Secondly, in order to prepare a plan of actions to improve port operations and
strengthen management, a team of port experts (about 4 man-months) will assist
GPA in carrying out a port management study to be completed by September
1984. This study will focus on measures for improving port efficiency in
general, and on streamlining the present organizational arrangements where
port functions are divided between different public companies with insuffi-
cient coordination among them. The third phase will consist of (a) review of
the management study findings by IDA, the Government and the port agencies
concerned, and (b) implementation of an action program ar ording to a time-
table agreed with IDA based on the above review (Section 2.08, the draft
Project Agreement). To assist GPA in implementing this phase, 48 man-months
of residential experts will be provided under the proposed project.
Monitoring
92.      A project coordinating unit within the Intermini. serial Export Reha-
bilitation Committee would have the overall responsibility for monitoring
progress of the proposed project in collaboration with the respective project
implementation agencies. It is expected that most of the long-term technical
assistance personnel under the project will be appointed and deployed in the
course of 1984. The status of appointment of such personnel will be reviewed
in December 1984 and progress in carrying out the proposed project satis-
factory to IDA would be needed before release of the second tranche of the ERP



- 37 -
Credit (Schedule 1, para. 3 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement for
ERP and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
Disbursement
93.      The proposed Credit would be disbursed to cover the costs of techni-
cal assistance as follows: (i) US$ 4.4 million for the cocoa component; (ii)
US$8.2 million for the gold mining component; (iii) US$2.4 million for the
timber component; (iv) US$0.9 million for the port component; and (v) US$0.3
million for refund of the Project Preparation Facility advance.
US$0.9 million would be unallocated.
Credit Effectiveness
94.      In view of the integral nature of this project with ERP, the proposed
Credit would become effective only when the IDA Credit and the Special Fund
Credit for ERP become effective (Section 5.01(b), the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Justification and Risks
95.      The proposed project would make a major contribution in assisting the
Government to strengthen the management capability of the key export sector
organizations, which is essential if the Government's economic recovery
program is to be implemented successfully. Specifically the technical assis-
tance under the project would enable the Government to carry through a number
of export sector policy and institutional reform measures to be undertaken in
conjunction with the ERP, which are needed to arrest and reverse the decline
in export production and to lay the foundation for longer term development of
the export sector. The proposed project would also ensure adequate management
and technical capacity of the export industries to implement the respective
components of the ERP and help build local capability through training. Given
the present institutional weaknesses of public sector organizations and the
countrywide shortage of qualified managerial skills, the risk to Ghana by not
providing t-_ required technical support would be substantial and could
undermine the objectives of the ERP with serious negative impact on Ghana's
economic recovery.
96.      The proposed project entails special risks that, in light of the
unusually difficult country economic conditions, Ghana may not be able to
attract technical assistance personnel of required calibre and that there may
be delays in their appointments. Another risk would be that the training
objective of the technical assistance may be jeopardized due to the lack of
qualified counterpart staff and general demoralization of local staff at all
levels. A special effort would be made in the course of the project imple-
mentation to ensure that the above risks are minimized. To this end early
action is being taken by Government with funds provided under the PPF to
expedite appointment of technical assistance personnel. In the cocoa sector
existing technical assistance arrangements would be utilized to avoid
delays. The Government is committed to improving the living conditions and
morale of local staff and has recently doubled the minimum wage and granted a
substantial across-the-board salary increase for the public sector



- 38 -
employees. While the primary focus of the proposed project is to ensure
adequate management capacity to implement the ERP and initiate associated
policy changes, it is recognized that long-term institutional objectives could
be realized only if continuous technical assistance were provided over a
longer period. The need for longer term external support to strengthen the
export sector institutions will be reflected in designing future Bank Group
projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
97.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Ghana
and the Association and the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and GCMB, SGMC and GPA, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
98.      In addition to the special features of the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the Project Agreement, which are set forth in Section III of Annex
III of this Report, the conditions of Credit effectiveness are; (a) execution
of the Development Credit Agreement and the Special Fund Credit Agreement for
the Export Rehabilitation Project, (b) execution of the subsidiary agreements
between the Republic of Ghana and the implementing agencies, and (c) execution
of the Project Agreement.
99.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
100.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed deve-
lopment credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 12, 1933



Mt3  Wrt AVMILAIWLL
ANNEX I
- 39  -                                          Page  1 of 5  pages
TA BLK t
SOCIA sCL UlltCATnES TIA?A sMET
tI;A                               RE,vaEEe tm'r,c C-SSQtTE1W     A%ltRlAs) r.
MOST                    CMSC  RFCE.UT ESt'TfATZ) lb
70fb RDCM         Low rNCME              !@lI.FX  IICOIE
I9a        197i   tST?!Tw        AFRICA S. oC SAHARtA    AFRICA S. OF SAltAR
- (yIBAM SQ-. 00
TOTAL.                           23.5       2338.5     238.5
CRtIMIURA.                       65.4       61.4       62.1
pw s CIIATA Cs)                    190.0      240.0      600.0             256.6                   1147.I
(ILOOtASc OF OAL EqTLrEWTLr)     106.0      266.0      260.0              7.8                     724.2
IOH3AfT0N AIID VITAL STTISTIC
P0PATIOt.FP1SYEAR (TNOCSlASS)   6306.0     8616.0   l1130.0
gtUl POPULSAtION (: OF TOtAL)     23.3       29.1       38.6              19.3                     28.3
POFPLATIOW  tWIECrlOS
voIATIoUN t YlAR 2000 D  MILL)                        24.2
STAnORKRT POPUJlON (CALL)                            35.6
TZAR SITATINRT POP. REACED                           213
PCs SQ. Ot.                     28.5       36.t       48.2             2".5                      56.3
PE sq. me. AGR. LaND           106.0      140.2      186.5              94.1                    131.8
POPLATION AGIE STSCUUE CZ)
0-16 IRS                        6.5       5         46.8              S.0                      5.9
15-  TitS                       52.9       51.6       30.5              52.1                     51.2
65 AID AgaPE                     2.6        2.7        2.7               2.9                      2.8
OPunLATION   frRATE (C)
TOe                              4.4        2.4        2.9               2.8                      2.8
UR3                              9.2        4.6        3.0               6.2                      5.3
CmOD  DIlTM RATE PCER HSWS)       50.2       50.2       .9.3              67.9                     67.6
tDWE DEATh W-kTE (PER WOS)        20.3       16.9       13.6              19.2                     15.2
GROSS eWPcrTo  RATE                3.4        3.4        3.6               3.2                      3.2
FArLT FLAMING
ACCEPTORS. AFIWAL (TiCS)          ..        8.3       33.Ic
flIERS CZ Or Kalain 16ME.)        ...3                   07
PMOAD -   t Er*TION
zM5t or Fon PROD. PtM caTs
(l946-n-lCcO)                     93.0      101.0       72.0              $7.8                     95.7
IE CAPITA SuEPT OF
LORIES t or RSQCEITS)           92.0       98.0       88.0              88.0                     97.1
PDOTEIS (iAS MM DAT)            43.0       51.0       44.0              51.2                     56.0
OF' W1CH ASl0L AlJID PSE       13.O       17.0       15.0kc            13.1                     17.2
GR.O CACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        30.6       24.6       18.9              25.7                     23.6
LifE EDCT. Ar *tRS  YEARS)        64.8       49.9       56.5              67.4                     S1.9
lAStr MITf. RATE (PM 'THOUS)     142.9      121.6      tO1.0             126.5                    117.6
ACCMES TO SAFE VAMES CtIC)
TAL                               ..       33.0       33.01.            26.7                     25.4
138*3                             ..       86.0       s6.G7f            56.8                     70.3
RUMAL                            .*        14.0       14.07;            18.3                     12.3
AES TO ETA DISPOSAL
(2 or POPMATION)
taL                               ..       55.0        56.10/           28..
R                                 ..       92.0       ,s.Y7'            65.7
t.                                .        40.0        O.d7;            21.9
mpar..lTa ?a  -ur!sczu         2t6JO.0    12910.04   7630.0            27420.6                 t1218.'
FOr. MM nSPTT  m i                 0O9f    ioo.        780.0            3456.2                   2292.0
po. PER 8EOS7TL
TOTAL                         1290.0      760.0       660.0/c         1163.:                   1073.4
OWlI                           300.0/f    770.0      sio.o7;S 3!0.6                             402.3
UIUAL                        47s9M.o71    890.0       7l..7;          3177.5                   39s .7
ADMISSION  Ra ROsprTAL. MD.
AVERAE  SItfE Or  SE.OLO
TOMS                              .         4.7
waif.                                         .t. ..                    ..
rEA                               ..         ..         .                  ..
AVERUAE No. OF PSOWSIROSI
TOTs^L,...                                            ..                ..
ma                       ,.          ..         .                 ..
AcS :0 tECT. (  r 0IS2LISCS
TOTAL
RI                ___                      ____ _ _____



5LnI COPY AVAILABLE                                               ANNEX I
-40-
Page 2 of 5 pages
S      L C  IA
- SOC?A .I ICATOS DATA SPrET
MOST                     (NST RECCET ESTDATEN) lb
/b  REC UT             LOW ICME               UDOLErTCGqE
1960o      1970- 9ST24AT          ArRICA S. Or SAHARA    AIRICA S. Or SAIARA
ADjtSTC  ENItoLLtErT RATIOS
PR WAIT:  TOTAL                  38.0        64.0       69.0               63.9                     97.2
mgLE                   32.0       73.0        77.0              ".6                     103.1
TENAL?.               25.0        5b.0        60.0              51.6                     86.5
SECONDARYS TOTAL                  3.0        14.0       36.0               12.5                     17.2
MALE                    9.0       21.0       *4.0               16.7                     23.5
PWALE                  3.0         8.0       27.0                6.1                     14.2
VOCATIONAL  Z OF SECONDARY)        12.6       23.3         3.5/d             7.3                       5.2
MUPML-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          31.0       30.0        27.0/d            46.4                     42.9
SECONDARY                        lk.0L       17.0       iJ.07d            25.1                      23.7
ADULT LITEXAC  RATE CZ)            27.0/h     30.2          ..              36.5                     37.1
conrsirion
PASSCNCER CARS/THOUSA%O POr         3.0        4.6         3.8/               .3                     18.8
RADIO RECEIVERSITHOSAW.n  POP      *2.7       81.6       162.6              43.3                     97.8
TV RECEPERS/THOUISA.D POP           0.1/1      1.9         5.0               2.2                      13.6
NEVSPAPER CDAILY GEERAL
lUTERWr) CIRCULATION
PER TNOUSAND pOPULATION           30.0       48.2        30.5               6.7                      18.2
CINDIA AWNtAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     1.6        2.2         0.4               1.0                      0.6
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TiUs)         2919.0     3421.0      4396.0
IDEALZ (PERCENT)                 42.6       42.1        *1.1              34.5                     36.1
AGRICULTtRE (PERCENT)            66.0       538.0       53.0              76.9                      56.8
IDUSTRY (PERCEENT)               14.0       17.0        20.0               9.8                     17.5
PARTICZPATION RATE (PERCETr)
TOL*2. 2.9                                   39.7       37.2              40.9                      37.0
MALE                             50.0       66.6        64.0              53.0                     7.1
ALE                              36.0       33.0        30.4              28.9                     27.0
-ECONOMIC DEDENCY RATIO             1.1         1.2        1.3                1.2                      1.3
IT Or  DISTRIDUTIOV
PEREMNT OF PRIVATE INCOME
REcEIVD By
RIcGRST s: or HOUSEIHOLDS                      ..
IOVEST 2O0 OF l}DUSEHOLDS    --
LOWEST 6: OF HOISENICLDS
P0932 TARGT CROUPS
EST IMAED ALSOLUTE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
R3AM.                                          .       307.01d           16.S9                     54.2
RURA                                -                    o50  174         87.4                    255.9
ESTDtATED REtATIVE POvERtY INCOvE
LEVEL (CSS PER CAPITA)
UILRA                              .          .        156.01d           100.8                    491.5
RIIIL                              .           .       t30.0Ti            64.6                    o88.1
ESTIATED POP. ULOW ABSOLVTE
POVERTY IHCOME LEVM tZ)
URRA.N                             ..          ..5
ROIL                                                                      69.0                       .
RRL..                                          .                 ._        9._0      _
NOT AVAILABLE
MOT APPLICABLE
|. The group a--ages for each tadicator are rop.lattaw-wetgohted arithletic ousne. Coverae ot countrtes among the
tndIctors depeds on avallabilIty of data and Is not antfor..
lb Untles otherwtae noted. Data for 1960- refer to dan year between 1959 snd 1961; Data for 1970 betwee  1969 and
1971; ad data for Mast Recent Ecttmtet between il79 and 1981.
/e  1977; ld 197F; to 175; /t 1962: t Regstoered. qnt all practicing tn the country; /b Agl 6 and aver; It 1964;
I Pube Sehoole only.N
Iby 1983



ANNEX I
-41 -                                                                Page 3aof5pages
Wmsf mewlait  .a51aWme
mtlwlaiml.  i she..l..ee      seam , mc  Its1 seee.e  C            pemelleihm mI"..lMegag Al No tee  HOWl 55m M   asinin botirb  or  ejemye S              he c-arise v B e
g.m. hemtecetintsemi*sitmlsm   tIe 5beseeeae  l *5ttt5  dem  th  i51.a It  --ped.    -- -  heeeleaam     Pt mi  em,s~ gmat        1 sm oe. minding a-s  Is I
emeelsa  3m  aat Esmmertmeat  -sSEmle  iso  manMr  them.            "     diem    e "e`e . scIsi lteH.e Sq th   weiss ml  -  idIgim  elm  simmrb ea*   hee..       ya
MU (iewmd    mile1".)                                                                              he-11-o   ..-ol     %o  .R-..-7-19A.stsmi   ..e I- ,ae  -o espeimaist ds git5  h   beher er. Pecci d
medot      ill, deem t"tadn.ftNWlememeattrw"a  eem.1-Psoimiem1acimi  p eter me-9 sestm
so1  mm   40tne.ewime   '  ieiw    .   - wsm.  ee. md este                                                                                                             p imitita  tmtag
4Rj1...1:=l    -agoot. Pf   -1- -nd tro"noll, w  V.....m"itmed eem5  dS.sdde  these resestate mboa.m  mla &-wtI  tedso
m     .,oeaeTn p- e trob-  1- aeams-l      -9 npa ew ASsIaeete ml gamte hbo                      ftedlem   cease. Wear.m ret Lmti  Will  hooIm P15          . lee-O-sa he    .-erdls
heIi to"i. lam I  Ie sraw   empi el 5ast. aedt  as"11 eaifeit, taelee
IUD.IIII.e -CaMe  es.La.mtsemt     em   my                  55.ilS  mdlitSeeime- lbo avim  -. tetas me.                                     ehee at.b-   boows gwmaa same  Mtl tw
dnffew,O    i4 SAWl                                                                                 ties t.wcpd tmai dft,.e hn the iee    atr bd..w ttl
The.L  0pstA. mc ImeitIs  141Ssmsafe. sane11l eMLa. mm s- mi. psm-wT.taeft
meek~ ,4  ga.slrmsi59c ,45t.  e  5 SCi mmcm. .eue.  tmteei   5re    a   emtt I-sim.mt.   .tm
matss  pa ".5-  m-ae-&3m.altes    asei) muo,  lerSwsti                                          the hemmhmttlin  estaImiwp
"L.te   dmst5e Im lteciss ev        cace  -i'ea  imeas tt  bed Net imetl                     teme 0-b  Pimtrt-E. lefEraet t  deesis t)-tc,eme,a iem
plaicvb paetrmts    ete, es.L61-tiet  thee am tta l-    &--het  it                              Camc-sslaalortt imml   tergt  nti  e  .mer  mpsm
deheeimiwe  mreus_      edI ettiity ora_,- tLmd Let- ei-L.sispame.                            weak, etee, s.  itmmi  mi  icsram               -iel.
mie   wileo h r .me em. is tiaa    wi the  teeh  a., ted erlsea tie ems                        o Emcstts    rw    A~.1doL18    oot"
tSnameee-   uit  emmin.   ti  . saLiesmt  miterL Aem-it.is.
.1-Wse se t       .--mL.e e "-Im  ml teselefldaieeae0leise steeaeayaeaSC-m-Ces   eMgai   n    ml
mai semed  teem  s0-seo TepM .m Semna msaa.te.4  -the ei.e-MmmIeekeeemium s   h    nte   ae  m   eamtei   sp
passejle  eleM    e  metamstcmth  hat -lsh  peJmttofites                                          psmrisetmi-eeempveimdlmsweiisetadm"tmtdeeinet0
leer tUtirmi  netr"eWeratd- h   m                        atattamaipLsine smem pap -                                 im a9- helen      .      -Lm heall -Vm nheiW   --
...          ,e*e*e  el.h   esoo.etmte   maii.a    et    a   lete   Ned Irinipleaaeimi
nt.n    W. tle asPleitate. M,                                                            emi o-Saat eabbrtiLa . leenaido. atcmse)-VestL  iemtitsmitm
he1eta   m.ttaei I eee.t .(cidm   (0-dyeLs),etliasem   ll.                                 itimim  tei"heTi *f ia.e5r-. ti mmtr .a-mesani - apeMt. amn-
yamo.tw  psittwletljS Isremd Ittoo..aa                                                                                                                                       Itoae  tce
Pee-tetime C.-%ml ftce m peu-  I -  ta  -*.w   tiieth rMs. s.C aitmi                              Mess 1wt--e  rat  C-e            - L2t--ee  aact.s  tooe  it imi maw alit)e
pamiltwam  Lt. hId-Ic  ;ccaItt. an'1-' .                                                          5. eem s .im 11   s.eLl seL Pass WMte  snod 1i jeero ad tsar.
Olssebat'  eme  iee    ma-eel at mei."  dantel yertheam sa mlai-Ue                          temma   ae             tmmm   meite      Psaqece  is                      NWs sm fts
empetctat    sIc,   ii? .  -m -I-, -es t.                                                  eaOOll m       esdtee    estm   i etsi;    sre1w    lm mm mm.h ersa.
teiseImpeUiteprsdIIme  mreema  Ieme  ertmllm5                                                            b te -stet  ee  -h.mamd  wm.Ieses  - Ml tee roloa-cfmi oar  medI
belY  flhte   a         leeesmts- e t  Cet1 m.e.t) - teste  st.A er flanaeoat On  he slast; date 1- eate, "omi sef  a  he espem                                             1 me  fas
pl-m  hiaes  wete                ..  eae      ai   -ttemre   esee  maemwirmeI   w 9itatat-er,le  5TV555m   iTVee
m  ot  ..t.Leca.     eeet   er                                                              eeemrcwcsma    yerte...na  .r.,.mses    rye..s   mm
leeSsea  mm clendr rtr baic.   mesastlm  tm~e eeeme  teeom4                    05 . aes1ti  ieegsi  e   et tr teat f-              lmedm   h          r
Ste.                                                                                (Mie letLi9 :  ob~%  LM.-d1"
Pe   asmwsm.e   ettw   me,a   etetemea-CeetdIem.'uTfTeCinlhsees      maeelpstI   mse.lwelg   ee
met,tdmh.esa  eal    ismetemtid   ne  teeP-d, fle.-msepeemiml ItS. 1570met 1161 data
ti  a    m  dbriacsea plooC .selesle   m  allotevc&eles    Leogoneteens                       ZedmeecIpeecet I   bear oft.,m is ewle *at- tamte-Ib.  e.lent
Fir  mcli. telde . mlo Pmei   w1-s. ~e ml - nee.maet  lprtessI Ssst date.
tmaiastt le  elI-rmsieete5e.4t d.rct     aicFtesf.    -tlta   etn                                                      L.es .m emlt ime. mate*  ed  as i-.e tamer   otem
paM. .. atoebl, at              -.sa   Cmes  eeth meeSeees.tc150   e    sad.Ilti deem,  th-me .e hese  -  tlWad pace ises tee rab
ases   e -lar iee  fles .5  ?1O ere   m  steal0 tpel.hea"2C         e                      esftatemIeires. ssmseam  en Roo         pmalsa.           ieeeo.1   Sits seAo.
me stEel was   as -_  em...         iee eec- ait",         I1t.am   h- CSI   h                      eetiee    eaIm   aime   ne
blit  osma  laM I--- t    Past    . 'i S flts -c  C ee   egs   ieteet te nLtpmem. e.$ettmem  lens  thee,Iseee,mm  hrt                                                  C temdb   lbs 
so. eemisetems. .e  wtitmeis. titasmerrd  lt  st aineeplm:flae                          -oethee  w0meieec    eeto. P.5 Itoooas*md  onmCho iStoo.e 
at  elm  dale dr ite i-eee tlao _t-Mblam    toess  tI- 5-5 151 tphim.                            hea,mehelt6e.
Sem.sesei th 'Lk a.. mC-ss  C   ..msl  tets;         eae   ae   nttetd S,.m    ae.l.e   ae   ISts bo                                           e.im-    - abye v-*-are  I
fle  atfleleesl...e   Iwt etem;Im.-V.10a   I.em dat.                                    aeic   eeei    r    meli   Pa    e-e   sela  e                       0ae    siesati
acesml lepimesmet.  elac  se  esei. *din.1 on emmi   Sire.  emoefm,                -allestmhle.I..bo
near   g,1?  tsnlnheesrmt    'mee    ele       dsr&m btCmeem    ra let  ictmeee It-  eem ,Iced    ... t  eetct     ie  .a
lees ofee-    emesireaPts   ts   eeelsaes   1se                                                 rstimce   Pas.iasm    Smit    Pim.he .mmeiee   ymaceu- te
P"t. .I L.a ra    aeSeaete.Jtel  hmmm  eme  me                                                   ati-rretm   ammtelee  ems  daeeir ltm                         ot.iriU Mt
U---  of  ...L.    ~~~-e-t.O
.em MIT  th   aeeet-  a   ene    e-     meeprsms  mta
sh  t=itltewe  h  Is-ltymteem  =meets.1
_asta  eof  swltr  ngllsi.le.t   Is



- 42 -                                    iANNEZ I
Page 4 of 5 pages
QIAN FI~tEEC DA!IA.
GNPQ  F  CAPrEA IN 1912: U3W  -/
MM   IATCAL E1CU  D 1982                                               ANU   RiE OF GROH
_3K Constant Prices)
C*is  n.       ,                              1 9?7-
GNP at larket Prices                113,240           1CO.C0                     -0.86
Gross Thasstic Investment             1,472              1.3                    -16.40
Gross lational Saving                 i,595              1.4                    -16.45
Current Account pJance               -16.6             -0.09                       -
Eport of Goods, N                    2009.0             1.77                     -9.44
Import of Goods, m                   1959.0             1.73                    -.2
OC!RJT MD LAR FORCE
Output 191                                   Iabor Fnroe, 1992
c,dis EIn.             %                       Kin.       %
Agrwlbcle                       - 44,031               51.28                    2.9        57.2
6,440              7.95                    0.671      15.3
Sevices                           -35,395              41.22                    1.206      27.5
Total                                                  1D,866  lt.0             4.386     10D.0
Central Govem tnt
Cad! Kin.    d of UP in 19B1                  }of G? in 19
Total Pevenue and Grnts           4,855.3             6.33          5253.2             6.12
Total xbpendituze and N.'et Iendixg    9,702.9       12.66          92M.1             10.74
emli Deficit (-)                 4,847.6             -6.32         -3966.9            -4.62
MU, MEDr AM iCES
1976     1977     1978     1979     198B     1981      192
IY'w and Qpzasi-avny              1,993    3,044    5,131    5,942    7,949   12,029   15,a72
Bnk Credit to Paiblic Sector      1,966    3,203    5,636    6,537    8,48    14,043    1,714
2Bnk Credit to Private Sector       3E5      560      739      796      940    1,342    1 ,55
CParzcntages or Tnde Nw=bers)
d Quasioney as & of GIP           29.2     Z7.3     24.4     21.1      19.4     15.7     17.6
Ceoeal Price Index (1;Th1lco)      46.2    102.0    173.1    257.3    401.2    868.6   1062.4
1/ Staff is3zate
S    Epc~o 1963



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                          ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
- 43 -
__A___OF P___  _                                          NF}RONDISE LTMI, (AVI EWE 19;8-Q)
1983    l9B1    ~1WM 1/Sa Minm.                                 % 
coae asans & products  654.5      72.9
Trade Ba3ance           182.3     Z-3      9.2             Thiber I      & Products   3.2    4.3
-  Ets                1&.9    766.3    67.2               Gold                   135.1      15.0
lints                -1024.6   -7S-7   -529.0            Diamonds                 10.3      1.1
lanBanese               9.6        1.1
lmvisibles (Net)      -168.0  -140.4  -114.8              AlU Other Goods         50.1       5.6
Services              -247.7  -2.3   -197.2
Tiunsfers               79.7    82.9      82.4           Total                   87.8 I7O.8
COrrent B92an            16.3  -162.7   -16.6
Cta Accmts
Official Capital (NJet)  187.9    57-3    149.7            mn&L ], M         m- 1992
Piivate Capital (Net)    19.8    26.3     31.7
kreeraP~r~nts           78.9    141.4    35.2                                            1; lI.
Overall Balance          81 .5   -262.5    56.4           Total Outstandirzg and
Gross InMesasael                                                   d -TU      *            1648.6
R3erves (&: of Period) 197.6    183.8    225.9           Tobtal O tandirig and
rhused ica. Scort-term          1163.6
Pebruaz 19'i - Je 18, 19M                                   %r SEVIC  ?I F'R 191
tt1 .15. 
Smoc AUZst 26, 19781                                      TotEal Otstmixng and
-$  2.75                                            and Disb1med MM                 10.7
Total Outstmnding and
]sbaursed incl. prnt arrears   17.9
IJ/mD  I       ('-rsch 31, 183)
otstmAiig and
Disbrsed             tO.2      1Z.1
nidisbzsed              18.9      94.2
Oztstwiding, inc.
Uodisbjrsed          149.1     216.3
1/  Provisinal etimates subject to -dn8.
2/  TIncldes errors anrd oiss ims.
3/ .Actal data not available. Fstimtes OnY..
Septober 1t9



- 46 -             BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-CAII
Page 1 of 1 page
SLAMM  OF BANK ION AND ID aflS (As of Sepgin r 30, 1983)*
M or                                                                        kvnt CU$)
dit       Fiscal                                                         J.ess       (to)____ /
--de         erBroe                                                        Less Caneflation   I1
Pupose              Bank     A,       xislNred
loans and tblve credits fully dishised                              118.5  89.9
-(        19.5 Republic of Ghana          QU1 Palm                           13.6       0.6
E2-M       1975 Post & Teleemunications  2Delsuuir tior    s          23.0             9.2
10-Q}     1975 Republic of Ghana           Nat'l Investrmit Bark       10.0             0.4
1S2-M    J1975 Republic of Ghana           Second Higlhy               18.0             0.1
I-41T-GH2/   1976 Republic of Ghana           gricultural Dev.           21.0             5.8
.-GH      1979 Republic of Ghana           Second NIB                        19.0      12.6
1I-ll     1980 Republic of Ghana            griciutural Dev.                 29.5      25.9
,9-GH       1980 Republic of Ghana          Third HIgluy                       25.0      7.1
O-GH     1981 Republic of Gbana           RaFiwy                           29.0      28.2
- --7-GH 3/   1983 Republic of Ghtn         Reconstnrction CTlM)               9.3       9.1
- GR S3/   1983 Republic of Ghana          Water Sapply                      13.0      13.0
- 3-al    1983 RePulic of Ghana           E1er  Project                      11.0      10.6
'3-GH     1983 Republic of Ghna           Reconstruction laport       _      40.0      40.0
Total                                                190.5 279.3
of which has been paid                                46.0   2.9
Total rxr outstanding                                144.5 276.4
mount sod                          0.4
of which has been repaid           0.4                 0.0   0.0
Total r  belld by Brk and MA                         144.5 276.4
Tbtal undisbursed                                     15.5 147.1    162.6
lle status of the projects listed abe is described in a separate report on all Bank/I financIAl projects
execution, kidch is updated twice yearly and circalated to the Executive Directors  i 4Vril 30 and
ober 31.
There hIE been no IFC operaticn in Gma.
Prior to ehnge adjustments.
Interest subsidy furd (Third Windwr).
Not yet effective.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 Pages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:   April 1981
(b)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   August 1981 (original)
May 1983 (reappraisal)
(c)  Date of completion of Negotiations:         November 14, 1983
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:              January 1984
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
An advance of US$300,000 under the Project Preparation Facility
granted to prepare the mining component of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement and the Special
Fund Credit Agreement for the Export Rehabilitation Project to be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 94);
(b) Carrying out of a study and its recommendations on the Timber Export
Development Board and the Forestry Products Inspection Bureau (paras.
70 and 71);
(c)  Carrying out of a study and its recommendations on the alternative
strategies for the ownership and management of the State-owned timber
companies (para. 73);
(d) Carrying out of studies and their recommendations on (i) viability
and divestiture of cocoa plantations, cocoa aproducts factories and
insecticides factories, (4i) private trucking of cocoa, (iii)
corporate planning and management information system, (iv) alterna-
tive cocoa marketing systems, and (v) procedures for receiving at
ports, storing and shipping of cocoa and cocoa products (para. 58);
(e) Carrying out of a study and its recommendations on shaft sinking and
tailings in the mines at Prestea and Tarkawa and alluviat deposits in
Dunkwa area (para. 88);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(f)  Contracting an international mining company to manage the State Gold
Mining Corporation (para. 88); and
(g) Carry out of a study and its recommendations on port management at
the Tema and Takoradi ports (para. 91).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4 pages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance and Consultants Requirements
And Estimated Costs
A.  Technical Assistance Personnel   B.  Consultant Studies   Estimated Costs (A + B)
No.         man-years                  (man-months)         Foreign   Local   Total
(US$ milions)
Cocoa Sector             14              31                          23                3.8      0.6       4.4
Timber Sector            11              16                          19                2.0       0.3      2.3
Mining Sector            tbd             60                          33                7.4      0.9       8.3
Port Sector               4               4                           6                0.6      0.3       0.9
Project Preparation under
PPF (Mining Sector)       -               -                          17                0.3       --        0.3
Total               --            lll                           98               14.1      2.1      16.2
Note: Details of the requirements for each sector are shown
on the following pages of this Annex.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4 pages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Details of Technical Assistance and Studies
A. Cocoa Sector
Technical Assistance                   Studies/Consultants
Positions   No.   Years   man-years                          man-months   Completion by
(Assistance to
GCMB)           Advisor to Chief
Executive           1      3          3      - Financial viability
of cocoa plantations
Advisor to Produce                             and procedures of
Buying Division    1       3         3         divestment                8        June 1984
- Financial viability
Financial Advisor  1       3         3         of cocoa products
Accountant          1      2         2         factories and insec-
Procurement Advisor  1       2          2        ticides formulation                                  4
Estate Advisor      1      2          2        plants and procedures                                X
of divestment              4       June 1984
Agronomy Advisor   1       3          3      - Corporate planning and
Training Supervisorl       1          1        management information
system                     6       August 1984
Vehicle Workshop                             - Procedures for storage
Advisor             4      2         8         and shipping               2        June 1984
Sprayer Workshop                             -Alternative systems
Advisor             2      2          4      for cocoa marketing          3        June 1985
Total Cocoa Sector  14                 31                                  23



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4 pages
B. Timber Sector
(a)  Assistance to         Managing                              -Review of Government
Ministry of Lands    Director               1    2    2      strategies for state-
and Natural           (TEDB)                                 owned timber companies                 September 1984
10
and concession policy                 June 1985
Resources (MLNR)      Managing Director    1    2    2
(FPIB)
Grader Registrar      1    2    2    -Review of progress               .4   June 1984 and
(FPIB)                                of ERP                                 thereafter
annually
Grader Trainer        1    2    2    -Study of FPIB, TEDB
(FPIB)                                requirements                      5    October 1984       S
(b)  Assistance to NIB    Loan Admin. Officer  1    2    2
(c) Assistance to
state-owned
timber companies
- MIM Timber          Transportation Eng.  1    1    1
Diesel Specialist    1    1    1
Training Supervisor  1    1    1
- TVLC                Production Manager   1    1    1
Forestry Engineer    1    1    1
Accountant            1    1    1
Total Timber Sector        11         16                                     19



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4 page
C. Mining Sector
Technical Assistance                Studies/Consultants
man-months completion by
(a)      Assistance to Ministry of                                           Review and Monitor-                semi-
Lands and Natural Resources                                        ing of Progress           8         annually
under EFRP
(b)      Assistance to SGMC
- SGMC Headquarters       60 man-years of management and      Feasibility
- Tarkwa Mine             technical assistance including      studies on shaft-
- Prestea Mine            training through a single           sinking an. tailings
- Dunkwa Mine             management contract with an         in mines at Prestea      25         Decmber
international mining firm           and Tarkwa end                      1984
(positions to be specified at the  development of
time contract negotiations on the  alluvial deposits in                             0
basis of proposals to be made by   Dunkwa area.
various firms)
SGHC Total                                                                             33
D. Port Component
Assistance to Ghana                     Experts in port                      Port management
Port Authority (GPA)                    management and      4   4   4        studies              6
operations
Port Total                                   4   4   4                             6



ANNEX V
- 51 -                           Page 1 of 6 pages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION TEcCHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to GCHB
1.    - Advisor to Chief Executive of GCMB
An advisor to the Chief Executive will be employed for a period of
three years:
(i)   to dc:velop good management practice by the Board, the Chief Executive
and his management team;
(ii)    to act as project manager for the GCB restructuring program and to
ensure, with the Chief Executive, that implementation proceeds
according to plan. and training of local staff is properly planned and
carried out.
(iii)    to plan and control the design and implementation of the GCB
management information system includirg that needed to provide:
- top-level planning, monitoring and control of the entire cocoa
sector;
- information for the development of price recommendations;
(iv)    to assist with the establishment of the Planning, Monitoring and
Research Department. He will supervise the activities of external
consultants working in the development of the information sysL..m and
will assist the director of the department in the design and
installation of the departmental organisation.
The adviser must have experience (a) as a Chief Executive or Genera'l
Manager of a major profit-oriented quasi-governmental or nationalised industry
or (b) as a consultant in management and strategic planning to such senior
executives with experience in the design and implementation of computerised
information systems. It is important that the new GCB be controlled at the
executive level im accordance with the best management practice. In the areas
of overall planning, (long and shert range), organisation, authority
delegation and decision taking, motivation, information, cvntrol, co-
ordination, management training and development, the Chief Executive and his
deputies must perform effectively and consistently. The Chief Executive's
Adviscr would set out guidelines for good management procedures in the above
areas, and would monitor continuously the actual management process including
the relation beteween executive management and the Board, advising on improved
procedure, information etc. as necessary. There will clearly need to be
mutual trust and respect between the four senior executives and the adviser,
so this person should be carefully selected. Although reporting to the Chief
Executive, he must have tree access to the Chairman of the Board at all times
and would attend all Board meetings in his role 2s adviser to top maaagement.



- 52 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 6 pages
2. Advisor to Produce Buying Division
An adviser to PBD executive and haulage management is recommended for
three years:
(i)    to develop good management practice by the Exec-utive Director (ED)
and his senior managers by active participation in decision making
and the management process by advising and assisting with the
following:
- short and medium term planning and scheduling, the
setting of targets and objectives,
- decision taking within the limits of authority delegated to the
ED,
- monitoring PBD performance against targets and ensuring that
corrective action is taken where needed,
- training and development of senior managers in PBD,
- formulation of policy recommendations,
- coordination of PBD management effort at Read Office and in the
regions; advising on forimal and informal committees and meetings
together with the terms of reference and procedures for conductir.g
these,
- ensuring the appropriateness of management information both
financial and statistical,
- ensuring that organisation structure and the staff establishment
is appropriate throughout PBD; ensuring that staff inventories
especially in the regions are factual, and in accordance with
establishments,
- active and regular liaison with other GCB divisions in the
development of improved PBD performance, particularly Personnel
and Administration (staff training and development), Internal
Audit (verification of the purchasing and evacuation operation),
Computer Services (computerised assistance, particularly in
purchasing and evacuation), Finance and stores (financing,
accounts policy and practice, supply and distribution of inputs
and tools of trade); Procurement (supply of inputs and tools of
trade);
(ii)    to provide detailed guidance on the organisation, scheduling and
operation of PBD haulage. The adviser will be expected to ensure,
jointly with the Haulage and Transport MSanager (HK), the proper
operation of the fleet of cargo and articulaced trucks in the regions
and at the ports. He will be based in Accra and will travel
extensively to&the regions in setting up and controlling the regional
haulage activities.  He will be responsible for ensuring the
establishme it of procedures for planning, scheduling, controlling and



- 53 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 6 pages
costing the movement of haulage vehicles throughout the country, and
for ensuring, with HM, that these are implemented by regional and
port haulage managers. He will liaise closely with the procurement
adviser (see Section 5) in the scheduling and control of vehicles
allocated for the distribution of inputs from Tema and Kumasi, and
set up przcedures and guidelines for the backloading of regional
haulage vehicles and input vehicles, where appropriate, to improve
vehicle utilisation.  He will be responsible for advising on the
detailed planning and control of the day-to-day movement of the
haulage fleet in the regions, at the ports, and, in conjunction with
the procurement adviser, at the main GCMB stores at Tema (to be
established), Nsawam and Abuakwa (Kumasi). He will supervise the
introduction of the necessary procedures, and will train the haulage
officers responsible for detailed vehicle planning and control;
(iii)    to provide guidance to Regional eanagers on the implementation of the
regional organisation and staffing, and its replationship with PBD
head office and functional heads (e.g. haulage) in Accra.
He should spend initially about 70% of his time on haulage matters later
diminishing to perhaps 30% - 40%.
3.       Financial Adviser
A financial adviser to the Director of Finance is recommended for
three years:
Ci)   to plan and supervise, as necessary, the upgrading of the existing
finance and accoutlcing system and to produce up-to-date statutory
accounts for year ending September 30, 1983 by the end of June 1984
and for year ending September 30, 1984 by the end of 1984;
(ii)    to supervise the modification (where needed) and the implementation
of new accounting procedures in PBD, central GCB and other GCB units;
(iii)    to ensure that revised funding and taxation arrangements arising from
the GCB restructuring are correctly incorporated in the GCB finance
and accounting system;
(iv)    to advise on the possible computerization of financial and accounting
procedures;
(v)    to oversee the rationalisation of regional accounting procedures
resulting from the merger of GCB and PBD in the regions; and
(vi)    to review and supervise the improvement of the budgeting and
reporting procedures;
(vii)    to plan and carry out training of local staff in the various
financial units.



-54-                               ANNEX V
Page 4 of 6 pa
4. Accountant
An accountant is required for 2 years to manage the modification as
appropriate and implementation of the new accounting procedures (prepared by
the World Bank/UNDP team) in PBD, central GCB and other Divisions, departments
and subsidiary companies and train local staff on the new accounting
procedures. In addition, GCB will need to appoint, on a contract basis, at
least 8 qualified accountants to actually install the new procedures.
.5. Procurement Adviser
A procurement adviser is recommended for 2 years: Ci) to critically
examine and improve existing procurement, clearing and forwarding procedures;
(ii) to train staff in the use of the revised procedures; (iii) to ensure
quick disbursement of ERP funds; (iv) to devise procedures for an improved
input warehousing and distribution system; (v) to oversee all arrangements in
connection with the establishment of a GCB warehouse complex at Tema Port.
The warehouse will receive and distribute all inputs not fortarded direct to
destination from port transit storage.   The procurement adviser will ensure,
jointly with the ufficer in charge of the warehouse complex, that all
operating procedures are designed and correctly implemented, and that the
building and its associated vehicles and equipment are installed as planned.
He will also ensure, in conjunction with the PBD adviser on haulage management
that vehicles assigned to the warehouse complex or merely loading and
unloading there are operating effectively and in accordance with schedules.
He will be expected to advise on the design and application of stock control
procedures throughout GCB.
6. Estates Adviser
An -estates' adviser is required for 2 years:
gi)    to devise, and assist with the implementation of, an efficient and
effective organisation structure for:
- property management and maintenance
- property development and construction (particularly cocoa storage
sheds)
in major Divisior's and subsidiary companies throughout GCB and for
central GCB maintenance and for overall control;
(ii)    to actively assist with, and supervise, the shed rehabilitation and
construction program, ensuring that contractors perform according to
specifications and plans;
(iii)    to devise and implement an effective training program for the above
areas.
7. Agronomy Adviser
An agronomy adviser to the Executive Director (ED) of Cocoa Services
Division is required for 3 years:



55                             ANNEX V
Page 5 of 6 pages
(i)   to help plan and monitor programs for pest and disease control, new
planting and replanting, and yield improvement;
(ii)    to actively assist the Executive Director with the management of the
substantial reorganisation envisaged for CSD and in the selection and
training of senior field personnel. The adviser will be required to
provide technical and managerial support in the overall control of
the Cocoa Services Division (CSD) and in particular to guide the ED
in the implementation of the proposed change program in the
division.  In summary he will be required to:
- monitor progress against plan by field visits, reports and
personal interviews in all the divisions' activities and to assist
the ED to correct adverse trends,
- ensure overall that the correct inputs for the regions are
supplied and distributed promptly,
- liaise with the appropriate Government authorities to ensure that
adequate technical support is given to CSD.
The adviser should play an active role in the ED's decision making.
In the early stages the adviser would tend to act jointly with the ED, but as
the ED's effectiveness increases, the adviser would move to a more seccndary
role, monitoring all CSD activity, but only taking the initiative when the ED
fails to do so. The adviser should be a qualified agronomist with experience
of management at a senior level.
In addition to his role as adviser to the ED he will be expected to
advise and support the Regional Cocoa Officers (RCO) concerned in the
management and technical control of all the important regional activities of
CSD. He would:
-  actively assist the RCO's to ensure that regional objectives are
achieved and policies are observed,
- monitor progress against plan, by reports and field visits, in all
regional activities of the CSD; he will be concerned both with
standards of work and the productivity of staff and will actively
assist the RCO's to bring both up to the level desired,
- ensure adequate and prompt supply and distribution of inputs,
-  assist RCO's in training managers and technical staff, liaising as
necessary with Head Office.
The adviser would also be expected to advise the ED and assisc with
the planning and control of all extension activities (including farm
rehabilitation and SSVD control) and devise monitoring procedures which would
effectively measure performance in these areas.



-56 -                              ANNEX V
Page 6 of 6 pages
8. Vehicle Workshop Advisers
Four vehicle workshop advisers are recommended for 2 years each:
(i)    to upgrade the operations of existing regional workshops and in
particular to:
- design and implement procedures for the control of work, stock
and stores, and workshop costs,
- train and develop managers, foremen and tradesmen,
(iii)    to establish, equip and staff the new base workshops at Tema,
Takoradi and Abuakwa (Kumasi), in conjunction with the officers in
charge. The four advisers should be allocated to workshops as
follows:
one each for
- Kumasi (regional), Abuakwa (base), Sunyani (regional)
- Tema (base), Volta (small regional)
- Takoradi (base), Awaso (regional)
- Koforidua (regional), Agona Swedru (regional).
It should be noted that workshops will underta'.e the mechanical and
electrical maintenance and overhaul (at base workshops) of all
vehicles and otner equipment such as scales, coffee processing
maclhines and forklift trucks.
9. Sprayer Workshop Advisers
Two sprayer workshop advisers are considered to be the absolute
minimum necessary for a period of 2 years each:
(i)    to supervise workshops and stores;
(ii)    to train staff and develop officers in charge of depots (the complete
worksbop and store complex);
(iii)    to develop, document and implement efficient procedures for work
control, stock and stores -control and the ordering of spare parts and
tools, at Swedru, Bunso, Kumasi, Bechem, Jasikan and Tarkwa.
One of the two advisers should also supervise the establishment of a
new depot at Sefwi 'Wiawso.



57                                ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2 pagi-
GHANA
EXPORtT REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
An Outline of Cocoa Sector Studies
The following consultant studies would be undertaken under the
proposed project to assist GCMB to address key institutional issues of the
cocoa sector.
1. Cocoa Processing Company Ltd., and Abuakwa Formulation Plant
A study is required to determine the current and long term viability
of the Cocoa Processing Company Ltd., which comprises the three factories:
-    Cocoa Products Factory (Tema)
-    Cocoa Products Factory (Takoradi)
-    West Af rican 1ills
and of the Abuakwa Formulation Plant. The study should establish current and
forecast product markets, costs, income, profits and capital development
costs. The method of costing raw material (cocoa beans) for CPC Ltd. should
also be reviewed and recommendations made. The existing cost effectiveness
(particularly of staff) would be reviewed and assessed. For this work a
process engineer and a financial analyst would be required for a total of
about four man montas. The study should be completed by June 1984.
2. Corporate Planning and Management Information
A study is recommended to design a corporate planning and management
information system for senior GCB management. During the study the consultant
would, among other things:
-    review and establish the information needs of GCB senior management,
-    review existing management information and procedures for its
generation,
-    develop, with management, a corporate planning and monitoring system
for GCB,



58 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2 pages
plan the implementation of the new system, proposing the organisation
structure and staffing for Planning, Monitoring and Research
Department (PMRD),
-    develop outline procedures specifying all main work routines; and
-    assist with the selection and training of staff for PMRD.
In addition, a study would be performed to identify all feasible
computer applications in GCB, with emphasis on financial and operations
reporting systeus. The above work is estimated to require about 6 man months
and should be completed by August 1984.
3. Procedures for receiving at port, storing and shipping produce
A study is recoamended of the procedures, reports, organisations and
staffing involved with the receipt at port, the storage and shipment of
produce, using the findings of Cocoa III Prefeasibility Study Background Paper
J, Sections 2.8 and 3.11 as a basis:
()    to identify redundant and inefficient procedures and reports, and
hence staff, in the above system;
(ii)    streamline procedures and reports, organisation structure and
staffing in the units concerned;
(iii)    to recommend more efficient and effective ways of employing Ghana
Cargo Handling Company to move produce within the port.
The Study which should be completed by June 1984, would require one
systems analyst for about two months.
4. Coffee and Cocoa Plantations
A study of those plantations not recommended for abandonment by the
recent study undertaken by the University of Science and Technology, Kumasi,
is proposed to assess their long term viability as profitable enterprises.
The study would check yields currently assumed by GCB and CSD, estimate
capital needs, and project income and costs under realistic Ghanaian
conditions. The study would also investigate the possibility and methods of
sale or of parcelling out the plantations among farm workers currently working
there.  Before the study can commence, some surveying of the plantations will
be required. The study which should be completed by June 1984 would require
one agronomist and one financial analyst for a total of about 8 man months.
5. Cocoa i4arketing and Input Delivery Systems
A study is recommended to identify and evaluate alternative
arrangements for cocoa marketing and the delivery of illputs. The study would
investigate the prospects and implications of the privatisation of cocoa
marketing and input supply with particular reference to the reintroduction of
the multiple buying system, and would recommend appropriate action. Capital
needs and operating coscs for the various total systems considered should be
carefully assessed. The study, which should be completed by June 1985 would
require a marketing specialist for about 3 man months.



ANNEX Vll
59                                Page 1 of 12 page-
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for
Technical Assistance to the Timber Sector
INSTITUTIONAL REQUIREMENTS
1.       Managing Director - Forest Products Inspection Bureau
The Managing Director will be contracted for a tlhree year period
commencing as soon as possible. Initially, he will function within the
Forestry Department heading the Interim Timber Grading Section (ITGS) and
report to the Chief Conservator of Forests through the Utilization Division.
He will work in close liaison wih Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
during this critical period. His goal after one year will be the founding of
the Forest Products Inspection Bureau (FPIB). Ultimately he will be
responsible to the Board of Directors of FPIB for its administration.
The Managing Director will plan, organize, staff, direct and control
the takeover of the grading functions from GTNB.  He will budget for and
determine the necessary association dues and salary administration burdels,
etc. to fund the ITGS and FPIB and obtain the necessary approvals for the
funding 1/ from XFEP as required.  He will ensure that the following functions
are performed:
Ci) establishment of standard grading rules and their publication;
(ii) establishment of grader certification, and registration procedures;
(iii)  establishmrnt of necessary grading regulation and control procedures
from forest log tagging and stamping through all product grade
markinig and documentation;
(iv) establishment of grader training programs;
(v)  dissemination of information to Government, industry, TEDB, and the
media;
1/       The interim source of funding will be from royalties currently
supporting GT4B which is to be phased out of existence. The funding currently
utilized by GT.14I will be directed to supporting the grader trainers and other
staff to be hired from all available sources for ITGS, and later FPIB.



- 60 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 12 pages
(vi) founding and administration of FPIB within one year of the signing of
his contract, ensuring a mirLimum tenure of two years within FPIB;
(vii) evaluation, development and training of staff for management
succession;
(viii) provision of monthly accounting statements and audited annual reports
to the Board of Directors, with explanation of variances to budget.
The Managing Director will be located initially within the offices of
the Forestry Department Utilization Division, but will determine the best
central location as the staff increases. The Managing Director will be a
senior administrator, with at least 10 years experience in the wood products
industry. He will posses a high level of integrity and proven leadership
capabilities. Tropical hardwood experience would be an asset but not
mandatory. A minimum of 8 years organization and staffing of multi-branch
operations is essential.
2.       Registrar of Graders - Forest Products Inspection Bureau
The Registrar of Graders will be contracted for a two-year period
commencing as soon as possible and will report to the Managing Director within
the ITGS and later the FPIB.  His responsibilities will include:
hi) establishment of grading rules. With the aid of the Grader Training
Supervisor, and key personnel on temporary short loan from industry,
the Registrar will establish the industry standard grading rules for
logs, lumber, veneer and plywood, and draft the grading rules
suitable for publication. He will apply international grading
standards wliere possible, assess existing rules in use in Ghana and
the major market places for products exported from Ghana. He will
appraise any special features of Ghana timber and products and
develop special grades unique to Ghana if practical and if an aid to
export marketing;
(ii) establishment of an examination and certification procedure for
graders. With the aid of the grader Training Supervisor the
Registrar will set the standards for different levels of graders, set
written examinations, and set standards for scrutinizing of hands-on
grading examination;
(iii) establishment of registration procedures for graders, the issuing of
certificates, and the control of grading standards by ensurig
examination and re-registration every two years;
(iv)  establishment of product grade spot checking, randomly and on
locatiozL, to ensure that grading standards are upheld;
(v) establishment of stamping, tagging, and marking procedures of all
products and control records procedures to ensure that fraud is
eliminated;
(vi) staffing of the certification and registration section of FPIB under



ANNEX VII
- 61 -                           'Page 3 of 12 pages
the guidance of the Managing Director, and the development and
training of the staff for succession;
(vii)  assignment of certified graders to forest and mill operations and
liaison with mill management for their grading needs;
(viii) assist the Grading Rules Committee of the FPIB in the ongoing re-
.evaluation of the grading rules and the settling of any disputes.
The Registrar will be located initially within the offices of the
Forestry Department Utilization Division.
The Registrar will be an intermediate/senior administrator with at
least 6 years experience in the hardwoods industry, specifically with
experience in Africa hardwoods and previous working experience in Africa. He
will have an excellent knowledge of grading, and the administracion procedures
involved. He will show a proven record of dealing with mill. management
personnel and administering a staff of independent self-reliant certified
graders.
3.       Grader Training Supervisor - Forest Products Inspection Bureau
The Grader Training Supervisor will be on contract for two years
commencing as soon as possible and reporting to the Managing Director within
the ITGS and later the FPIB. He will work in close cooperation with the
Registrar in helping to establish the grading rules (refer to 2-i);
examination and certification procedures (2-i); registration procedures (2-
iii); stamping, tagging and making procedures (2-v); and assistance of the
grading rules committee (2-vii 2. He will ensure chat the grading rules are
practical, easy to understand, teach and administer, and therefore he will be
cognizant of all possible rule incerpretations which will enhance his training
capacity. The Training Supervisor will be responsible for establishing an
industry-wide training prngram. He will staff and teach a nucleus of
certified graders to train graders on location at three larger mills and in
central committees.  His responsibilities will also include the assignment and
supervision of Grading Trainers as required throughout Ghana. He will liaise
with educational authorities as required to setup short courses and night
school courses as indicated.
The Grader Training Supervisor will be located initially within the
offices of the Forestry Department Utilization Division. The Grader Training
Supervisor will be an intermediate level supervisor with at least 3 years
training experience, 2 to 5 years forest industries experience, and a good
knowledge of grading tropical hardwoods. He will be capable of inspiring
confidence and enthusiasm in the grading trainers on his staff.



ANP"'-X VII
- 62 -                          Page 4 of 12 pages
4.       Managing Director - Timber Export Development Board
The Managing Director will be contracted for two years commencing as
soon as possible. Initially, he will be responsible to ML&NIR and the Forestry
Department to establish the Timber Export Development Board. The Managing
Director will plan, organize, staff, direct and control the establishment of
TEDB with the goal of servicing the forest products industry and developing
the export market. The Managing Director's functions will include:
(i) developmetit of a budget for TELB, and approval for the funding 1/
from MFEP. Ongoing funding of TEDB to be from a small royalty on
exports;
(ii) establishment of a marketing intelligence and statistics unit which
will retrieve information and data Initially from Ghana's main
markets and ultimately from potencial new markets,
(iii) analysis of the intelligence and statistics to make marketing
projections;
(iv) the dissemination of market intelligence, statistics, analysis and
projections co the industry frequently and responsibly, aiming to
issue a weekly bulleting containing these kinds of information;
(v) the establishment of an Export t4arket Development and Information
System with officers or agents located initially in the U.K. and
Germany/Wlasrern wurope, and ultimately in other new market areas as
required. These agents will be actively engaged in information
retrieval, promotion and the servicing of customers as required.
They will also provide assistance with complaints and claims, and
will provide data on wood characteristics, uses, etc. to the market
place;
(vi) liaison with marketing associations and key producers to assist in
the rapid development and servicing of export markets;
(vii) provision of monthly accounting statements and audited annual reports
for the Board of Direccors, with explanations of variances to budget;
(viii)  evaluation, training and development of staff for management
succession.
The tanaging Director will be located in Accra to take advantage or
the international communications systems available.
1/       The interim source of funding will be from royalties currently
supporting GTHB which is to bc phased out of existence.



- 63 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 12 pages
The Managing Director will be a senior administrator with 10 to 15
years of experience in marketing African hardwoods, and with a minimum of
seven years experience in marketing management. He will have proven
leadership qualities, and willingnest to serve the industry. He will also be
capable of inspiring his market development assistants to promote Ghana
producta and monitor Gliana's industries' willingness and ability to meet sales
obligations responsibly.
5.       Timber Industry Advisor - National Investment Bank
The TimberIndustry Advisor will be contracted for a period of
eighteen months with a contract provision for an extension of an additional
six months if necessary . He will be located within the NIB offices where he
will coordinate and assist the efforts of the ERP Technical EvaLuation
Committee in the short-term.
The Timber Industry Advisor's functions will include:
(i) assistance in finalization of the implementation procedures by
Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources (ML&NR), N1B, and World Bank,
and development of the implementation schedule and coordination of
the efforts of ML&NR and NIB;
(ii) monitoring of procedures during the initial stage to ensure the
effectiveness of the implementation, and recommendation of clanges if
required;
(iii) assistance in ensuring that the commercial bank approved applications
comply with the ERP criteria;
(iv) technical evaluation of the commercial bank approved applications as
a member of ERP Technical Evaluation Committee, and assisting with
the economic considerations which will be performed by the tIL&NR and
NIB economists;
(v) assistance in ranking the commercial bank approved applications in
order of priority for loan approval, thus ensuring that the maximum
foreign exchange will be generated by the ERP loan;
(vi) familiarization with all significant aspects of each application for
presentation to the Loan Review Panel;
(vii) performance of the secretaiial funiction for the Loan Review Panel;
(viii)  provide technical advice to exporter loan applicants when deemed
necessary;



ANNZX V11
- 64 -                          -Page 6 of 12 pages
The Timber Industry Advisor will be a senior engineer or a graduated
forester with a minimum of 12 years experience in the saw milling and-timber
industry.  He will need intimate knowledge of the forest operations,
sawmilling, veneer and plywood industries and extensive experience in
preparing and appraising applications for capital expenditures. He will
display good communication and interporsonal skills with mill owners, managers
and government officials.
PRIMARY MANUFACTURERS' REQUIREM4ENTS
1.       Transportation Engineer - Mim Timber Company Ltd.
The Transportation Engineor will be contracted for a two year period
beg'.nning in the first quarter 1984. He will be responsible to the Managing
Director, on location in Him, for the following functions:
(i) rationalization and assessment of the existing transportation fleet,
logging equipment, road building anid mill transportation vehicles to
identify, on the basis of economics and local. conditions, the
vehicles which are able to remain in service, those which are
repairable, those which should be sold "a'- is", and those which
should be scrapped or used for parts;
(ii) verificatl.on of new equipment and spares requirements and priorities
for sequencing their purclase, and the purchase of approprite spares;
(iii) determination of priorities for the rehabilitation of the existing
vehicles and equipment and the spares requirements;
(iv) specification and requisitioning of new vehicles and equipment under
the ERP and thie spares requirements;
(v) supervision of the overall mobile equipment rehabilitation program;
(vi) training of maintenance supervisors and operating personnel.
The Transportation Engineer will be an intermediate level employee
with several years of practical hands-on mechanical experience after trades
training and qualification, and at least five years of supervisory experience.
2.       Diesel Specialist - Mechanical Foreman - Mim Timber Company Ltd.
The Diesel Specialist will be contracted for a two-year period
beginning the first quarter 1984. He will be responsible to the
Transportation Engineer, on location in Him, for the following functions:



ANNEX VTI
-65 -                           Page 7 of 12 pages
(i)  assist the Transportation Engineer in the assessment of the mobile
equipment by determining the condition of the diesel engines and
Caterpillar equipment (refer to 1, i);
(ii)  assist the Transportation Engineer in the determination of the
priorities for the rehabilitation of the existing vehicles and
equipment and spares requirements by determining the diesel engine
and Caterpillar ejuipment spares requirements (refer to 1, iii);
(iii)  assist the Transportation Engineer in the requisitioning of diesel
engine and Caterpillar spares;
(iv)  supervision of the rehabilitation and repair of the diesel and
Caterpillar equipment;
(v)  evaluation and training of the diesel and Caterpillar mechanics.
The Diesel Specialist will be a qualified specialist with a minimum
of four years experience in CaterpilLar equipment.
3.       Production Manager - Takoradi Veneer and Lumber Co. Ltd.
The production Manager will be contracted for two years beginning as
soon as possible after approval of loan requests from Takoradi Vreneer and
Lumber Comqny (TVLC).   He will be responsible to the Managing Director for
the following functions:
(i)  operacion of the plymill, sawmill and door factory with the goal of
maximum ongoing profitability;
(ii)  budgeting and scheduling produccion to meet mar-ker requirements
respcnsiv.ely and plan raw material purchases and ensure optimum stock
levels;
(iii)  implenentation and mensuration of the operational criteria of:
- minimum use of all raw materials;
- maximum production of high grade and high value items;
- maximum recovery;
- minimum unit production cost;
- minimum inventories; and
- maintaining a high standard of personnel awareness of the criteria
(iv)  evaluation of existing staff, training and succession, and
development of an effective and enthusiastic teaa which operates
synergistically;
(v)  assurance of high safety standards and ongoing safety training;
(vi)  improvement of operating procedures utilizing existing equipment;



- 66                  ~~~~ANNEX VII
- 66 -              -       Page 8 of 12 pages
(vii)  identification of production bottlenecks; sources of unjustifiable
down-time; inefficient labour utilization; potential profit
improvement; and the preparation of special maintenance and capital
plans to increase profitability thereafter, while obtaining the mill
operating people's commitment to the plans.
The Production Manager will be an intermediate administrator with
about 15 years experience in forest products manufacturing and a minimum of
five years as a mill production manager.
4.       Forestry Engineer - Takoradi Veneer and Lumber Co.
The Forestry Engineer will be contracted for two years beginning in
the first quarter 1984. He will report to the tanaging Director and be
responsible for the management of all 'orest operations including:
(i) ensuring that the mill is adequately supplied with logs in accordance
with mill production program and forest logging plan;
(ii)  preparation of an annual logging plan with stock maps for the part of
the concession which is to be logged the following year;
(iii) supervision of entire forest operations including road construction
and maintenance felling and hauling with minimum damage to tQe
natural forest;
(iv)  supervision of log grading;
cv) rationalization and assessment of the existing logging road system,
its rehabiLitation and future expansion needs;
(vi)  liaison -ith the production manager to determine the mill log input
requirements to aid in planning che harvesting program, species
requirements and availability, etc.;
(vii) estimate standing wood volumes and species composition (through
inventories on a sample basis) within the existing concessions;
(viii) analysis of current and future log supply requirements, in order to
develop policies regarding TVLC's short, medium and long term log
supply;
(ix)  Cormulation of plans for the long term regeneration and conservation
of natural timber resources of the existing concessions for the
purpose of sustained yield management, taking inco consideration data
from (vii) and (viii) above;
(x) liaison with forest department as required;
(xi)  rationalization of the mobile equipmenc needs of TVLC and assessmenr
of the existing fleet and its rehabilitacion;



ANNIEX V II
- 67 -                           Page 9 of 12 pages
(xii)  overseeing that plant and vehicles used in the forest operation are
utilized with maximum efficiency and serviced regularly;
(xiii) evaluation of existing staff, training and succession; and
(xiv)  assistance to the administrative accountan_. in preparing monthly
operating budgets special maintenance and capital plans, etc. and the
,reporting of variances to budget to the Managing Director.
5.       Administrative Accountant - Takoradi Veneer and Lumber Co. Ltd.
The Administrative Accountant will be contracted for a tvo year
period beginning in the first quarter 1984. He will be responsible to the
Managing Director to evaluate and implement necessay revisions to the existing
accounting system ensuring thac the following is performed:
(i)  operation of an effective cost accounting system which responsively
reports total and unit costs in detail for all cosz centers. The
profit and loss statements will show budget amounts, monthly results,
variances from budget, last month's and year-to-date results;
(ii) preparation of monthly and annual balance sheets showing monthly
balances, budget, variances from budget, last month's and vear-to-
date balances;
(iii)  preparation of monthly cash flow projections;
(iv) measurement of the profitability contribtition of each product to
enable the Managing Director to respond to mark-et changes and enhance
profitability;
(v) project appraisal;
(vi) special maintenance and capital summaries showing the anticipated
effects on profitability;
(vii) evaluation of the existing accounting and payroll department staff,
training and succession;
(viii) testing and confirming the viability of the input daca to the
accounting system.
The Administrative Accountant will have a leasc 15 yea-s in
induscrial accounting with five years of administrative experience in the wood
products industry.



- 68 -                      ANNEX VII
Page 10 ot 12 pages
STUDY - STRATEGY PROPOSALS FOR THE FORESTRY SECTOR AND ERP REVIEW
1.       Object.  The object of Lhe studv is to review the existing situation
and formulate proposals for the development of Government medium-term and long
term strategy and investment plans for the forestry sector and forestry
industries, both privately-owned and state-owned, including renovation and
modernisation of the capital base of the entire industry, the role and options
for the future of the state-owned timber companies and investment proposals
for possible private participation, both domestic and foreign, in state-owned
companies, including the possibility of linked management and/or marketing
agreements.
The team appointed will review in the field the progress in the
implementation of the ERP short term forestry component approvals; formulate
plans for the medium (1986-1987) and long term (1988-1989) rehabilitation and
justifiable expansion of the entire forestry sector, including detail and
costs of vehicles, spares, and equipment needed; quantify benefits arising
from that further rehabilitation of the seccor, both privately-owaed and
state-owned sub-sectors, and the justification for proposals made; review
continuing restraints upon the forest industries and make recommendations for
overcoming them; check and report upon the flow of foreign exchange arising
from exporcs of forest products of all types; review the existing export
marketing system, including grading and export developmenc arrangements, and
if necessary make recommendations for improvement; and consider whether any
further studies are needed and, if so, formulate terms of reference, team
composition, cost and duration of any such study recomitended.
2.       The team will consist of two consultants, one of whom (Consultant A)
will have had long experience at a senior level of managing forestry
industries in Africa and knowledge of the marketing of African timber and
timber products and of planning, financing and implementing such projects; and
one consultant (Consultant B) with long experience as a professional forestry
engineer, pre'erably with consultancy experience in that field.  In both cases
experience of accounting and costing systems in forestry industries would be
an advantage.
3.       Forestry Consultant A will:
(a)  monitor the implementation of the ERP forestry sector, short-term
program and check and report upon the flow of foreign exchange
earnings compared to projections made in the report;
(b)  check and report the extent to which constraints upon the industry
have been removed and/or overcome.
(c)  in particular review and report upon the marketing system changes
effected by following the ERP recommendations, and the benefits or
detriments that have arisen as a consequence, and make further
recommendations if necessary;



- 69 -                   ~~~~~ANNEX VII
- 69 -                          Page 11 of 12 page-
(d) report upon the situation so far as is possible regarding the
smuggling of timber out of Ghana and under-invoicing, estimating if
possible the extent to which foreign exchange is thereby lost to
Ghana, and make further recommendations if necessary;
(e)  formulate mediun and long-term strategies to complete the
rehabilitation, modernization anLd expansion of the sector in 1986 to
-1989, i.e. a four-year investment plan;
(f) review the role and options for the future of the state-owned timber
companies, and review the investment proposals for possible private
sector participation, both domestic anid foreign, in the state-owned
companies.
4.       Forestry Consultant B will:
(a) assess feasible production/export targets of forestry produccs firms
over a four-year period (1986-1989), focussirng on improved
utilizatioa of capacity with breakdown becween the private and public
seccors;
(b) specify the four-year equipment rehabilitation reiuirements of the
four major state-owned companies, and privaLe companies, after prior
industry questionnaire assistance by t4L&NR;
'c)  assess ar.d analyse from the foreign exchange viewypoint, the three-
year import requirement for relhabilitation, modernization and
expansion of both sectors, with emphasis on the private sector,
taking into account Government's import program and external
financing possibilities, both private and public;
Cd) quantify the benefits and justification of the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of the sector, quantifying incremental
foreign exchAnge earnings;
(e) review by ML&NR the exiscing short-term criteria for private tim'ber
companies to qualify for firancial assistance under ERP, and make
further recommendations if necessary for the mediuma and long-term;
(f)  recommend the implementation mechanism *or the ERP forestry
rehabilitation and modernizacion proposals, and procuretaenr and
disbursemean  procedures consistent with program credit operations,
bearing in mind that ERP Mediurn and long-term credit should be
completely disbursed within two years.
5.       Forestry consultants A and B will be expected to cooperate fully on
all overlapping terms of reference and provide a joint report covering all
matters mentioned in the objecc of the study and points specified in paras. 3
and 4 of these TOR.



_ 70 -                           ANNEX VII
Pajge 12of 12 page-
6.       The time needed for the study is estimated to be 112 days, consisting
of 6 days travelling, 2 days briefing, 62 days field work and 42 days report
writing and printing.  During the field work the team should be provided with
a vehicle to enable them to visit mills and other facilities
FORESTR'i DEPARTMENT REVIEW AND STUDY OF FBIB AND TEDB REQUIREMENTS
1.       Objective. The objective of the study is to:
(a) review current staffing and funding of the Forestry Department with
the view to assess the ability of the staff provided to fulfill the
department objectives effectively;
(b)  review and evaluate entire complex of stumpage rates and government
fees and taxes on the forestry and forest industries sector;
(c) assess effectiveness in collection of Government forest revenues and
determine level of revenues assessed and collected 'or the current
and two previous years;
(d) examine what part of Government forestry revenues goes into general
government treasury and what proportion remains in the forestry
sector;
(e) examine if forestry revenues at the disposal for forestry
developments are sufficient for staffing of the ForcsLry Department;
(f) determine progress on national inventory which was to be carried out
with assistance form UNDP/FAO;
(g) examine Forest Department's control of concession operations and to
what extent the existing regulations are being enforced for the
purpose of ensuring sustained yield management of the concession
areas;
(h) consider the staffing and funding of the proposed Forest Products
Inspection Bureau; and
(i)  consider the staffing and funding of the proposed Timber Export
Development Board.
2.       The consultant team will consist of two consultants.  One (consultant
A) will be a graduate forestry officer with experience in concession
management preferably under West Africa conditions and with experience of
forestry accouncing procedures. The other member of the team (consultant B)
will be a person with experience in the organization and work of a typical
timber inspection bureau operating internationally.



