Docv;.nt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11931-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
MARCH 16, 1994
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a resticted disribton and may be used by recpients only in the perfomance of
their officiid duties. Its contents may not othewse be dislosed wihout World oank aotho mzaou.



Curcy Unit - Leu (Plural Lei)
US$1.00 = Lei 1350
(Januay 1994)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ROMANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
4CADXEAC YEAR
September 15 - June 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM
CEE         Central and Easte  Europe
COSA        Council on Occupational Standards and Asessment
CPD         Casa Personalului Didactic (Teachs' Center)
erB         Curriculum and Teacher Tran  Board
DOP         Department of Pre-Univeraity Eco(MOE)
DOR         Dqetment of Reform (MOE)
EDP         Editua Didactica si Pedagogica (State Textbook Publishing House)
EU          Commission of the European Union
ICB         Itational Competitive Bidding
lES         Institute for Education Scienes
MOE         Mistry of Education
MOF         Ministry of Fitance
NBC         National Board on Curriculum
NAEB        National Assessment and Examinations BoSd
NAES        National Asssset and Ex_awoais Service
NBF         Non-Bank Financed
OECD        Orgaization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU         Project Coordination IlJnit
POM         Project Opraating Mnual
RTSU        Research and Technical Sevices Unit
SIC         Curriculum and Teacer Training Service
SOB         Staement of Expenditure
SSC         Sector Steering Committee
TAB         Textbook Approval Board
TD          Technical Department
TOR         Terms of Reference
VAT         Value Added Tax
WG          Working Group
D13FINMTONS
Romania is divided into 41 districts called -judets- which form the geographical base for
both the teritorialy deconcentreted central govenment abminisrion and the local
gvwernment system. The districts are in tun divided into 2,948 municipalities, including
260 urban communities and 2,688 nual commmnities.



FOR O.FICIAL USE ONLY
RQMAMA
SfIFAPRIAL IIIPOR
Loan andPkeSjed Sumary ............................                                                     i
L BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE ............................,. 1
A. Couuay Coa  .....1......................    I
B. Education and Tning Sector ...........................                                         2
C. KeyIssues ...........................                                                          4
D. Government Stty .......................................                                        8
E. Rionaleadd SatW    fobr BankIvolvment  ........                    .................           9
TrHE PROJCr  ............................................                                             11
A. Project Objectives  ..........................................                                11
B. Project Description ..........................................    11
C.      EnI  ra-obw   naa    ........................................1
C. Enfo Men   Imat16
iL COSTS, FJNNCING ANDIMPLEMENTATION   .......................                                         17
A. ProjectCosts  ...........................................                                     17
B. ProjeFinancing ...........................................    21
C. Project Mnentad                             ..........e..a....................    23
D. Project Procurement Aran ments  .               .............................                26
B. Dsburseens.......................................... .    30
F. Status of              .........................................    31
IV. BENEUITS ANDRLKS  ........................................    32
V. AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION ..................  33
ii rept i beado n S findn  of an appi m i    whivh visitd Rana in M hl4Aprl 19   The missn, cmps
Tarims Bar (Tark Mana); JeaaffCuiophe Lacduch (Sak or                Spociai); David  eunf (Senior
Rnpoyznt an Tra4inn Specialist); Sabria luffan (Pk'm Aswistant) ad C¢neat_ Joharm Cighte (A    _s
Speilit); David Poer (Educationl Matedil Specils); Jean-Clau  Lair (Gnra Education Socialist); Simon NHock
reaberb  Taminmg Speciait); and Nadine Ducher (Pet Mouitoz  and Evaluao. Th mi;ion was a    d by Mr.
Richd Fle    fon te Resident Mso In Buchut La Acen wa raspomebo for docment poe°ng. Th Poer
R    Di   an: Hinuda Matiu  (MA3PH); Roy PWpr (D; and Jo  B an  IM .  Ralh W. Haion is th
Divion Chif and Micl H Wiehen is th Country Dicor.
This document has a rstricted dision and may be  ed by recp           only inthPf mall heir
offical duties Its contns may n  othewise be disosed wihout Wold dank authorizati



le of Contns (cont'd)
Table 3.1: Ptoject Cost Summary by Component  ............................                17
'able 3.2: Project Cost Summary by Category of Expendie .....................    19
Table 3.3: Project Cost Summary by Component and Source of Finaning ....       .........   21
Table 3.4: Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Category and Source of Financing .... .    2.    2
Table 3.5: Fancing Requiremes by Yen ................................    23
Table 3.6: Summary of Proposed Pmement          mn   ......................    27
Annex 1 :  Key Economic and Social indicators ...                                         34
Anex 2 :  Basic and Secondary Education in Romanla ........................   35
Annex 3:  National Board for Curriculi and Teawher Training ..................   48
Annex 4:  National Assement and Examnions Sevice .......................   50
Annex 5:   Occupational Stadards and Assement Subcomponent .................   55
Annx 6:  Textook Apprva and Selection Mechn   .....59..................    S9
Annex 7:   Secondary Technical/Vocational Training: Backround, Reform St-ateg and
Implementation                                                               ............................................   62
AneS 8:   D iled Cost Tables  ......................................    70
Annex 9:   Summary of Technical Assitance ...............................    85
Anne 10:  Summary of ETteald Traiing................................    90
Annex 11:  Basic Procurement Implementaon Plan..........................   92
Annex 12:  Estimated Disbursement Profe .................................    94
Annex 13:  Bselm            onSchde  ................................    96
ANnex 14:  Sector and Project Monitoring Indicators and Project Monitoring pan  .... ...  100
Annex 15: Suprvion Plan ..................                                               110
Annex. 16:  Bibliography of Materials in Project File ..........................   116
O aniza00nal Chars
Chart 1:    Strucue of Education and Trainn System ........................   112
Chart 2:       nistry of Educaonn ......................................    113
Chart 3:    Projectpl         on .....................................   114
Chart 4:    Component I: Raising Quality of Basic and General
Secondary Eductior................................   115
MAP:        IBRD No. 24949



ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PR'UI:C
Lon land mrolect Summarv
BgELORROW        Romania
DENBX-C      :   Mimistry of Education (MOE)
LOAN AMOUNT: US$50.0 million
TERMS:           Twenty years, including a five-year grace period at the IBRD standard variable
rate
PRM =I           The Project will support the Government's strategy for reform of pre-university
a 3JECIl:        (basic and secondary) education. lhe specific project objectives are to:
(a) update and improve the quality of basic and secondary education by
strengthening curriculum and teacher training, assessment and   a s, and
textbook quality; and (b) develop and introduce measures that will increae
efficiency in management of public resources for education.
PROJEB           The Project will be implemented over five years by the Minisbtry of Education
DESCRPION:   (MOE) in close cooperation with its affiliated Institute for Education Sciences
(IES) and the education inspectorates in the county's 41 judets. The project cost
is estimated at US$62.7 million equivalent base cost, and US$73.5 million total
cost, including contingencies. Ite Project will finance textbooks and
supplementary materials, equipment, computer hardware and software, technical
assistance, exter  and local traiinig, preparation of studies, and non-salary
operating costs. Ihe Project will comprise two main components.
1.      Raising Oualili of Basic -nd Seconda  Educaton. Ths component
will assist reform of the levers of educational change at the national level. It will
reorganize the mechanism for curriculum revision in general education so tiat
teachers, subject matter specialists and curricuium specialists can produce and
validate new cmrricula more efficiently. In teacher training, the component will
provide technical assistance for the restructring of previce programs and
strengthen capacity of in-service training institutions to support the introduction
of new curricula, teaching approaches and related reforms. An assessment and
examinations subcomponent wil revise the two major exmimiDons presently in
use, develop a cadre of professionals in lear-iing assessment, and establish a
National Assessment and Examinations Service. To help ensure that technical and
vocational traiinig are well-founded on knowledge and skills used in the
workplace, promote labor mobility and are comparable to practices in OECD
countries, the project will support the establishment of a Council for QOccuational
Standards and Assessment (COSA) that will adapt standards and skills assessment
tools from other countries. Finally, in conjunction with the approval of new
curricula, textboom will be produced through a mechanism that provides for
competition among publishers and school-based choice of textbook options.



- ii -
11.     Imroving Educaion Finning and Mangemet. The second
componemt w7i introduce mechanisms to increase effciancy in greoug
aloato, nignaggMent and mobilition.  Budget appropriation formulas for pre-
university education will be revised, and the  penditu    authority of
inspectorates and schools will be incased. The incpectorate staff in each judet
will be trained and equipped to strengthen their financial analysis and
management. Resource ceaters for education managers will be developed at the
regional level in existing institutions. A school monitoring system will be
introduced to improve data collection and analysis for feedback to schools and as
an input to policy-making. Feasibility studies wfll be carried out to formdate
new policies on resource mobilization and cost recovery in education. This
component will also provide support to the MOE Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) in developing its capacity for reform coordination and pro
management.
BENEF:           The Project is expected to yield the following major benefits: (a) reformed
institutional structures and processes that can contribute to ongoing improvement
and change in education, specifically: vi) more reliable and valid school-eaving
examinations, student selection mechanisms, and occupational certification
delivered in a manner that offers a fair chance to all candidates and inreases
public accountability in education; CH) greater diversity, durability and higher
quality of textbooks in all schools throughout the country; and (ji) open
competition in the private sector for publishing, printing and distnbution of
textbooks; and (b) more rational allocation and use of scarce fiscal resources for
education and greater transparency, equity and incentives for efficiency in
budgeting mechanisms for schools.
RISKS:           The major risks to project implementation and success are: (a) the weak
insti,utional capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE) to implement highly
interdependent reform components in an efficient and well-integrated manner;
(b) fisca. tightening beyond that contemplated in the Stand-By
AgreementtSystemic Transformation Facility now being finalized and/or
unanticipated price increases that could lead to furfther deterioration in resources
for education; and (c) resistance to change at the national and lo^al level if the
rationale, programs and process of educational reform are not based on broad
participatory :avolvement, openly communicaed nd impiemented in a
transparent manner. To help mitigate risks of institutional capacity, extensive
long-term technical assistance will be provided to assist the PCU and key
implementing units. TA contracts will be packaged across subcomponents
wherever possible to help ensure coordination of effort. Actual and projected
counterpart funding expenditures under the project will be carefully monitored
and reviewed reguarly with MOE and the Ministry of Finance (MOP).
Governing institutions and decision-makng processes for the various reform
initiatives are constituted so as to increase accountability to the public.
Dissemination of information throughout the school system and more publicly
will feature in all components.



M                             Lml   Fsriua    mliiii
Estimate Proiec Costs M                                  na    Ford=n         1
-   US$ Million-
1. Raising Onalib of Basic and
Secondr Educto
A. Curriculum Developmet                                   1.4       1.4       2.8
B. Teacher Training                                        1.2       4.2       5.4
C. Assessment and Examinatons                              3.1       3.1       6.2
D. Occupational Standards and Assement                     1.0       1.0       2.0
E. Textbooks                                             12m        1S8 
Sub-total                                   30.2      25.5      55.7
H. Jmoing Edcation Finag andcingd Man  Lm
A. Resource Allocation, Management
and Mobilization                                      2.5       2.8       5.3
B. Reform Coordination ad Implementation                   u         1I        LX
Sub-total                                    3.0       3.9       6.9
Total Base Costs                            33.2      29.4      a2.7
Physical Contingencies                                   2.6       2.5       5.1
Price Contingencies                                      3.2       2.5       5.7
Total Project Costs                                                 2 
lqnuand
Govenment of Romania                                     14.6      8.9      23.5 t
World Bank                                              24.5      25.5      50.0
Trotal FI;nandng Requrments                 39.1      34.4      73.5
Estimated Disbursements I (US$ million)
I,BRD PEM  Em  EM E9  EM F                                                      Y20
Annual                                   0.2    1.5    7.0   13.5   18.5   9.3
Cumulative                               0.2    1.7     8.7   22.2   40.7  50.0
Cumulative as % of total                 0      3       17     44     81   100
1/ Figures may ay tot exy du4 to oWing.
y/ Incding duties an taxe of USSOL mullion equivat
2I Amum projec effectivene by thid qustr Y9.



El)UCATION RE FItM  RlC
I.  CKGROUND AND RATIONALE
- A. C             Cofted
1.1       QuM  and Sectr Com.' Vitl to Romania's transition is an education system tbat
prepar  youth for a dynamic labor market and a more open and democratic society. As in other
post-sociaist countries now several years into the reform process, the transition in Romania is
proving more difficult than first thought From 1989 through 1993, the country's economic output
fell by 30 percent, with industdal output down 50 percent. Unemployment has risen to 10 percent of
the labor force (anuary 1994). One factor in these difficulties is the inheritance of an education
system that cultivated skills, knowledge and values for fumctioning in a centrally plamied economy
and under Ceausesc's totalitarian regime. Sustning the delivery of education and other basic social
services 8aing the tansition-and within tight fiscal constraints-i important but not sufficient. If
Romania is to restore econc-'ic growth and achieve competiiveness in international markets, it is
e athat is education system be snhened to improve the revance of siat is leaned to what
is required in Roman's new market-oriented economy and to introduce management of education
that reflects RomaiaWs move to more democratic and decentralized govert^ae.
1.2      Reforming education to support the transition is a major task. With a population of 23
milion, Romania is the second largest country in Central and Southern Europe. It is also the second
poorest, with a GDP per capita of US$1080 (World Bank Atlas Metodology, 1992). As elsewhere
in the region, Romaia's once enviable education system was configured by several decades of cena
planning to train most youth, beging at age 14115, in narrow technical areas and to 'supply' labor
through schools linked to local state-owned enterprises and farms. Chronic undeinvestment fiuter
eroded the education system. Low levels of spenig, combined with extreme ideological rigidity and
isolation during the previous regime, have left Romania with: (i) a school system that is severely
lacidng in up-to-date resource materials and equipment for teaching; (i) teachers, researchers and
education policymakers who have long been out of conact with professional developments in OECD
countries; (iii) school infnistrcture that is in many amses dysfunctional; and (iv) governace structures
from the past which consain innovation, efficiency, and local and private initiatives in education.
1.3      Renewing the counrSy's human resources has beer a stated priority since Romania's
resumption of borrowing from the World Bank in 1990. The successor government which received
the first Bank mission following the fall of Ceausescu emphasized the rehabilitation of social services.
A broad review of human reources was undertaken along with the 1991 country economic
memorandum.2 Romania's first loan from the Bank after 1990, for technical assistance and critical
imports, included support to strengthen the Government's adminstatve capacity to respond to
A Couty Astanoc Staty (CAS) is being piuetd to dho Boad with the proposed Romania Petolum Sct
R _WM P-c"
See Romank-Muman Resouaco and hToransi  to a MUs  Eonomw, A World Bok Caunuy Study, ISBN 04213-
2084X, 1992.



-2 -
unemployment.3 Tnis was quickly followed by a loan for emergency assistance to the health system.'
Policies to Increase the effectiveness and affordability of cash entitlement programs featured
prominently in the Structural Adjustment Loan.5
1.4       The proposed operation will initiate Bank support to Romania's education and training
sector, focusing on reforms in basic and secondary education that wil ultimately increase school-
leavers' employability and general preparation for further study and on-the-job training. Development
of this operation is linked with a proposed Employment and Social Protection Project (appraised in
July 1993), which aims to support complementary reform and investment in adult training,
employment services, and social protection.
B. Education and TraLnin, Sector
(See Annex 2 for more detailed sector background.)
1.5       Strur. Basic education in Romania is compulsory through grade 8 and is structured
into pre-school (ages 3-6n). primary (grades 1-4), and gymnasium (grades 5-8). Secondary level
schooling, for youth ages 14-18, is diversified, comprising: (a) four-year acadmic high schools;
0b) technical high schools offerik g four-year day and five-year evening programs; and (c) two- and
three-year vocational schools attached to enterprises and vocational programs attached to
cooperatives." Higher education is provided through 48 public universities, polytechnics and
institutes, as well as an estimatted 66 private universities, with enrollments of about 120,000, which
have sprung up since 1989. Two-year industria foremen's (technicians') programs and evening
courSeS for adults are offered at the campuses of technical high schools (See also Chart 1).
1.6       Enrollments. Total enrollment in education In 1992/93 was about 4.7 million and
declining from previous years. The proportion by subsector is 16 percent in pre-school, 55 percent in
primary ana gymnasia, 22 percent in secondary schools, and 7 percent in higher education.
Enrollment in secondary education in 1992/93 comprised 24 percent in academic high schools (an
increase of about 20 percent over the final years of the Ceausescu regime), 44 percent in technical
high schools and 32 percent in vocational schools. Total enrollments are decreasing slightly as a
result of the decline in Romnia's birth rate since the mid-1980s. This trend can be expected to
continue with the more open fmily plnning services since 1989 and with economic recession. The
cohort entering first grade of primary school in 1997 is projected to be 8 percent smaller than the
cohort in 1992.
5   Technical A an  and Cticul Impoits Prject, Loan No. 3363-RO, US$180 million.
4   Health Rbehab;l;on Prqject, Loan No. 3409RO, US$150 million.
5    9al Adjustmen Loan, Loan No. 3481-RO, US$400 million.
Technical, vocationl nd, in some cae, academic pgrems ae usualy delivered in a common campus known as a
groq sdar. Each cmus specializes in one or two technical ames, such as text manufactuing or chemical
indusby. which refect the predonant local employer and lgest satowned eatep  and kro Inown as the school's
zpso>e".



-3-
1.7       Basdicators. Romania's education system has been strong in several respects.'
Repetition rates appear to have been low for at least a generaion, with a reported 95-99 percent of
students In all grades of primary and secondary school in that grade for the first time. Dropout has
been reported as low in official statistics for many years, although tere have been declining
enrollments at the secondary level in recent years. Participation and access, aw reflected in gross
enrollment ratios, have been high at the primary and secondary levels. Participation in higher
education, however, has been low in Romania at about 10 percent of the age cohort, compared with
an average of about 30 percent in OECD countries and 15 to 20 percent in Poland and Hungary
(1989). This is a legacy of the Ceausescu years, during which youth vocational training was
emphasized to an extreme. By 1989 only about 4 percent of secondary school-age students were
enrolled in general secondary education programs, compared with 20 to 25 percent In Poland and
Hungary. The majority of students were in technical or vocational programs which were expected to
lead directly to specific jobs in a given enterprise or industry. Data are not yet available on the
educational attainment of the population, and the educational research community in Romania has
been working openly only since 1990. It is therefore difficult to generalize on student achievement,
the effectiveness of Romania's education system, and the relative effectiveness of its constituent parts.
1.8       Teachers  The appropriate size, structure and preparation of Romania's teaching force are
major sectoral policy concerns. Declining enrollmen is requiring more carefil management of intake
to teacher training and of hiring in the sector. Student:teacher ratios at various 'evels of education are
already low by international norms, particularly so in gymnasium and in higher education. Low
ratios stem from low coefficients of weekly teaching hours, the practice of single subject teaching,
and a lack of incentives at the local level for efficient staffing. Structures for teacher preparation are
being rethought. Pre-service training currently takes place in pedagogical high schools for primary
school teachers, an approach that has been abandoned in most OECD countries in favor of preparation
at the tertiary level. Teachers of secondary academic or technical theory subjects attend university
programs with all other students for four years, followed by an additional year to study pedagogy, in
theory more than in practice. Teachers of 'practical* classes in technicallvocational programs are
usually technicians without higher education degrees or pr dagogical raining. Teachers' salaries are
about 15 percent lower than the average for industry. Since 1989, teachers' unions have played an
increasing role in negotiat g their conditions of service and publicizin broader concerns about
education policy.
1.9       Management. Romania's education system is the most highly centralized in Central and
Eastern Europe. The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for maiaging pre-school, primary
and secondary schools, and higher education. It prescribes all school curriculum, as well .3s an
entrance examination for secondary school and the Bacalaureate examination taken at the end of
four-year high school progr-ms. Nearly all school textbooks are produced through a state-owned and
subsidized publisher, Editura Ddactica si Pedagogica (EDP), which is under MOE." The central
7   The qualty of atiics on education before 1989 is open to queslion. New data colleion ystems are being developed.
h state monpoly of textbook provsion was typical of cenally planmd economies. here is no OECD country in
which the state designs, manufactures and distabutes all textbooks through state institution. he role of the stat is
generally limited to setting cuicular stas and textbook guielines whi pivat publisWs mnay utilizO in
competition for public purhasing.



-4 -
budget is the source of fmancing for all but a small portion of education expenditures.' in each judet,
there is an education inspectorate, which is essentially a deconcentrated unit of the MOE with
responsibility for administering budgetary funds. There is virally no local financing of schools and.
no legal or regulatory provision for rrivate schools. Linked to each inspectorate is a Casa
Personaludid Didactic (CPD) or Teachers' Center.'° Schools themselves are managed by headmasters
whose appointments are approved by the judet inspectorates and MOE. The Insitute for Education
Sciences (IES) was reestablished in 1990 to provide professional and technical support to MOE
policymakers.
1.10       Expenditure  As a percentage of GDP, Romania's spending on education-at about 3.9
percent of GDP in 1992-is low by most intenational comparisons." Tbis level reflects an increased
priority over pre-1989 levels (average total yearly spending from 1985-1989 was 2.4 percent of
GDP), although in real terms expenditure has been declining. Expenditre per pupil in basic and
secondary education, averaged about US$105 equivalent in 1992. Average expenditure varies among
judets for reaswns that are not transparent in the budget process. Government expenditure on
education during 1991 represented about 15 percent of the central government budget and declined to
about 13 percent in 1992. Of the total MOE budget, all&ut 75 percent is for salaries, with the
remainder mainly for operating expenses and core textbooks. MOE estimates it will spend about I
percent or approximately US$4.6 million equivalent Gust over US$1 per student) in 1993 for
textbooks. As in past years, capital repairs and Investment in school buildings are very limited,
representing only about 5 percent of tota education expenditures for 1993.
C. Kay Isues
1.11       Romania has sustained a well-developed structure for delivering education and shares
positive daracteristics of education in OECD countries (e.g., high participation rates and low
repetition rates in basic eduwtion, strong teacher training in subject matter, structure for teacher
cerification). Yet, the system does not reflect major lessons and directions of education elsewhere.
Experience has shown that a strong general preparation of students is a far more cost-effective public
investment than early vocational training. In OECD countries, curriculum and teaching approaches
aim increasingly at developing a student's cognitive abilities and problem-solving, rather than rote
A kt prst, local goverments We no respo_nbty for finang eaion, adthough their So i under discussin i
the brader con of lcd govenment reform. Pants fnme pat o. prehool cost, copy bools durig prmy
and seconday education and, in some cases, conoibut casb or ianind suppopt for school initives suh as studt
trp, acadic prizes, or purchase of school equint or aemety textb. Many fmie alsoo pay suti
houdy fees for priva  utong tonce studns' compettvs in exmitui.
1    In the past, CPDs were bases for propaganda and indoctination of school staff. Since 990, the CPDs have been used
increasiny to support pofasional devlopment of teche, to failita educadonal rsach, and to &-rw wider
culburl and continuing education functions in the comnuny. lhis exteve netwok of isition ii an umual
feaur and asset of Romania's education system.
Whilo comparisons between counies of varyig incom levels must be drawa with care, it u illhuive to note that
total spending on education as a percentage of GDP aveaged 5.7% in OECD coutries in 1988. In other CEE
couies, spening was 3.8% of GDP in Poland (1991), 5.3% in the foue Czech and Slovak Pedal Republi (1988),
and 5A% in ungy (1988). Expedrs in Algeria and Malaysia, which am rougly comparabl to Romaia in toal
populaion and io_ per capita, range frm 7-9% of GDP.



mastery of factual material, w)lch remains central to schooling in Romania. National examinations
are used primarily as a selection mechanism In Romania. In other countries, testing is regarded as an
important tnol for assessing or certifying education and training outcomes, monitoring school
performance, ensuring accountability to the public, and supporting educational change. Decision-
making in Romania's education system is highly centralized, whereas in other countries, school-based
professionalism and flexibility in resouree management have proven more conducive to effective
schools. Issues central to reform of education in Romania are elaborated below.
1.12     Curiculum. Isolation and past ideology have left widespread need for updating
traditional disciplines and incorporating new approaches to curriculum development. Existing
curriculum in general subjects is defined mainly in terms of encyclopedic, factual information to be
acquired in specific subjects. Teaching programs do not incorporate broader social, cognitive, or
learning process objectives that should be. attainable by the majority of students. There has been
substantial technical work by the Institute for Education Sciences (IES) since 1990 to redefine
"content" of teaching programs in general education and to reshape learning objectives at all levels of
basic and general secondary education, but the curriculum reform lacks an effective decision-making
process to validate new curricula for adoption system-wide.Y Ihere has been little progress on
restructuring curriculum for technical/vocational education, due to lack of experience in Romania with
curriculum based on systematic analysis of tasks common to broad occupational groupings.
Restructuring is also slowed by the fact that specialized training is strongly embedded in secondary
schools, and effective alternative systems do not exist for providing speciized occupational training
at the post-secondary level.
1.13      Appoc to Teaching and Learing. Teaching in Romania is characterized as "directive"
or "frontal", with the teacher as the center of activity and the teaching program as the definitive
content. It is unusual for students to work on their own tasks at their own pace or to work in groups.
Lecture and rote learning predominate; there is little attention to methodology that will encourage
pracal problem-solving, student initiative, and learning that incorporates more than one subject
aeea. Both pre- and in-service teacher training, especially at secondary level, concentae on
developing knowledge of subject matter. This is an imporant strength of the Romanian system which
should be retained. There has been relatively less attention to pedagogy and teaching practice in
teacher training programs, but measures have recently been taken to increase this component of
teacher training. Romanian education speciaists are gaining exposure to methodologies used in other
countries, but actual change in the classroom has been slow to develop and is mainly limited to pilot
schools.
1.14      Student Selection and Learning Assessn xt aminations in Romania, as elsewhere,
drive what is taught in schools and to a large extent determine a child's opportunity for further
education and employment. Yet, the instruments now used in Romania are poor tools for selection
and do not provide a useful basis for assessing learning outcomes in relation to national objectives of
the education system. Testing and scoring are not developed to modern standards. Delivery of
handwritten or oral examinations creates uneven testing conditions for candidates. Students placed
through examination in a vocational program have little opporunity later on to move among
specialties or into technical or academic programs as interests or abilities develop. Tnere also appears
'Updatig hm cvered lngages, matha, raftwu sencs, hitr a th art. New cuc  an bein deveop
fors aNW technol d duat.



to be gender-typing of technical specialties which may discourage both girls and boys from matching
study programs with interests, aptitudes and employment potential. The rigid selection and very
limited places for students in academic high schools reinforce a school culture in which the 'best' or
advantaged students are singled out early, and expectations and opportnities of other students are
lowered. As responsibility for career choices shifts increasingly from the state to the individual,
adjustnents will need to be made in the public accountability of examinations and student selection
mechanisms. Career counseling will also be needed to assist students in educational and career
choices.
1.15       Provision of Bsic Textbooks  The already difficult conditions of the 1980s appear to be
worsening since 1989. Basic textbook provision appears to be falling far short of requirements,
especially in rural areas. In the 199111992 school year -he State Textbook Publishing House (EDP)
produced approximately 22 million new school textbook,, the maximum that could be produced with
the budget allocation.1 Shortages have been exacerbated by ineffective distribution. EDP has been
able to produce very few new, updated textbooks within its current level of resources, pardy due to
inflationary pressure on the education budget, which constrains increases in expendiure on non-salary
items, and from substantial increases in production and raw materia costs, particularly paper. To
cope with the shortage, teachers recite from couse syllabi for students to transfer to their copy books;
some teachers are developing their own materials, often at personal expense as there are no budgets
for such initiatives. Private publishers and booksellers have mushroomed in Romania since 1989 .1
Participation of the private sector in educational publishing is severely constrained, however, by
subsidies provided to the state producer.
1.16         elene of Voational Taining. The unemployment that is accompanying economic
restucuring has revealed the limited occupational mobility and difficulty in retraining workers
preared through the present secondary school systen. Continuation of the tracking of high mumbers
of youth at age 14115 into Romaia's present strucue of technical/vocational training will exarbate
unemployment among graduates and may be leading to a serious secondary school dropout problem.15
Perpeutng the system could also contribute to requirements for cosdy adult education and retraining
as shifts occur in the structure of the economy and as technology advances.16 For the market
economy, a strong general preparation will need to be emphasized as a foundation for furtier
It w  assumd that an addiin  12 nmion textboob were  usod fin previou yeam, but the  has been no sysematc
ovaeioa as to whethe this arnaenent has met ascud rquirents.
1     It s estimded that over a thousand publsher are currenly active in Romania. A few are atemptg to specialze in
eduction matertia.
"     he Gvnmt esdimates that at the cad of dte N999   hoo year, there we approximately I10,000 oscondary
hool gSraduat eing the labor force, of whom about 40,000 wen rgited as unemployed duing 1992. Offiial
da on total enment in aI types of secondaty educaion showed a decline of nearly 314,000 students a23 peret)
between 199091 and 1992Q93.
to   For example in 1991 alnost 50% of pupi eoled itn sconday tenicald hools and 25% of tose enoled in
vocaoal prgrn  we  m macine trade specialt, although job vaca in metl and welding oecupatio
conmrisd only 5% of job vacancy sting in local labor offtces in laaza  1990. The Wold Dank projects that by th
year 2000, the shar of Romais GDP wil be agricult, 20%; _maucturg nWusty, 40%; and services, inclding
conuctio and trade, 40%. For compaisn, the sar hi 1959 wee agricul, 11%; manuacturing industry, 60%;
and sreices, 29%.



- 7 -
specWized study and training and on-the-job skills development. Tle current grouping of more than
130 occupational specialties Ls. secondary schools needs to be reorganized Into about 15-20 broad
*occupational families", as typical in other industrialized market economies. Under pressure from
local authorities, many secondary schools are already attempting to restructure programs, but the
schools and the MOE have almost no experience with alternative approaches to organ zing technical
education. A more systematic approach to restructuring, which preserves local initiative, is required
to address this issue.
1.17     Occupational Standards as a Basis for VWocational Training Curricula. The way in which
vocational training curricula are defined in Romania is outdated. Romania has limited experience
with modern job analysis techniques to produce occupational standards that will serve as a basis for
training curriculum development and assessment of the skills and knowledge of trainees and workers.
In OECD countries, procedures are in place to ensure that occupational standards and vocational
certificates reflect actual work practices, are linked to internationally accepted standards, and have
credibility among employers. Such standards are essential to promote more efficient recruitment of
Romanian workers and to facilitate labor mobility within and outside Romania. Train5ng programs
should prepare candidates to meet those standards, not impose their own standards. Development of
occupational standards could provide a valuable basis for Romania to assess the international
competiveness of its technology, as embodied in the content of occupations. This information could
signal needed areas of improvement and investment in plant and equipment, as well as in human
resources. There is a need to develop a tripartite structure to ensure that the concerned parties
(employers, employees, training institutions) agree on occupationa standards and assessment
techniques, and that standards are regularly updated and linked to international practice.
1.18     Central Financini and Controls. Local and school-level iniiatives and innovation are
stifled by heavy reliance on central govermnent revenues, budget allocation according to rigid norms,
and the highly prescriptive management of schooling. Tbere are few incentives for internal efficiency
(e.g., raising studentteacher ratios, consolidation of schools witiin districts) under the exisng central
budgeting in non-fungible line items. District inspectorates serve mainly as a conduit for funding,
with litte scope in financial management or for using resources to stimulate change and address local
priorities. In turn, it is difficult for headmasters to function as school leaders and managers. Among
consumers of education, there is a strong sense of entidement to "free" education provided by the
state, which poses political obstacles to cost-consciousness, cost-sharing and cost-recovery measures.
'Me highly centralized system absorbs MOE staff resources into overseeing delivery of education and
reacting to crises in day-to-day operation of the system, thus making it difficult to filfill a role of
monitoring and analyzing the sector, strategic planning and broad policy formulation. Clearly, there
is scope in the sector for increasing efficiency and quality through more decentrized education
management and financing.
1.19     Ins_ttional Capaciy  Central government institutions in the sector are hard-pressed to
lead and support educatiorl reform. Romanian professionals in curriculum, learning assessment, and
teacher training are few and have had limited exposure to international debate and current practice in
their fields. Knowledge and Jkills in finance and management are seriously lacking at all levels of
education adminisration and in the entities responsible for textbook production. Sector policy
analysis and research are made difficult by the past neglect of these functions and by lack of reliable
data. Reform is also hindered by vestiges of the past-he culture of central planning, tendencies



-8-
among colleagues to withhold rather than share information, negative images of various sector
institutions and consultative mechanisms, and the long&.^t!nuig role of teachers and students as
follower,s of a central mandate.
D. Govmment Sha
1.20      In 1993, the Goverment released a White Paper on education which acknowledged that
refoms in education, especially at the primary and secondary level, had been largely ad hoc and
margina in impact during the initial years of the transition.17 The new report focused the education
reform effort on three objectives: restructuring, modernizaton and measures to address critical
material shortages in the sector. Key elements of the medium- to long-term strateg include:
(a)    a reorientation of education to 'lifelong learning' and provision of basic, general
education for all pupils up to the age of 16;
(b)   the updating of the content of education (as reflected in curriculum, textbooks and
examinations) and approach to teaching based on knowledge from the cognitive sciences;
(c)   the reorganization of both pre- and in-service teacher education to increase teachers'
understanding of teaching and learning and to support the other elements of the education
reform;
(d)   a restructuring of secondary technical and vocational education that will consolidate
secondary schools under the MOE, eliminate the specialized occupational training, remove
altermative two- and three-year programs from secondary level, and provide a common
core of general training in all secondary schools18;
(e)   the abolition of the state monopoly on textbooks and fostering of a diversity of educational
materias in classrooms, with redirection of the texook subsidy to the school level;
(t)    decentralization of the coordination and administration of the education system through
delegation of authorities to inspectorates, CPDs and schools;
(g)   structural change in higher education that diversifies the types of post-secondary program
offered, reduces emphasis on early specalization, and stengthens foreign language study
and research in higher education;
(h)   accreditation mechmnisms that encompass both private and public education institutions;
and
- lie Refonn of Education in Romania Conditibos and Prospect, Minisy of Educaio and ntlute for Edct
Sci8nces, DBhan 1993.
A shift in this direcon is beginning. The mer of afeondaty schools classified as acadmi,c has been incaisased fomi 95
ntonwide in 1989 to 430 in 1992, ad the number of indu    high schoob has been induced fi=m 642 i 1989 to 448
duing the m peuiod.



-9-
(i)   an increase In the resource base for education In order to improve the conditions of
service for teachers and raise the level of investment and operating expenditures on school
buildings and educational materials. (TOe strategy suggests a target, over the medium to
long term, of raising expenditure on education to more than 7 percent of GDP.)
The formulation of this strategy and Its endorsement by the Council of Ministers represent progress in
building awareness, consensus and commitment to change. Formal policy decisions and institutional
reform to implement the strategy are just now advancing. The MOE is working with the
Parliamentary Commission on Education and Science to draft new legislation on education. As in
other ministries, a Secretary of State for Reform was appointed in MOE to head a department that
will oversee education reform programs (See Chart 2). A National Council on Education Reform,
with broad political representation, has been esftblished to advise and provide feedback to the
Minister of Education.
E. Rationale and Strat  for Bank Involvement
1.21      It is widely acknowledged that the delivery and output of Romania's education system do
not yet reflect the country's new social, political and economic environment. Yet, it is almost
impossible to fnance major reform with the existing resources and eroded investment budget.
Istuions and education professionals in Romania need technical and funding support if the reforms
they envisage-ambitious by any standard-are to succeed. Externa support has so fir been
piecemeal, and the levers of educational change in the school system are mainly in central, public
insftiutions raer than decentalized, autonomous institutions, as is the case in higher education.
Further delay in the updating. reorientation and investment in these lower levels of schooling, from
which the majority of Romanian youth enter directy into the labor market, could well result in higher
thtan necessary unemployment and a consequent fiscal and social burden later on.
1.22      The Bank's relationship with Romania in education has been developing since 1990. After
an initia sector review and formal Government request, project development began in late 1991.19
Resources for technical preparation were mobilized from the Japan Grant Facility, U.K. Know-How
Fund, Britsh Council, EU/PRARE and the Govemments of the Netherlands, France and U.S. Ihese
donors also supported activities, organized by the Bank, that aimed to increase knowledge of
international experience and the capacity of the MOE and IES.2 The proposed Project will continue
to build the capacity of these institutions in the contxt of advancing reform implementation.
1.23      The proposed reform project addresses the national instituions that now control the
delivery of educational services and to a large extent determine quality of learning outcomes. As
these centralized "levers* begin to operate in a less direct and rigid way, possibilities wil increase for
school-based initiative to icrease quality and efficiency and respond to local priorities within a
context of national objectives and stanards for education. The strategy is first to help reform and
t9  Ronania Humer Resorcs and th lnton to a Mkt Econoriw 1992.
°  These aci*ies included visis of Ronia spcalis to OECD counti to sudy apprahes to ogni bs  and
educaton; a fellwip to deveop capay in learing a smat pr to prject iniapmun
extoshnical assistance on textbooks and educaon  mrals; and locd worksops. Severa actvSi wevi
w a  joinly by the MinioEby ofEdu iwMityof Labor and Scil Precton.



- 10-
sgthen the professional capacity of central institions and begin to implement the Govenments
textbook teform. Subsequent Bank operations could expand implemeaon of educational reforms
and finance more district, local or school-based initiaives for quality improvement.
1.24     This operaton has been developed in parallel with an Employment and Social Protection
Ptoject (FY94), which wIll have dosely related components in adult training and in caeer
infomation and counseling. Tne Bank is also working with the MOE and universities, Ministy of
Science and Technology, and Academy of Sciences, to develop a stategy for refrm and investment
in higher education, whose implementation could be supported by furter World Bank financial
assistance to the sector.



- 11 -
H. THE PROJECT
A. frojoc ObjectvsS
2.1       The Project will support the Goverment's strategy for reform of pre-university (basic
and secondary) education. The specific Project objectives are to: (a) update and improve the quality
of basic and secondary education by strengthening curriculum and teacher training, assessment and
examinations, and textbook quality; and (b) develop and introduce measures that will increase
efficiency in management of public resources for education. Project objectives will be achieved by
strengtening capability, efficiency and public accountability of national institutions and by fostering
change at the school level. To the extent possible, the Project wMI build upon existing instutions,
the many positive features of the present system, and the strong educational tradition in Romania.
B. froect esciptio
2.2      The Education Reform Prolect, comprising two components, will be implemented over
five years by the Mimistry of Education (MOE) in close cooperation with its affiliated Institute for
Education Sciences (IES) and the education inspectorates in the country's 41 judets. Project cost is
estimated at US$62.7 million equfivalent base cost, and US$73.5 million including contingencies. The
Project will finance textbooks and supplementary materals, equipment, computer hardware and
software, technical assistance, eternal and local training, preparation of studies, and non-salary
operating costs. The Project components are structured as follows:
L.    Raising Quality of Basic and Secondary Educton
A. Curriculum Development
B. Teacher Training
C. Assessment and Examinations
D. Occupational Standards and Assessment
E. Textbooks
H.   Improving Education Finance and Management
A. Resource Allocation, Management and Mobilization
B. Reform Coordination and Implementation
2.3       Paralll Eojet in Seconaa TechnicalV ona Educion. Development of the
proposed Bank-financed project included technical preparation and appraisa of a component for
restructring secondary vocational education. This component was designed to advance curriculum
development of secondary technical education programs and their implementation in pilot schools
dtroughout the country. At the time of loan negotiations in December 1993, the Commission of the
European Union and the Romania Department of European Integration indicated that this component
would be financed by parallel EUIPHARE gra  funding of approximately ECU 25 million. TIis
parallel project, which complements the reforms under the Bank-financed components, is descnrbed in
Annex 7.



- 12 -
Component I:  Raising Ouaaii¢ of Basic and Secondarv Education 21
2.4       The objective of this component is to assist the Government in implementing reform in the
four interrelated areas of curriculum, teacher training, assessment, and textbook provision for basic
and general secondary education.
2.5       Curriculum Development (US$2.8 million). This subcomponent will assist in preparation,
validation and implementation of new curriculum programs for grades 1 through 12. The Minister of
Education will establish the National Board for Curriculum and Teacher Training (CTB), compesed of
qualified educators who will organize and oversee preparation of new curricula (See also Annex 3 and
Chart 4). Most of the work will be accomplished by working groups of senior subject specialists and
t3achers, with curriculum specialists from the IES, the Project providing only modest technical
assistance to complement these efforts. The new curricula will be forwarded to the Minister of
Education fo; authorization to implement the curriculum throughout the education system. Curricula
will be published and implemented under the supervision of the Department of Pre-University
Education through inspectors, teachers, and teacher trainers in the Teachers Centers (CPDs). The
MOE is establishing a Service for Curriculum and Teacher Training Preparation (SIC) that will
provide administrative support to the CIB. By the end of the Project, programs for an estimated 66
grade-subject matter areas will be developed.
2.6       The Project will provide technical assistance (2 staff months foreign), local training,
overseas training and study visits (14 staff months), per diem and travel costs of subject specialists,
printing and distribution of new curricula, and basic office and communications equipment for the SIC
and working groups.
2.7       Teacher Training (US$5.4 million). This subcomponent will: (a) support detailed
planning of the restructuring of pre-service teacher training; and (b) develop the capacity of the CPDs
to deliver in-service training support to teachers in the introduction of new curriculum, assessment
and textbooks. The MOE Department of Pre-University Education will prepare action plans for
implementing the shift in pre-service training of primary school teachers from pedagogical high
schools to the university level, and for reorganizing and better coordinating the secondary teacher
training system. For in-service training, the subcomponent will strengthen the national network of
CPDs, concentrating resources in the CPDs of major regional centers-Bucharest, Brasov, Cluj,
Craiova, lasi, and Timisoara (See Map). These CPDs will become educational centers for initial
orientation in the new curricula and other educational change initiatives under the Project.
Development of in-service programs will emphasize training that is organized to meet the needs of the
teachers, varied and flexible so that teachers may make choices, and decentralized to reflect diffeent
regional situations. The design of new programs wil be developed as an integral part of the
curriculum development effort (para. 2.5).
2.8       Also included in this subcomponent is modest financing for an ongoing project of the IES
that is assisting a network of ten pilot schools to introduce new uses of computers in the classroom.
This initiative is also being supported by the Soros Foundation and UNESCO.
2i  Estim   prje aft In d. chapter an prvided wiou physis or pre contigence



- 13 -
2.9       The Project will provide technical assistance for restructuring and program design (48
staff months foreign and 172 months local), fellowships abroad (74 staff months), seminars and local
training, and equipment and materials for the CPDs, their associated trial schools and the IES.
2.10      Assessment and Examinations (USS6.2 million). Measures to improve the quality of
educational assessment and examinations will help drive the introduction of new curriculum and
provide better information about quality of learning outcomes in Romania's increasingly diversified
education system. A National Assessment and Examinations Board (NAEB) is being set up to guide
and coordinate four specialist Assessment Working Groups that will work closely with parallel groups
in curriculum development, teacher training, and textbooks to develop examination syllabi, sample
question papers, and teachers" guides. Immediate support will be provided to a transitional
Assessment Unit to improve the physical quality of examination documents. Professional capacity in
assessment will be developed gradually during the Project from within the IES, with the objective of
creating a semi-autonomous service with its own budget, Director, trained technical and professional
staff, premises and equipment. The aim is for this National Assessment and Examinations Service
(NAES) to be fully operational by 1997 (see also Annex 4). The NAEB could have a continuing role
as the goveming board of the NAES. By the end of the Project, national standards and performance
criteria will be agreed for each of the main curriculum subjects in basic and general secondary
education, and teachers will have support materials on the new assessment programs and packages.
(Assessment in technical/vocational programs is addressed in Component I.D., paras. 2.13-2.16)
2.11      This subcomponent will also earmark funding to help ensure Romania's participation in
international assessments of education.
2.12      The Project will provide technical assistance (46 staff months foreign and about 215 staff
monts local), local training, overseas training and study visits (83 months), printed materials,
rehabilitation of facilities for the NAES, school and office equipment, and computer hardware and
software.
2.13        pational Standards and Assessment (US$2.0 million). To help ensure that curricula
and testing in youth, adult and enterprise-based training programs are well-founded on knowledge and
skills used in the workplace and comparable to practices in most OECD countries, this subcomponent
will define and update occupational standards and certification practices. A Council for Occupational
Standards and Assessment (COSA) will be established. COSA will be a standing tripartite body of
representatives of employers, employees and relevant goverment agencies. Under COSA will be a
Research and Technical Services Unit (RTSU) of about 12 professionals to guide the development of
occupationalrjob standards and assessment materials. These resources will be made available to
Romanian employers, employment and training agencies, schools and universities, and unions as tools
for increasing the quality of training programs, worker productivity, and worker mobility both within
and outside Romania.
2.14      COSA will define the general policies and work program to guide development of
occupational/job standards and  asment products, including the development of cognitive and
performance test item data banks. A documentation and records center will be developed to obtain,
store, and disseminate occupational standards and assessment materials. This center will house an
automated database to access materials on international standards and assessment tools, act as a
repository of materials, and maintain records on occupational certificates issued by COSA. Detailed
procedures will be developed for RTSU staff to use in ensuring the quality of occupational and



- 14-
assessment products. Training mateials will be developed to use with the teams that will be witg
and revewing the standards, and In orienting COSA members and others to the availabilty and use of
the standards In developing curriculum, assessment, and cerdficadton programs. The Project will
prde for the development and use of occupadonal standards and asssment products in about 300
occupations. The Project will also establish a network of local consultani who will be available to
assist and cetify local agencies that wish to develop written and pefmance tests from the test item
data bait"'. This  Ubcompnonet is exected to provide an Important underpinning for cumculum
development in the parallel project in secondary technical/vocational education (see. para 2.3), as well
as adult training efforts under the proposed Employment and SocW Protection Project.
2.15      The Project wfll fnance tehical assistance (24 months foreign and 1,180 months local)
to assist with development and il_ryleme-taton of COSA and Its staff, short-erm fellowships for key
COSA members and staff (18 months), local taining, financing for direct costs (e.g., travel and per
diem) for writing and review teams, equipment and materias for the COSA staff unit.
2.16      A condition of disbursement for thIs subcomponent is the tabshent (throug  the
signing of a protocol) of the Council on Occupational Standards and Assessment.
2.17      Texoo  (USS39,3 nili. This sbcomponent will provide a diversity of upgraded
texbooks which meet the new curriculum requirements. It will use the transfer of the textbook
subsidy from the producer to the schol level to engage publishers in the competition to develop new
tetooks. Implemenion will be overseen by a semi-autonomous Textbook Approval Board (AB)
(See also Anmex 6). Requests for submissions of proposals from publishers will be adverdsed
mnually. Proposals will be submitted in accordance with an agreed set of technical regulations,
quality crieria, and price range. The TAB will be established with up to 12 subject panels which wil
assess the proposas in relation to the crkeria. The new mechanism for textbook provision wil be
introduced gradualy, coverig five primary school textbook tites in the fis year and increasing up
to 100 titles in the fial yes of the Project.
2.18      Publishers whose proposals are approved could apply for training in publishing
management and will be eligible for grants (up to $10,000 per tide) toward the costs of developing
their proposals up to pre-press stage. The approved textbooks wil be exhibited by the publishers for
eight weeks each year (October to December) at the CPD in each judet. Schools wiU then choose and
order tides from the publisher, through the local inspectorates, under a system in which budgetay
ceilings for individua schools are calculated on a student per capita basis for the selection and
purchase of textbooks. Publishers wMI be responsible for collecting and aggregating the schools'
textbook orders and submitting the aegated orders to the MOE. The MOE will enter into
conracts with publishers for the agreed total quantities for all textbooks to be produced for that
sdcool year.
2.19      A total of about 250 titles (equivaent to about half the nmmber of titles presently used in
sdcools) wDI be proided under the Project, with an estmatd 20 million twtbooks distbuted to the
schools. Ihe Project will careiully evaluate the inkiial e ience to aid decision-making and planni
for sbifting all textbook provision to the new mehanism.



- 15-
2.20      The Project will finance technical assistance to the Board (66 months foreign and 90
months local); local training; overseas study visits (4 staff months); costs of administrative support to
the Board and subject panels; costs of developing approved book proposals for exhibition; and
allocations to schools for textbook orders.
2.21      Assurances were provided by the Government at negotiations that the development of
upgraded textbooks wili not be contracted to any pubishers which are beneficiaries of budgetary
subsidies.
Component II: Improving Educatfon Financing and Man3gement
2.22      The objectives of this component are to: (a) introduce a revised budget appropriation
formula in budgeting for pre-university education; (b) strengthen finaial. management and planning
capacity through training and equipment upgrading in educational institutions at the national, judet and
school level; (c) carry out feasibility studies that will result in policies for diversifying the sources of
financing for education; and (d) establish the Reform Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
2.23      Resource Allocation. Management and Mobilization (USS5.3 million). The Project will
help the MOE and MOF to introduce measures and encourage behavior that wIll increase efficiency in
use of education resources, devolve autonomy in resource management, and diversify sources of
financing for education. Appropriation formulas, adapted during the first year of the project from
examples used in other OECD countries, will be introduced for the primary and secondary schools.
Expendiure authority and flexibility to shift resources among budget categories will be increasingly
devolved to schools and universites. In parallel with the changes in resource allocation, school
inspectorates and local adminsttive staff will be provided with training, basic equipment and
software to improve capability in financial analysis and to increase awareness of cost-effectiveness and
stategies for better utilization of staff, physical and financial resources. School headmasters will also
receive orientation training in these areas.
2.24      To improve the information base for decision-making in the sector, the systems and
categories for collecting data on schools will be revised, and a school monitoring and performance
improvement system will be introduced. Regional education resource centers will be established at
the CPDs in five major cities to provide materials and other support to inspectorate staff and
headmasters within their regions.
2.25      Studies, local workshops and pilot tris will be carried out to assist formulation of new
policies for resource mobilization in education. These actiities will be undertaken mainly by
Romanian researchers with limited foreign technical assismce. Technical and program support will
be provided for the ongoing policy research of IES on decentralization and management in education.
Other activities will focus on feasibility of earmarked local education levies, user fees (especially for
school-owned textbooks), student loan and scholarship programs, and the role of enterprises in
financing education.
2.26      'he Project will finance technical assistance (25 months foreign and 430 months local),
extenal training (15 monfts), local training, computer hardware and software, and direct costs of
policy research.



- 16-
2.27      Reform  .a inatton and lXlmenion flSSl.6            Assistance will be provided
to the PCU and key implementing departments of MOE and IES in the planning and management of
project activities, procurement, project accounts and auditing, comnication and disemination, and
monitoring and evaluation. Slccess of the education reform will depend heavily on coordination,
efficient and efecve adminon, information-sharing amon Iementing units md public
inforation (e.g., comm   on between MOE/IES and teaches, teacher union represetves,
parents, local authorities, Parliamenarian, employers, publishers, the media and other stakeholders)
on the changes and opporuites being introduced. A steering committee and reform project
coordination unit (PCU) are being established under the Secretary of State for Reform in the MOE to
coordinate overall project implementation, and monitor activites to ensure that the project objective-
and agreed policy measues are attned. 'le daRy, detailed implementation of components of the
project wM be the responsibilty of each concemed MOE depatment or agency. It is expected that
the PCU wfll coordinate other eternal financing, in addition to that of the Bank, that is being
directed to education reform efforts.
2.28      The Project will finance tedhnical assistance (43 months foreign), basic office m4uipment
and vehicles for the PCU.
2.29      Fatabllshment of a fully functioning PCU with staff and other resources satisfactory
to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness.
C. EnimenW hnga
2.30      The Project has been classified as C: No appreciable enviromental impact". There will
be adequate coverage, however, of environmental issues and inmatdon in the revised curricula for
both gener and vocadonal subjects, in development and review of new textbooks, and in the
selection of suplementay materas for teacher taining Isuios.



- 17 -
m. PROJECr COSIS FINANCINIG ANDIPEETlO
A. Project Costs
3.1        Summary of Project Costs. Total Project cost is estimated at USS73.5 million, including
contingencies amounting to US$10.8 million or 17 percent of total base cost (US$62.7 million). The
project cost includes the rehabilitation of facilities, furiture, equipment and materials, vehicles,
technical assistance, training . ad incremental operating costs for the Project. Taxes and duties
amount to US$0.2 million. The estimated Project costs1, detailed in Annex 8, are summarized below:
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMARY BY COMPONENT
_   (Le Miln         S M
Lcal  Foeign Tota  Local Foreign Total
1. RAISING QUALrrY OF BASIC AMnD
SECONDARY EDUCATION
A. Curuicuiun Developent                  1,826  1,940   3,766   1.4   1.4   2.8
B. Teawher Trdimg                         1,609  5,736   7,346   1.2   42    5.4
C. Asessmnt and Examinaton               4242  4,072   8,314   3.1   3.1   6.2
D. Ocupatonal Stndalds & Asoniat          1,351  1,345   2,696   1.0   1.0   2.0
S. Textbooks                             31,781 21,329  53,110  23.5  15.8  39.3
Subtotal                        40,809 34,423  75,231  30.2  25.5  55.7
U. IMPROVING EDUCATION FINANCING
AND MANAGEMENT
A. Remm. Alocaton, Mangement
and Mobization                        3,354  3,797   7,151   2.5   2.8   5.3
B. Coordinatio and himeomention            713  1,507   2,221   0.5   1.1   1.6
Subtol                           4,067  5,304   9,371   3.0   3.9   6.9
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                      44,876 39,727  84,603  33.2  29.4  62.7
Physied Contingenics                     3,562  3,366   6,928   2.6   2.5   5.1
Prie Contingncies                        4,321  3,343   7,m     3.2   2.5   5.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       52,759 46,435  99,194  39.1  344   73.5
3.2        Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs have been estimated on the following basis:
(a)     Base Costs  All project costs have been estimated in US dollars because inflation of the
Lei over the life of the project is difficult to predict. Costs shown in Lei are the result of
converting dollar estimates at the rate of 1350 Lei/US$1.00 (January 1994). Technical
assistance costs (about 12 percent of total project cost) are based on recent cost estimates
for comparable technical assistance in other Bank-financed projects in Romania, i.e.,:
(a) foreign consultants at US$15,000 per month; and (b) local consultants at US$400 per
month. Monthly estimates for eternal and local training are US$6,000 and US$160,
respectively. Price estimates for consumable and durable goods are based on lists of



- 18-
requirements prepared for each project component. Building refrbishment and fulrniture
costs are based on estimates obtained from local officials.
Ob)    Contingen  Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical variations (US$5.1 million), equal to 5 percent of the estimated base cost of
teebical assistance and training, and 10 percent for all other project items. In the
absence of forecasts for anmual local price escalation and excange rates, price increases
have boen applied to both local and foreign costs in US dollar terms at the following
rates: 1994 - 1.9 percent; 1995 - 2.7 percent; 1996 - 3.4 percent; 1997 and 1998 - 3.6
pernt Estmated price contingencies total US$5.7 million.
(c)    Eoreign Exchange Cwg=2nent. The foreign exchange component was estimated,
excluding taxes, as follows: (a) external training - 100 percent; (b) foreign consultants -
85 percent; (c) local training - 20 percent; (d) equipment ad materials - 85 percent;
(e) fiurnl - 25 percent; (f) vehicles - 82 percent; (g) computers - 90 percent; and
(h) building rehabilitation - 40 percent. Including condngencies, the resulting foreign
exchange component is estim'ted at US$34.4 million, or about 47 percent of total project
Costs.
(d) Taxe. At negotiations, the Romanian delegation Identified items to be financed under the
project (mainly computers and othet equipment and materials fur educational institutions)
that will be exempt from import taxes and duties, ad the Value Added Tax (VAI).
Taxes and duties on other goods financed under the project and included in the project
cogs amount to US$0.2 million. Assranc  were obtained from the MOF that should
ay of the items now assumed to be tax exempt become subject to taxes and duties during
tre life of the Project, supplementary resources will be disbursed by the MOF to the
MOE in a timely fashion.



- 19-
Table 3.2: PROJECT COS1 SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF 
%TotaI
aLg Mon}                  tIUSS MmIn)           NM
Local   Forela    ToWal   Lal    Foelg  Totd    Cosos
InveXenmt $,tS
CIVIL WORKS                         162       108      270      0.1      01       0.2
EQWIPMENT
Toxtbooab-Govemmit              12,810     8,540   21,350      9.5      6.3      15.8   25
Textbooks-IBRD                  15,038    10,025   25,063     11.1      7A       18.6   30
Resoure Material                  507      1,183    1,690      0.4      0.9      1.3     2
Vehdiles                           21        94       115      -        0.1      0.1      -
Computem                          359      3,2Z1    3,590      0.3      2.4      2.7     4
FuPiwt                             91         30      122      0.1      -        0.1      -
Equipment & Maeris               1,409     6,417    7,826      1.0      4.8      5.8     9
Subtal                       30,234    29,521   59,755     224      21.9     44.3    71
TECHNICAL ASSISrANCE
Expers, exea                      775      4,392    5,167      0.6      3.3      3.8     6
Experts, lcd                    546         618    6,183      4.1      05       4.6     7
Stui- e                            24        111      135      -0.1              0.1
Subtal                        6,364     5,121   11,485     4.7       3.8      8.5    14
TRAICNIN
LoA                              4.079     1,020    4,154      3.0      0.8      3.8     6
ExtaTial                             -     1,924    1,924      -        1.4      1.4     2
Subtol                        4,079     2,943    7,022      3.0      2.2      52      8
Total Invesbt Costs               40,839    37,693   78,S32     30.3      27.9     3,2    93
Oaedh CoslE
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
Supplies                         1,833     1,222    3,054      1.3      0.9      ^.3     1
Local Staff Salaries             1,567       175    1,741      1.2      0.1      1.3     2
Oveahead                          638        638    1,276      0.4      0.4      0.9     1
Total OpaB  Coasts                 4,037      2,034    6,071     3.0       1.       45      4
TOTAL BASELINE COSIS              44,876    39,727   84,603     33.2      29.4     62.7   100
Physial Coninge                    3,562     3,366    6,928      2.6      2.5      5.1     8
Price Contingencies               4,321     3,343    7,663      3.2      2.5      5.7     9
TOTAL PROJEC ors                  52,7S9    46,435   59194      39.1      34.4     73l    117
Figues may not total due to ,uding.
3.3       R fentm.Costs, Project cost stimates iclude only It anental operatig costs Of
investment. Appraisal estmates indicate that total   rmea operating costs during the Project will
be about US$4.9 million (including contingencies), of which US$1.4 million for local staff salaries,
and the remainder for supplies and other expenses related to project management (e.g., other
consumables, telephone, postage, aministraive expenses, etc.) incurred during implementmton. The



-20 -
most signiflcant recurrent costs that will need to be sustined after project implementation are
associated with operation of the NAES, which will require about US$1 mition per year by the end of
the project. Modest rec frrent costs will also be incurred for upkeep and maintenance of computer
hardware and software inder the various components. Most institutional structures under the project
(boards, working groups and their secretariats) are deliberately set up to rely on redeployment of
existing civil servants of national institutions or teachers and local specialists who can be called upon
for services as needed rather than recruited permanently. Overall, the recurrent costs generated by
the project will be modest in relation to the existing total government budget for primary and
secondary education, with the aversge anual incremental recurrent cost during the project equivalent
to less than 1 percent of the estimated total recurrent expenditures in education in 1993.
3.4     Affordabilift of Textbook Investments. One half of the total project cost involves the
introduction of choice and improved quality textbooks through "school book fimds", which will
involve a higher level of annual investment in textbooks. As in many other countries, Romania has a
longstanding policy of providing textbooks at no charge to students. It is assumed that the following
conditions will develop by the end of the project and will together ensure the affordability and
sustainabiity of textbook provis.i under the new scheme developed under the Project:
(a) By project year five, the alternative textbook provision mechanism will cost approximately
US$13.2 million annually or about US$2.81 per student, compared with about US$1.78 per
student during 1992. Textbook expenditures accounted for only 1.6 percent of total per
student expenditures in basic and secondary education in 1992, and would increase to 1.9
percent per student under the project, whi h is expected to be sustainable under recurrent
budget resources. (Note: Early in 1993, the allocation for textbooks during the 1992/93
school year had to be increased unexpectedly by 35 percent as a result of a wage agreement
with the printers who are subsidized through t!e state budget.)
(b)   Higher quality textbooks (stronger covers, better paper) will not deteriorate as quickly as
those currently in use; thus there will be a slower depreciation of textbook investments than
in the past.
(c)   School-based choice, purchase and management of funds for textbooks will facilitate book
conservation and the gradual introduction of book loanlrental schemes at the school level.
(d) Parents' ability and willingness to pay for textbooks wiUi increase with growth in household
income levels and improved quality education, and it will be feasible to introduce at least
partial cost recovery tirough student book fees.
(e)   The education sector budget will increase from its present low level in the medium-term as
GDP growth is restored and as economic activities now funded by the state are orivatized.
3.5     Other Factors in Cost and Sustainabiity. It is expected that reform initiatives under the
project will ultimately have a positive net impact on recurrent costs. Ihe reforms in teacher training,
especially in primary level, are expected to adjust to a more appropriate level the number of newly
trained teachers seeking entry to the system. Reforms in management and flnance should result in
incentives and autonomy for districts and schools to improve their student:acher ratios and help shift
some of their expend: re to non-salary items and investments. The Govermment is also considering



- 21 -
the introduction of user fees in education to cover certain costs.12 Introducing user fees for textbooks
is seen by the Government to be unfeasible during the economic transition and prior to a period of
observable results of economic reform and of education reform, particularly the availability of new
texts supporting new curricula. Book fees are foreseen, however, as a medium-term option, and the
textbook subcomponent has bmen designed in such a wav as to allow voluntary or required
inboduction of school-based book loan/rental schemes. The protocol that governs COSA operations
stipulates that after five years, COSA operations must be self-financing through membership
contributions and fees for services. The project also provides for feasibility work on policies to
introduce user fees and diversify sources of education financing.
B.  roject Fnanlng
3.6      A World Bank loan of US$50.0 million is proposed (68 percent of total project cost,
excluding taxes). The Government will contribute US$23.5 million equivalent to finance the printing
and distribution of some textbooks, minor civil works, purchase of furniture, some operating expenses
(e.g., gas, travel, supplies, office facilities, etc.), incremental local salaries, as well as all taxes
(estimated at US$0.2 msilon). The Government's contribution (excluding taxes) represents 32
percent of the total project cost.
Table 33: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
AND SOURCE OF FINANCING
(US$ million)
IBRD      Govern      TOWal
L RAISING QUALIIY OF BASIC AND SECONDARY
EDUCATION
A. Curriculum Development                            3.1       0.1        3.2
B. Teah Trining                                      6.0       0.2        6.2
C. A_smsnt Nd Examinaions                            2.8       4.0        6.8
D. Oc_uanal Stndards & A   _aem                      2.2       0.1        2.3
. Txtboosb                                          28.0       19.1      47.2
Subtotal                                        42.2      23.5      65.6
I. lMOVING EDUCATION FINANCING AND
MANAGEMENT
A. Rsourc Allocaton, Managemet
aad Mobilizadio                                    6.0       0.0       6.0
B. Coordin   and 1 In  _m                            1.8       0.0        1.8
Subtotal                                         7.8      0.0        7.8
Totdl                                                   0.0      23S        73.5
2T  Mntr of Education ano d in midan 1993 t  fees wi be nroduced for emin  candidats-Lei 2,000
for the secondary shool e onta  cam aWd Lc3,000 for universty enuwco exam.



-22 -
Table .4: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND
SOURCE OF FINANCING
((iS$ million)
IAK
DIRD     _eruneut Total    For.         amL
Eheh.     Taxes)  Tames
CIVL WORKS                            -        0.2       0.2        0.         0.1    0.0
EQUIPMENT
Textboob - Govenmt                   -        19.1     19.1        7.6       11.5     -
Textbooks - IBRD                   22A         -       22A         8.9       13.4     -
Resoure Matials                      L.S      -         1.5        1.0        0.4     -
ValIles                             0.1       0.0       0.1        0.1                0.0
cotjvt_s5                           3.1       0.0       3.1        2.8        0.3
Funibe                               -        0.1       0.1        0.0        0.1    0.0
Equipment & Mteials                 6.7       0.1       6.8        5.6        1.1    0.1
Subota                         33.7      19.3     53.0       26.1       26.8    0.2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Exper b,eeral                       4.2       0.0       42         3.6        0.6     -
ExpeLb, local                       5.2       0.0       52         0.5        4.7
studice                             0.1       0.0       0.1        0.1        0.0     -
Subtoal                         9.6       0.0       9.6       42         5.3
TRAING
Loa                                 4.3       0.0       4.3        0.9        3.4
Exima                                1.5       -        1.5        1.5        -       -
Subtotal                        5.8       0.0       5.8        2A        3A       -
TOa Invetmet Cost                     49.0      19.6      68.6      32.8       35.6    0.2
aRwm costs
Suppliec                            0,0       2.6      2.6        1.0        1.5
Local Staff Saiaries                -         1.4       1.4       0.1        1.2
Ovahead                             1.0       0.0       1.0       0.5        0.5     -
Subtoal                         1.0       3.9       4.9        1.6       3.2      -
TOTAL                                 50.0      23.5      73.5      34.4       38.9    0.
NOTE: Figures may not totdal due to  uwding or to mourAs smale than 0.1 in mm exedtr categories.
I/ Suppies for units odher than cooination ad maant units wkitin the Minsty. Thes icxlue univesiy and umber
resource centers.



- 23 -
Table 3.S: FNANCING REQUIREEM  LAXE   (
(US$ million)
IBRP FY               FY95  FY96   FY97   FY98    FY99  FY2000            TOTAL
Government Financing     1.5    3.5     5.0      6.0      4.5      3.0         23.S
IBRID Financing          0.2    1.5     7.0    13.5    18.5        9.3         50.0
Total Financig          1.7    S.0    12.0    19.5    23.0    12.3           73.5
Req|uirements
(*)   u  may no add to tota du to rundlqg
C. eti Managemen and Jngimplatti
3.7            _.Weet Mnaga=     Since November 1991, project preparation has been coordinated by
a group of staff within the MOE, in close coordination with the IES. Ihe proposed management
structure has been designed witi a view to implem , in addition to this project, other invetm
projects in the education sector. The implementation of project activities will involve three distinct
implementation agents: (a) the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established in the MOE;
(b) Technical Departments (ID) (i.e., line departments within the MOE) for each sbcomponent; and
(c) a Sector Steering Committee (SSC), comprised of two representatives from the PCU, each TID,
and the IES.
3.8       Priect Coordination Unit. Gener administrtion of the loan (mcluding loan accounting,
coordination of procurement, and management of disbursement procedures) and logistical support will
be provided by the PCU. Specifically, tLe PCU will:
(a) be responsible, under the guidance of the SSC, for ensuring that all resources utilized
under the Project (financial, physical, staff, etc.) are in accordance with the priorities and
objectives defined under the Project and for the sector;
(b)  act as the principal liaison with the Bank (and other donors) for project administraon and
supervision purposes. Tne PCU will not design or implement programs and activities
supported by the Project, as this will be the responsibility of MOE line departments with
IES divisions;
(c) monitor project costs and project accounts, and the availability of Government counterpart
funds;
(d) process disbursement applicatio and track disbursements of loan funds;



- 24-
(e)  undertake the procurement of major equipment and software packages (excluding off-the-
shelf purchases) and the administration of suppliers' and technica assistance contracts,
using specifications provided by the TDs;
(f) monitor the placement and tracking of staff for external training, and of the consultants
hired under the Project; and
(g) prepare and distribute to relevant agencies a consolidated periodic report reflecting:
(i) the status of implementation progress, problems encountered and corrective actions
needed; (ii) current costs of each project component and estimated costs of completion;
and (iii) annual audit reports.
The Unit will be staffed by at least the following full-time personnel: the project director, a general
administrator, a procurement specialist, and an accountant. This core staff will be assisted by a
sufficient number of assistant and support staff, including at least one bilingual secretary and a
translator. The Project Director will chair the SSC.
3.9       Technical Deiartments. The detailed implementation of each project subcomponent will
be carried out by the respective technical departments in the MOE, as shown below:
(a) The Curriculum DevelQpment and Assessment subcomponents for genr.al education will
be implemented by the newly created Curriculum and Teacher Training Service of the
MOE Department of Reform.
(b)  The Teacher Training subcomponent will be implemented by the Department of Pre-
University Education (Division for Teacher Training) and the Curriculum and Teacher
Training Service.
(e) The Occupational Standards and Assessment subcomponent will be implemented by a
Research and Technical Services Unit operating under the direction of the newly formed
COSA and located at a host agency agreed by COSA.
(d)  The TIxtbooks suboomponent will be implemented by the Pre-University Education
Department of the MOE.
(e)   The Resource Allocation. Management and Mobilation subcomponent will be
implemented by the MOE Department of Budget and Finance, in close cooperation with
the MOF Division for Social Sector Budgeting.
Each TD will be responsible for ensuring that project activities are carried out in accordance with the
agreed project objectives. The Project Operating Manual (see para. 3.11 below) and other detailed
documents prepared during project preparation will constitute the guidelines for the implementation of
each subcomponent. Specific tasks for which the TDs will be responsible include:
(a)  finalizing, with the Bank, the Terms of Reference (TORs) for the technical assistance
(CA) and training required in their respective parts of the project, and evaluating TA
proposals received;
O)  monitoring the implementation of local training and seminars;



-25 -
(c)  identifying and tapping local expertise in activities such as the preparation of detaied
procedures and implementation schedules, and assisting in the preparation of equipment
lists and specifications and evaluating bids received;
(d) preparing physical and financial forecasts of future actions required to implement their
parts of the project; and
(e)   monitoring and preparing reports on implementation progress for each of their respective
subcomponents.
3.10      Sector Steering Committee. A Sector Steering Committee (SSC), chaired by the Project
Director and comprised of two representatives of each of the TDs, will be established to help ensure
coordination of activities among the various components of the education system, as well as effective
communication of information across project subcomponents. Each of the TDs will appoint its
representatives to the SSC. The Committee will report directly to the Minister of Education.
3.11      A Project Operating Manual (POM) has been compiled from documents developed during
appraisal. The POM includes detailed TORs for TA, base implementation schedules and procedures,
aWnd technical background for each project component, as appropriate.
3.12      Monitoring and Reporting. In addition to its day-to-day management and coordination of
project activities, the PCU will be responsible for overall project monitoring. Annex 12 provides a
detailed project monitoring plan. These indicators provide a framework for systematic monitoring of
developments in the sector and of progress in project implementation. An outline for routine progress
reporting is being designed in such a way as to encourage regular monitoring of project activities and
availability of resources and updating in advance of Bank supervision missions. By March 31 and
September 1 of each project year, the PCU will submit to the Bank a consolidated report of the stabus
of project implementation covering each project component, its objectives and activities, with
emphasis on: (a) current status and issues; (b) deviations, if any, from the implementation plan and
project targets; (c) recommendations for actions and forward planning; and (d) atal and planned
expenditures. Assurances were given by the Government during negotiations that the MOE wiUl
prepare and furnish to the Bank every six months a report on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project, according to performance indicators agreed with the Bank (as set
forth ir: Annex 14).
3.13      Mid-Term Review and Evaluation. By November 1996 (or about two years after Loan
Effectiveness), the PCU will undertake jointly wvith IBRD a mid-term review of project
implementation progress to determine whether: (a) the project's intended objectives remain valid;
(b) implementation is advancing satisfactorily to justify its continued implementation; and (c) any
adjustments to, or significant restructuring of, the project will be necessary to improve its
effectiveness. The review will pay particular atention to the textbook subcomponent and to the
introduction of new budgeting and financial management practices. The annual work program for the
year following the joint mid-term review will reflect the recommendations made. Assurances were
given by the Government at negotiations that a mid-term project review will be conducted,
according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank, in November 1996.



- 26 -
3.14      Project Completion and Evaluation. The Project is expected to be completed by
Sep.ember 30, 1999. The PCU will be responsible for preparing a final project report, with
technical assistance as required to ensure objectivity.
3.15       uervision. As the project is broad in technical scope and will be thefir-st Bank
operation to be implemented by MOE, more intensive Bank supervision will be required than the
usual twelve week coefficient allows. (MIe Supervision Plan for the project is presented in
Annex 15). The basis for Bank supervision will be the project monitoring reports and indicators, and
POM, supplemented by a review of project expendiures and availability of financial resources.
Substantive discussions with technical assistance groups implementing and assisting in the
implementation of various components, as wel1 as with the PCU and the Government, will also be
arranged. Supervision staff will need to include, in addition to the task manager and project
implementation specialist, periodic visits by specialists on curriculum and assessment,
vocationallechnical education, textbook provision, and education financinglmanagement. To help
ensue smooth implementation and economize on supervision resources, the Human Resources Sector
Implementation Officer (ocal staff) of the Romania Resident Mission will provide support and follow-
up with the MOE as necessary.
D. Pft      oronie c wement Amrngr aen
3.16      The project elements, estimated costs, and proeme  arrangements for those elements
financed by the Bank loan are summarized in Table 3.6 below. Incremertal staff salaries, a portion
of the TAB-approved textbooks, furniture and civil works, all of which are financed entirely by the
Govement, are shown under the Non-Bank Financed (NBF) column.



-27 -
Table 3.: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENn I
(US$ million)
_______Procuzernt Mehod_
lCa           LCB            Other       NBF b/       Tu
1. Civil Wot                          -                                        0.2           0.2
2. 0oods
2.1 Equipmet & Meials               7.5                        0.8                         8.3
(7.3)                      (0.8) c d/                  (8.0)
' Tuboeoks                                     22.4                       19.1          41.4
(22.4)                                  (22.4)
2.3 Furnitum                                                                 0.1          0.1
2.4 Vehiles                                                    0.1                        0.1
(0.1) c/                   (0.1)
2.5 Coaup*                         2.8                         0.3                        3.1
(2.8)                     (0.3) cl                    (3.1)
3. Ckamisand Th&Anng
39.0                        9.0
(9.0)                      (9.0)
32 I _Di_tiond Dvelopmat                                      0.5                         0.5
(0.5)                      (0.5)
3.3 Sbudie                                                    0.1                         0.1
(0.1)                      (0.1)
3.4 Tubing                                                    5.8                         5.8
(5.8)                      (5.8)
4.  ciunga Opeting Coast                                         1.0 e/        3.9           4.9
(1.0)                      (1.0)
TOTAL                              10.2          22.4         17.6          2.3          733
(10.1)        (22.4)       (17.5)                     (50.)
Note: Figues in parentheses are the respecve amounts financed by IBRD.
aS Figures may not add to totals due to rounding.
W/ Non-Bank Financed; finnced 100 pescent by the Govenment
c/ Itenatinl and local shopping - US$0.7 million and US$0.5 million aggregate, respectively.
d/ Contuts for goods which the Bank agrees are of propnetay nature may be awarded afler direct negotiaton
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
e/ Includes overead for project managemnent upport, etc.
3.17       Country-specific, standard bidding documents have been prepared for Romania and were
discussed with the Romanian authorities in January/February 1994. It was agreed during negotiations
that these documents (and until they are finalized, the Bank standard bidding documents) will be used
for all procurement of goods and services under the loan. These standad documents include



- 28 -
International Competitive Bidding (CB) for procurement of goods, and consultant services.
Furthermore, the laws and regulations governing local procurement procedures and practices in
Romania will be reviewed during the course of FY94 (Country Procurement Assessment Report).
The findings of that review will be discussed with the Romanian authorities, and agreements will be
sought regarding any changes needed to make the procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.18     All equipment and materials to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds will be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992). Romanian suppliers
competing for contracts for the supply of goods procured under ICB procedures wil receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the prevailing customs duty applicable
to nonexempt importers, whichever is less, provided it can be proved that the value added to the
product in Romania exceeds 20 percent of -the ex-factory bid price.
3.19     The dvil works included under the project consists of the rehabilitation of a building to
house the National Assessment and Examinations Service (NAES). All costs related to this
rehabilitation, estimated at US$200,000 equivalent, will be financed by the Government.
3.20     The goods to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds include office and educational
equipment and supplies, rescurce materials, computers, and vehicles. (See para. 3.21 below for the
procurement arrangements fi)r textbooks.) These items will be grouped into about ten packages
costing between US$250,000 and US$2 million. Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to
cost more than US$250,000 equivalent each will be procured through ICB. Contracts costing
between US$50,000 and US$250,000, up to an aggregate of US$0.7 million for items such as
teaching aids and computer hardware and software unavailable in Romania, may be awarded on the
basis of three price quotations from suppliers from at least three different eligible source countries.
Items that cannot be grouped or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$50,000 per contract, or off-the-shelf items such as office and classroom supplies and equipment,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.5 million, may be purchased on the basis of a
minimum of three price quotations obtained from qualified suppliers. Contracts for goods which the
Bank agrees are of proprietary nature (e.g., unique reference materials for curriculum development,
equipment-specific spare parts, software) may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.21     With respect to textbooks, a new system of textbook approval, selection and financing
will be developed under the project and implemented as of Project Year 2. Local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures, acceptable to the Bank, will be followed for textbook procurement. These
procedures will allow for a widely published and open competitive bidding process in which foreign
firms will be eligible to participate, either independently or under joint venture arrangements with
Romanian publishing houses. The mechanism will operate as follows: A Textbook Approvals Board
(lAB) will be established by MOE. Publishers will be invited to submit textbook proposals to the
Board for review. The advertisement of this competitive process will be local. The proposals will be
reviewed against a set of quality criteria (see Annex 6). Of those books that meet the quality critera,
the three proposals achieving the highest combined scores for qualitylprice will then be selected as
approved textbook options for five years. The MOE will enter into standard contracts with the
publishers of the approved textbook proposals (about US$10,000 per contract) for development of the
textbook and production of sample books for exhibition at the teachers' houses (CPDs) in the 41
judets. Individual schools will receive a list of the approved textbook options, their prices, and
notification of the school's allocation for books (based on a student per capita allocation). Publishers



-29 -
will be responsible for collecig and aggregating the schools' book orders and submitting the
aggregat  orders to the inspectorates. Based on the per student allocations, the MOE will place the
otder with the publisher for the agreed total volumes and ttles of textbools to be produced for that
school year. The estimated production and distribution cost for textbooks under the project amounts
to USS41.4 million, of wbich US$22.4 will be finced under the Bank loan. lhe textbooks financed
by the Government (US$19.1 million) will follow the same competive selcion process as set out
above.
3.22      Consultants for technial assistance financed unde the project (totalling US$9.6 milion)
will be selected in accordance with the GuWdeUnes for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Ihe Bank's country-
specific consultant services conturact format wDI be used for contracting consultants. Long-term
technical assistance from abroad will be contracted for the assment, occupational standards,
texbook, resource allocation and manaement, and project management s ones. Odier
technical assistance will be shontterm, individually recruited cosultans, with assignmen rangi
from two weeks to about six months. Technical asace contrat wi comprise about seven
packages fot values ranging from USS100,000 to just above US$1 million;3 about 250 contac for
an average of US$10,000 each for textbook development; about 13 contrats with individual short-
term consultants from US$7,500 to US$90,000 each; and about 20 contra for local consulta
(averaging $230,000). All individual consuln contcs wil be award  on the basis of comparson
of at least tee curriclla vitae for each seection of consultnt. Tning acdvies wil normally be
ncluded in TA conts (local training etmated at about US$4.3 million). Extea training wil be
crried out according to the consultant guidelines (about US$1.5 millon). A summary of technical
assistance to be financed under the loan is shown in Anon 9.
3.23      The inmental opetg cos to be financed uder the loan include only overheads
(i.e.. small office supplies and other consumables, costs relatd to project managemn, support for
dissemination of teaching mateias, postage, telephone, etc.). Al naemeal staff salaries we
financed by the Govenment.
3.24      All conts financed under the project wi  follow the Bank's guidelines and
doumentation reulreumet. Most contracts wfll be small, and it is esmated that about 500
contacs wil be signed during the life of the project.   is expected dt  about 60 contracts will be
subject to prior review. It is expected that these contc wil ile approximaly 15 for
equipment (about US$10.2 million); 20 of the estimated 250 standard textbook cotracts for
manuscript development and exhibition (about US$0.2 miion); about 15 of the etmated 40 standard
consults' coacts; and ten training contracts (about US$1.5 million).
3.25      AU contacts for goods of a value ceeding US$250,000 oquivalent wi be subject to the
Bank's prior review. AUl consultant contas, with the exceptio of sml local conacu not
exceeding US$100,000 each in vaue, wi}l be subject to prior reviow. The Bank will, however,
review terms of references, short lists, and consultants' proffles for al Individual constant.
Seectve post-review of awarded contrs below the threshold level will be caried out on about one
in three goods conoao. It is expected that local suppliers will participate in all ICB procurement for
goods. Al procement activities will be coordind by the PCU. A long-term project
'TO  for TA packap la  be pmpsed and an inbzd. in ti POM



-30-
goods. All procurement activities will be coordinated by the PCU. A long-em  project
implementation consultant, as well as short-term procurement experts, will be engaged to assist the
PCU in this area.
3.26     Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows: (a) ptompt reporting
of contract award information by the Borrower; and @) comprehensive quartly reports to the Bank
by the Borrower (assisted by consultants) indicating: (j) revised cost etmates for individual contacS
and the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies;
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including adverdsing, biddig, contract award, and
compleuon time for individual coacts; and (iii) compliance wit aggrgt limits on speified
methods of procurement. A base procurment implemeniou plan is sown in Anmex II.
E. Disure
3.27     Disbursement of the Bank loan will be over a five-year perWd ad on the folowing basis
(see Annex 11 for the esdmated quarterly disbursement schedule):
(a)  10t. percent of foreign expendiures and 100% of local expenditu   (-factory cost) for
equipment and materials, and 95% of local expendiures for other iems procured locally
(about US$30.5 million);
(c)   100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance, including sue and resarch (about
US$8.5 million);
(d)   100 percent of expendiures for local aining and fellowships abroad (about US$S.1
mlllion); and
(e)   100 percent of expenditures for non-salay, incmental operatng coss (about US$1.0
million).
The remaining US$5.0 million represent unallocated loan proceeds.
3.28     AJI disbursemes wil be flly dumented with th excepion of goods contracts ostdag
less than US$250,000 equialen, local training, and opeat  costs, for whih       will be
made agist statements of expditue (SOE) ceied by the drector of the C.he rquid
supporting docmentation will be retained by tho PCU for at leot one year aftr rceipt by the Bank
of the audit report for the year in which the last disbu temen was made. Tis    n on will be
made available for review by the auditors and by visng staff upon request. The Project closing date
wMI be March 31, 2000.
3.29      SgW            To fiitate dmely project impleaon, the Governmet will
establish, maintain and opera, unde tem  and conditions accetbl to the Ban, a Spcia  ccomt
in a converible curncy, to which the World Bank will make an i     deposi of USS2.0 mil
Tbe Special Account will be replenished every four months, or whener one thd of tho ud
balance has been withdrawn  Doumentation requiements for replenhmt applcatos will follow
the same procedures as described above. In addition, mounly bank stmem    of the speci acount
which have been reconciled by the Borrower will accompany all repleisent request. A project
account in Lei has been established and will be used by tbe PCU for exediuresto be covered by
government financing.



-31 -
3.30     Project Accounts and Audits. 'he PCU will maitain separte accouns for all project
activities, In conformance with inernatil accountng practices. Project accounts, includ' . the
Special Account, will be audited in accordance with the Bank's 'Guiddies for IlnadW K-porting
and Auditing of Projects Fhanced by the World Bank*. The Bank will be provided, within six
months of the end of each Government fiscal year, with an audit report of such scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on dibursements
against certified SOEs. The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted durin the
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparton, can be
relied upon to support the releted withdrawal applications.
F. StatusotPrMpa
3.31     Key staff have been recruited to work in the PCU. Basic equipment is being purchased to
support the unit, and other essentials are being procured. A project account has been opened with the
necessary expenditure authority for the PCU. Teams responsible for the components have been
appointed. Terms of reference and job descriptions have been developed and agreed for the Nationa
Boards on Curricuilum, Teacher Training, Assessment and Textbook Approval. he. MOB is testing
new procedures and implementation arrangements with all pates Involved in the new textbook
provision mechanism-curriculum speciists, publishers, Inspectorates and school heaiasters and
teachers.



-32 -
IV. BESO         A      RISKS
4.1      lTe Poject Is expected to yield the following major benefits: (a) reformed Institutional
structures and processes that can contribute to ongoing Improvement and change in education,
specifically: (I) more reliable and valid school-leaving examinations, student selecton mecms,
and occupational certification delivered in a manner ta offers a fair chance to all candidaes and
increases public accountability in education; (i) greaer diversity, durability ad higher quality of
textbooks in all schools throughout the country; 011) open competition for publishing, prinfting and
distribution of textbooks; and (b) more rational allocation and use of scarce fiscal resources for
education and greaer transparency, equity and incentives for efficiency in budgeting mechanisms for
schools.
4.2       The major risks to project implementaion and success  e: (a) the weak institutional
capacity of MOE to implement highly Interdependent reform components in an efficient and well-
integrated manner; (b) fiscal tightening beyond that contemplated i the Stand-By AgreementSystemic
Transformation Facility now being finalized and/or unanticipated price increases that could lead to
furter deterioration in resources for education; and (c) resistance to chge at the nationa and local
level if the rationale, proas and process of educational refbrm are not based on broad particpatory
involvement, openly communicated and Implemented in a transparent manner. To help mitigate risks
of institutional capacity, exteive long-term technical assistance will be provided to assist the PCU
an key implementing units. Technical assiance conacts will be packaged acoss subcomponent
wherever possible to help ensure coordinton of effr  Actua and projected counterpart funding
expenaditues under the project wIll be carefully monitored and reviewed reglady with }JOE and
MOF. Governing institutions and decision-making processes for the various reform initiatives are
constituted so as to increase accountability to the public. Dissemination of information thoughout the
school system and more publicly will feature in all components.



-33 -
V. AGREE READ AN RCMNATION
h-saXiXyt at odti
5.1        u      ia thonsthe Govenment gave assurances that:.
(a)  the development of upgaded textbooks wil not be conrcted to any publishers which are
benaries of budgetary subsidies (para. 2.21);
(b)  th MOE will prepare and funish to the Bank evecy six montbs (by March 31 and
Setember 1 of each year) a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project, accoding to performance indicators agreed with the Bank (Annex 14 and
param 3.12); and
(c)   a mid-tem proJect review, according to tm  of refren  agreed with the Bank, wgll be
conducted in November 1996 (para. 3.13,.
>on. of EffMfriveUs
5.2      Before loan efectiveness, the Government wil confirm the esabisment of a fully
functioning PCU with staff and other resources satiacy to the Bank (para 2.29).
{of Dishuutsme
5.3       A condition of disbursement of loan proceeds earared for the Occuptonal Standards
subompone  wi be the establishment (though the signing of a protool) of the Council on
Occupaonal Stdards and Aessment (pam. 2.16).
5.4       Subject to the above, the proposed operation wil provide a suiable basis for a lomn of
US$50.0 million to the Governm  of Romania.
m    Xm:du~m~atla



- 34                             MANX 1
Page 1 of 1
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Kea Economic and Sodal Idicators
Year
Total Population (million)                    22.8             1992
14 and under (% of pop.)                                     1992
Density (pop./sq.km)                          96               1992
Percentage of Population in Rural Areas       47%              1992
Population Growth Rate (annual rate)          0.4              1992
Projected Population (millions)               24.5             2000
Labor Force
Participation rate (% of labor force)        46               1990
Amnual Per Capita Income (US$)                1,380            1991
Education:
Gros Enrollment Ratios:
- Prmary                                     90.1            1991/92
- Secondary                                  74.6            1991192
Health:
fnt Mortality (per '000 live births)         23              1992
Under five mortality                         30               1990
Total fertity rate (births/woman)            2.1              1990
Population per:
- Hospital Bed                              112             1989
- Physician                                552              1989
- Nurse                                     171             1989
Life Expectancy (years)                      70               1990
Source: Marer, etja, Historically Planned Economies: A Guide to the Data, World Bank, 1992;
Ministry of Education; Ministry of Health; World Bank esimates.
UIAROMMMUCMARWE       IND



ANNEX2
S                             Page 1 of 13
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Basic and Secondary Education in Romania
1.    Structure of Basic EducAtion. Schooling in Romania is presently compulsory in grades one to
eight. The Minisay of Education (MOE) is seeking to revise this policy in new legislation which
would require pupils to remain in school up to age 16, the usual age at completion of grade 10.
Coverage has been virtually universal for both boys and girls over the past several decades. Basic
education is structured into pre-school (ages 36/7), prllary (grades 1-4, or up to age 9/10) and
gymnasium (grades 5-8, or 13/14). There are special schools for arts, sports, foreign languages, and
for mildly disabled or handicapped children over 3 years of age.' Pupils of ethnic minority families
are provided opportunity to study in pre-school, primary and gymnasium level schools where the
language of instuction is in Hungarian, German, Serbian, Slovak, Ukrainian and Czech.
2.     Structure of Secondary Education. A diversified secondary school structure comprises:
(a) four-year academic high schools; (b) technical high schools offering four-year day and five-year
evening programs; (c) two and three-year vocational schools attached to enterprises; and
(d) alterative vocational schools which are attached to cooperatives.2 After secondary education,
higher education is provided through 56 public universities, polytechnics and institutes. Numerous
private universities have also sprung up since 1989.
3.     Technical, vocational and the alternative programs are usually delivered in a common campus
known as a *group scholar". These campuses are generally specialized in one or two technical areas,
sach as textile man   ng or chemical industry, which reflect the predominant local emnployer and
largest state-owned enterprise and are known as the school's "profile". Also offered at the group
scholar are a two-year industrial foreman's program and evening courses for adults. With the decline
of manufacturng during the transition, longstanding links bflween schools and large enterprises are
breaking down. Many firms are no longer financially able to absorb school leavers as employees or
trainees and are thus losing interest and ability to support school programs.
4.     Enrollmen. Total enrollment in education in 1992/93 was about 4.6 million or 20 percent of
Romania's total population (See Annex 2, Table 1). The breakdown by subsector is 16 percent in
pre-school, 55 percent in primary and gymnasia, 22 percent in secondary schools, 1 percent in post-
secondary vocational programs, and 5 percent in higher education. Total enrollment is decreasing,
largely as a result of decline in Romania's birth rate since the mid-1980s. This trend can be expected
T1he Ministy of Headh u reponse for govenment progm  prviding car of children under 3 yeas; came of
seeely hanapped children u provided trugh inmtions managed by the Ministy of Labor and Social Protection.
Technial, vocaioal and altemativc pgrani are usally dlivered in a common camus known as a group scholar.
Each canmus specializes in one or two techc arels, such as texile unaucturing or chemical industry, which refect
tie predomnant lok  "ployer and large sae-owned anterprise and ar known as the school's 'profie.



- 36 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 13
to continue with the more open family planning services since 1989 and with economic recession.
The size of the cohort entering the first grade of primary school in 1997 is projected to be 8 percent
smaller than the cohort in 1992.
5.    Basic Indicators. The veracity of statistcs on education during the Ceausescu years is highly
suspect and new data collection efforts are just being developed, but Romania's system has certainly
been strong in several respects. Participation has generally been high. In the 1991/92 school year,
gross enrollment ratios were estimated at about 90 percent for primary and gymnasium and 75 percent
in secondary education. Participation in pr^-schools has been declining, from about 72 percent of the
age cohort enrolled in 1989190 to about 52 percent in 1991/92, in conjunction with the declining role
of enterprises in pre-school education and the increasing cost to parents of pre-school education.
Repetition rates appear to have been low for at least a generation. Dropout has been reported as low
in official statistics for many years, although sharply declining enrollment figures at the secondary
level in recent years suggest that such problems may be on the rise. Data are not yet available on the
educational attainment of the population, and the educational research community in Romania has
been working openly only since 1990. It is therefore difficult to generalize on student achievement,
the effectiveness of Romania's education system, and the relative effectiveness of its constituent parts.
6.    MaNnaent. Since 1990, the Ministry of Education (MOE) has been responsible for
managing pre-school, primary and secondary schools, and higher education.3 MOE has a staff of
about 400 persons and an affiliated Institute for Education Sciences (IES) with about 150 staff. In
each of Romania's 41 judets, there is an education inspectorate of about 50-70 staff headed by a
general inspector who is appointed by MOE. The inspectorate functions essentially as an
administrative arm of the central government and as such is responsible for ensuring school quality,
aggregating school budget requests and distributing the actual allocations, and for all local school staff
hiring. Linked to the inspectorate in each judet is a Casa Personalului Didactic (CPD), or Teachers'
House, which in the past was a vehicle for propaganda and indoctrination of school staff. These
facilities are increasingly being used to support professional development of teachers, to facilitate
educational research, and to serve wider functions in the community. Primary and secondary schools
are managed by headmasters who, since 1990, have been appointed through election by the teachers
and then approved by the judet inspectorates and MOE. Each school headmaster is assisted by a
pedagogical council, comprised mainly of teachers, who plan and organize the school's work and
handle relations with parents, enterprises, and students.
7.    Curriculum for basic and secondary education is prescribed by the MOE. There is a uniform
curriculum for all primary schools. At the secondary level, academic high schools offer humanities,
sciences and math. Curriculum is highly prescriptive, with detailed syllabi developed by MOE to
correspond directly to textbook content. During the Ceausescu years, there was deliberately little
coverage of social science. In technical high schools, pupils spend approximately one-third of their
time in a technical specialty and twu-thirds in academic subjects (See Annex 2, Table 3 for profiles of
technical high schools). Vocational schools devote about two-thirds of instructional time to technical
study and practice. The alternative vocational programs are largely practice-oriented. Altogether,
'   Prviously, nmot secondiy vocaional schools were operaed by line  nisties, icluding Ministties of TranWort and
Telecomncatio, Machine Buflding, Elctnics, Frety, Chny, Ene, Mining, Petroleum, Meallurgy,
Inustra Consucti, Light dusty, Heathh, Agriulture, Pood Idusuy, Inetior and Conumerce.



- 37                                         ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 13
there are more than 130 occupational specialties in the secondary system in Romania.' Curriculum in
technical subjects may be initiated locally but must be approved by the MOE. The MOE and IES
have launched a curriculum revision effort for general education which is being carried out by groups
of subject specialists and teachers.
8.     Approach to Teaching and Learning. Teaching in Romania is characterized as "directive' or
'frontal", with the teacher as the center of activity and the teaching program as the definitive content.
It is unusual for students to work on their own tasks at their own pace or to work in groups. Lecture
and rote learning predominate; there is little attention to methodology that will encourage practical
problem solving, student initiative, and learning that incorporates more than one subject area.
Teacher training programs, especially at secondary level, concentrate on developing knowledge of
subject matter. There is relatively little attention to pedagogy and teaching practice. Romanian
education specialists are gaining exposure to methodologies used in other countries, but actual change
in the classroom has not been widespread.
9.      Learning Assessment and Selectiom  Mechanisms. Assessment in pre-school and lower
primary schooling consists entirely of performance-based, continuous assessment done informally by
class teachers. At gymnasium, written tests are administered by teachers each term. Admission to
secondary academic and technical schools is by entrance examinations, which combine a national
examination with written or oral examinations in each school's field of study. Candidates must
declare in advance which secondary school and specialization they wiil apply for. In order to take the
examination, they must travel to the school which has a specialization they hope to study. The
examination is delivered by rudimentary means (a limited number of photocopies are sent to each
judet and provided to schools where teachers handwrite test items on a blackboard). If a candidate
fails to gain a place in his/her intended specialization, s/he must repeat the entire procedure to be
considered for another school, thereby often losing a year.5 Vocational schools admit candidates
without examination, but pupils must be accepted as 'trainee workers' in an appropriate enterprise.
The alternative vocational programs have no special entrance requirements. Within secondary
education, academic subjects are assessed on the basis of written work. Vocational and practical
subjects are continuously assessed on the basis of performance on practical work, assignments and
oral presentations, as well as written work.
10.    Student Certification. The exam at the end of grade eight is essentially a norm-referenced
selection mechanism and as such does not formally certify completion of basic education. Nor is this
4    This high degree of spec tion in secondary schooling was typical of centally planned cconomics and Commuit
poLtical stems. It enabld the stat to engage youth in economic activhy at an early age, constmin labor mobility, and
contain development of an intellectul class. By contmst, in OECD countries, the distinton blween academic and
tecnial educaton is becoming increasiny  blhued as educato focuse on developing a stident's cognitve ability to
learnd solve problem  in a rel-life conext. Sudets of aU abilities are being provided a common broad prepartion
up to at lesst age 15/16. lTereafter, vocational specialization is lik}ly to be in one of 15-20 broad occupational clustem.
'    This fonn of selection is typical of the fomer socialit countries and has thee principal drawbacks. First, the path to
academic study is highly biased in favor of families already haing higher oducation backgrounds and ftom urban areas.
Second, it was designed during a time when cildu of parents employed as industrial wo*eau had other acc  to
positions of leadership through the poditicl panty and to an equality of mial benefits  ough administWatively sat
wages for low skil jobs; neither of these elents win be stained, thus making the sele  system in Romania, and
elwhere, unsustaina. Third, it rinfores elemnts of centr planning, paticudary vety limited labor mobilty, pre-
sweetion by the s"ta of the number and vaiety of wailable jobs, and the subordined  ltionship of the student/wodrer
to the enterprise.



- 38 -                              ANNEX 
Page 4 of 13
instrument used to provide feedback on student achievement. At the end of academic and technical
high school, students may take the national Baccalaureate examination, which tests in two compulsory
and two elective subjects. Students in technical high schools who do not take this exam may receive
a secondary school completion certificate. There is no national qualification for pupils who complete
vocational or alternative programs; exams are set locally by individual schools. The Baccalaureate is
a necessary condition for entrance into higher education."
11.   Teachers and Conditions of Service. MOE estimates that in 1992/93 there were more than
283,000 teachers on its payroll in education, an incr-tse of about 3 percent over the previous year
and 24 percent above 1989/90 levels. This increase is party due to the administraive shift to MOE
of secondary schools that were once under sectoral ministries, but it also signals a trend oward
inefficient overstaffing in the sector. The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MOEF) estimates that
the total number of education sector staff, including administrative personnel, increased by about
28 percent from 1991 to 1992. Student:teacher ratios (See Annex 2, Table 3) are already in the lower
range of international norms, particularly in gymnasium and general and technical high schools. In
1992/93, Romania had student teacher ratios of 14 for gymnasium and 12 for the high schools,
compared with averages in OECD countries of 18.5 and 15, respectively.
12.   The teaching hours per week in basic and secondary education are currently 18, based on the
MOE's agreement with the teacher's unions in 1990, which reduced the requirement from 24 hour:
per week. A teachers' pay is derived from a salary scale based on the teaching degree attained and
years of experience. Teachers' salaries are 10 percent below the national average for others with
similar levels of educational attairnent and 15 percent lower than the average for the industrial
sector. Nearly half of all teachers in primary and secondary education have 18 or more years of
service. Since 1989, teachers' unions have played an increasing role in publicizing issues of their
conditions of service and broader concerns about education policy.
13.   Pre-Service Teacher Training. In basic education, pre-service training is offered at the 35
pedagogical high schools or ecoles nonmales which are located throughout the country. These schools
provide general education combined with practical and theoretical training in pedagogy. Practical
training is provided through direct contact with qualified teachers in "application schools", at an
average of 125 hours per year. Beginning in the 1992/1993 school year, MOE extended this program
from four to five years as a first step toward shifting the pre-service training of primary school
teachers to the post-secondary level.
14.   Secondary teachers of academic or technical theory subjects attend university programs with
all other students, matriculating to become teacher trainees at the end of their fourth year of study. In
their fifth year of university, these students study general pedagogy, psychology and subject didactics.
Professional practical training is limited, averaging one hour a week during their last year at
university. Teachers of 'practice" classes in technical/vocational programs are usually technicians
without higher education degrees or pedagogical training. In general, secondary school teachers are
well-prepared in subject matter, but in teaching methods are trained mainly to maximize levels of
student recall, rather than synthesis and evaluation.
F Por entrance to public universit, sudent nmst pss not only the baccalauat but abo eaminaon set by the specific
faculty of fte patdar uniersity s/be is seeig to en.  The exams vary widely witin and between universites.
In Jun 1993, the Minist of Educin announce that a common universiy enttance examinatin would be itroduced
during schowl year 1993/94.



-39-                                 ANNEX2
Page 5 of 13
15.    Teacher Certification and In-Service Training. After their pre-service training, prinary and
secondary teachers begin their professional activities as 'probationers" for three years. At the end of
this period, they are licensed to become teachers if they pass a test which covers subject knowledge,
psychology, didactics and practical demonstration in a classroom. At this stage, they obtain a national
diploma called dejInat1vte. During the first ten years of their professional career, primary and
secondary teachers voluntarily attend in-service training, with the incentive that salary increases are
linked with professional upgrading. After five years, teachers may attain "second-degree" status and
after ten years may become "first degree' teachers. Reaching each degree involves an assessment
similar to that for the deflnativate. These tests are prepared during vacation periods and offered at
the ecoles nornale for primary teachers, and, for secondary teachers, at university faculties, the
CPDs and the laboratory for teacher training at IES. In addition, teachers' activities are monitored by
subject inspectors under the judet inspectorate. The inspectors also provide professional development
through on-the-job-training and short seminars, usually offered at the 41 CPDs. Despite this
elaborate structure of certification, the MOE estimates that about 12 percent of teachers in basic and
secondary education are practicing in the classroom without the required qualifications.
16.    Textbks. The Government has a longstanding policy of providing textbooks to schools
without charge to students, on the basis of one book per subject for each student at each grade and in
13 minority group languages, in addition to Romanian.7 The successive govermnents since 1989
have been committed to continuing free textbook provision, at least during the economic transition. It
is proving increasingly difficult for the state to maintain previous levels of supply to schools in the
face of cost increases.' There has recendy been discussion in the MOEF about introducing at least
partial cost recovery of textbooks through user fees.
17.     As was typical of centrally planned economies, nearly all textbooks used in schools are
produced by the state-owned and subsidized publishing house, Edkura Didacica si Pedagogica
(EDP), which is under MOE.9 EDP has approximately 200 staff in Bucharest and additional staff in
other regions to produce minority language texts. Textbook authors are selected by MOE. EDP
publishes about 500 titles. Approximately 80 percent of the textbooks are produced at the central
printing factory of the Ministry of Culture. In past years, books were transported to the judets by a
state-owned distnbutor, although they are now being shipped direct from the printer to the judet
inspectorate.
18.    The physical and educational quality of textbooks are lacking. Low grade covers, variable
quality of text paper, and weak bindings of the books result in rapid disintegration. Presentation of
t    In prcica tems, this man that a 5eonday school sdent shuM reeive about nine books per school year.
s MOE decides tho number of textbook volumes to be produced annually using population tists fom schools and the
available budget emvelope after sais. Judet wipeta  are providd with alocato, on the basis of which they
may purchase sate-published books at prices set by MOE. In 1992, a copy of a typical textbook cost 95 lei, of which
36.46 lei was provided as a subsidy to the dat textbook publisr. Subsidies an culy being paid in arrears one
year after the judets have reeived textbook. To continu openion, the state publisher is having to seek overdaft
fuAding from the Natonl Bank until subiy payments amreeived from MOE.
9    Ther is no OECD country in which the Stat desiWn, maftures and distributes all teboob through State
instibions. Th role of the State is generally Imited to setting   icular standards and textbook guidelines which
pria publis  may utli&D i conptiton for public purchang. Local pva publishers make use of copyight and
servces fiom many firms, both locd and foreign.



- 40 -                              ANNEX2
Page 6 of 13
material is dense, often in tiny print sizes to conserve on paper and with few illustrations and
diagrams. There are no accompanying teacher guides to support textbooks. Very few textbooks have
been updated or replaced since 1989. Because the government subsidy goes through MOE to EDP,
and there is generally only one approved text for each subject, schools have no choice in selection of
core textbooks.
19.   Supplementary Materials. It is difficult to generalize on the provision of supplementary
materials, as there appears to be disparity between comparatively well-provided central urban schools
and rural or suburban technical schools. About 75 percent of primary and secondary schools in
Romania have a library of some sort, although there are wide variations in the size and quality of
collections,10 storage conditions, reading facilities and staffing. The content of school libraries is
generally limited to what was allowed before 1989, less the discarded ideological material.
20.    Science laboratories and practical facilities for technical/vocational training exist in most
secondary schools but suffer from outdated or broken equipment and lack of funds for consumables
and spare parts. Scientific apparatus is most often used to demonstrate set experiments, not for
hands-on, student-directed learning. Film, television, and audio cassettes are rarely used in schools.
The use of computers in schools has been increasing in recent years with hardware acquired mainly
through donation by enterprises and some external sources. Their use is usually limited, however, to
teaching of programming languages for students of the informatics specialty, with much less attention
to broader applications of computing across the curriculum or to use of the computer as a teaching
aid.
21.    School Infrastructure. Romania has more than 28,000 school units in basic and secondary
education (See Annex 2, Table 4). Some school facilities are considered national schools and as such
have boarding facilities. While both rural and urban communities have school buildings that appear to
be well-used and conscientiously maintined at presen, there are emerging strains that will require
attention in the medium-term for sustainability of the system. There has been little school
construction over the last decade, and many buildings are in need of renovation or refurbishment.
Multiple shift schooling is widespread and affects an estimated 40 percent of pupils in urban areas.
MOE estimates that some 900 schools operate in three to four shifts daily. To manage the shifts,
many schools shorten class periods by 10-15 minutes. Decline in real levels of school operating
budgets in recent years has meant inevitable shortcuts or neglect in building maintenance. In rural
areas during winter, classrooms or laboratories may be unused due to lack of wood for heating.
22.    Expenditures. (See Annex 2, Tables 5 and 6.) As a percentage of GDP, Romania's spending
on education at about 3.9 percent of GDP in 1992 is low by most intemational comparisons."1 This
level reflecs an increased priority over pre-1989 levels (average total yearly spending from 1985-1989
was 2.4 percent of GDP), although in real terms expenditure has been declining. Total expenditure in
A1though somm  hool libnras hve upwards of 50,000 boobs, two-thius have fewer than 5,000 and a quarter have
fewer than ,S00 books.
blhike compns between countries of vazying income levcds ms be drawn with can, it is ilstrive to note that
totl spending on education as a perte of GDP avenged 5.7% in OECD countries in 1988. In other CEE countries,
spending was 3.8% of GDP in Poland (1991), 5.3% in the former Czech and Slovak Fedeml Republic (1988), and 5.4%
in Hunary (1988). Expenditus in Algeria and Malaysia, which an roughly conparable to Ronania in total population
and income per capita, rango from 7-9% of ODP.



-    -                               ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 13
1992 was about Lei 185 billion. Expenditure per pupil varies among judets for reasons that are not
transparent in the budget process. Government expenditure on education during 1992 represented
about 13 percent of total government expenditure, compared with 15 percent in 1991. Of the total
MOE budget, about 75 percent is for salaries, with the remainder mainly for operating expenses and
core textbooks. MOE estimates it will spend about 1 percent or approximately US$4.6 million
equivalent just over US$1 per student) in 1993 for textbooks.12 As in past years, capital repairs and
investment in schools are very limited, representing only about 5 percent of the projected expenditures
for 1993.
23.   Sources of Financing. The centr  government budget is the main source of financing for pre-
university education and has covered 80-90 percent of annual education expenditures since 1989. At
present, local governments have no responsibility for financing education, although their role is under
discussion in the broader context of local government reform.Y3 The second largest source of
financing has traditionally been state enterprises, also centrally budgeted, which finance stipends and
student accommodation for two-year vocational programs and contribute to the costs of pre-school for
children of the parents they employ. These enterprise contributions have been declining in recent
years and by 1991 accounted for only about 6 percent of total. Parents finance part of pre-school
costs, copy books during primary and secondary education and, in some cases, contribute cash or in-
kind support for school initiatives such as student trips, academic prizes, or purchase of school
equipment or supplementary texts. Anecdotal evidence suggests that many families also pay
substantial fees for private tutoring to increase students' competitiveness in examinations.
24.   Budet Process.  Guided by input norms formulated by MOE and MOF for numbers of
students and teachers, individual schools are required to prepare annual budgets. School budgets are
collected by the judet inspectorate and consolidated into a secor budget by the MOE. In practice,
budgeting is a process of incrementalism and non-transparer bargaining, which does not necessarily
ensure equity among districts or individual schools and has iew transparent links between allocation of
resources and school perfornamce. MOE submits its budget to MOF where it is consolidated with
proposals of other agencies, reviewed by the Council of Ministers and forwarded to Parliament for
approval. As a rule, MOF distributes funds to MOE on a quarterly basis, although during the high
inflation and fiscal tightening since 1990, budgets have been reviewed and allocations made on a more
frequent basis. MOE presently conducts a comprehensive monthly budget review, which involves
cumbersome resubmission and aggregation of detailed school level budgets.
M:\ROM\EDUC\SAR\ANNEM.SEC
m The budgt amou o      ally lotd to textbooks has hd to be eased by 35% already this year due to a ecent
wage settleme afte a atrilb by wodke of ateowd pns. bis inas in expadiure will not nessarily
mve tetbook spply or quality.
|   See _:  Dwetaliion ad Local GOVe          Refowm Yelow Cover Repoit, World Bank, EC1IN, 1992.



_42 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 13
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFoRM PROJECr
Table: ENROLLMENT BY EDUCATION LEVEL (1989/90-lM92193)
I1/91        1991/92      1992193
Pre-school                             752,141       742,232      752,063
Primary ([-V)                         1,283,132    1,241,604    1,232,899
Gymnasium (V-VII                      1,447,174    1,397,675    1,339,555
General and technical secondary        995,689       778,420      714,013
Vocational secondary                   365,860       375,303      333,624
Post-secondary vocational               29,225        54,9(7       57,037
University                             192,810       215,226      235,669
Total enrollment                   5,066,031     4,805,367    4,664,860
Source: Ministry of Education, Bucharest
FWilAROM\EDUCUSARITABLE14



- 43 -                                     ANNEX2
Page 9 of 13
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Tabe : SECONDARY HIGH SCHOOLS BY TYPE I/
(1989/90-1991/92)
_                                         199/9190  t99C91                 1991/92
Ty  of Hihh Scho     No. of    Teachers 9 Sutden      No. of    Tachues   Studenl    No. of    Teachers   StudenAl
Schools   v1         Teacher    Scools   31          Teacher    Schoolb   _l         Teacher
Academio              9S        4586        12.5      425       13760       12.6      430        16060      15.4
Industra             642        2868        33.1      453       26407      22.2       448        19437      17.2
Agricultrl           1S0        5836        44.2      123        S3S6      23.5       120        3528       18.7
FMostay               3           -           -        5         141       24.6         S         120       20.7
Medical               27         S89        25.0       27        689       21.6        26         675       17.3
Economs Adm.
and Servics         38         IS45        33.7      47        2302       23.6        SI        2459       23.3
I:forwmion            -           -           -        8         313       34.1         9         342       59.4
Mterology             -            -          -         1         40        18.6        1         54        19.S
PedgogIoal            23         730         7.5       36        1208       8.2        35        IS41        8.4
AxIs                  6          365         4.6       31        904        4.6        34        1412        3.9
Spons                 -           -           -        17        261        18.3       19         576       16.9
MIlitaxy               I                      -        5          174       14.S        8         237       14.0
Theologcal             -           -          -        14         117       18.4       19         183       17.3
Studens withb specid
needs               -                       -        6          59        8.6         4          13       41.8
TOTAL               982        42519       31.6     1198       S1731       19.2      1209      46637       16.6
1l Inlud  finlltie, evening and distance earin stdet.
31 Does n  include vocados insructo  epyd by enpis lked to schools.
I Pothe sd    lyea 1989/9O, da on ighhoo of ossy  etogcer with daabout ari            al high schoob.
P:AROMAUXIcMuARWAKL1 4



- 44 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 13
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Table 3  S"DENT - TEACHER RATIOS (1989/90 - 19923)
1989/90    1990/91     1991/92     1992/93
Pre-School
Enrollment                           835,890     752,141     742,232     752,063
Teachers                              31,293      37,007      36,326      36,447
Student/Teacher Ratio                     27         20          20           21
Primary (I-M
Enrollment                          1,378,976   1,283,132   1,241,604    1,232,899
Teachers                              54,342      61,818      61,048      67,247
Student/Teacher Ratio                     25         21          20           18
Gymnasium (V-Vm)
Enrollment                          1,512,834   1,447,174   1,397,675    1,339,555
Teachers                              84,642     102,047      98,151      96,918
Student/Teacher Ratio                     18          14         14           14
General and Technical Secondary
Enrollment                          1,346,315    995,689     778,420     714,013
Teachers                              34,044X/   51,731       55,013      58,161
Student/Teacher Ratio                    39.5        19          14          12
Vocational
Enrollment                           304,533     365,860     375,303     333,624
Teachers                              34,044       4,209       5,319       5,193
Student/Teacher Ratio                                87          71          64
University
Enrollment                           164,507     192,810    215,226      235,669
Teachers                              14,363      13,127      17,615      18,123
Student/Teacher Ratio               6 6 (day)         14         12           13
8 4 (mcl
evening)
A/ For this year, data on academic, technical and vocational programs were aggregated.
Source: Ministry of Education, Bucharest
M:AROMWEDUCWSARITABLEI4



-45 -                           ANgEX2
Page 11 of 13
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
TaSek4: NUMBER OF SCHOOLS BY EDUCATION LEVEL
(1989/90.-1M/93)
.198n0       198990        198990
Schools          Total         Total         Total
Kindergartens              12108         12528        12595
Prinary ([-IV)              6166         6070          6137
Gymnasium (1-VI[l)          7191         7305          7710
Academic and tedical high
schools                    982          1198
Vocational schools           798          707           717
TOTAL                  27245         27808         27159
Source: Mistry of Education, Bucharest
Pr1.: M:ROEDUCMSA     M1  4



ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 13
- 46 -
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
TABLE5: Govemment-Financed Education Expenditures by Category, 1991 and 1992
(million ale)
1991     % total        1992     % total      1993     % total
(estimated)
Salaries 11                        568a8.619      75.1%   150685.417       74.5%   284665.4      76.7%
Textbooks                            730.412        1.0%    2523.464        1.2%      2765        0.8%
investments and capital repairs     3651.816       4.8%     5867.787       2.9%    16613.7        4.8%
Food                                1650.939       2.2%     4573.964        2.3%     1398         4.1%
Scholarships                         2396.46       3.2%    10877.342       5.4%    19150.2        5.6%
Maintenance and operation           9456.913       12.5%    26949.77       13.3%    27279.4       7.9%
Memo item: US$ miMion equivalent      978.86       1.3%       654.25       0.3%     492.08        0.1%
Total                            75754.019      100.0%   202131.994     100.0%  344948.78     100.0%
1 Includes taxes, social Insurance, and unemployment contribution.
Average exchange rate LeIIUSS: 1991-7.39; 1992-307.95; 199-700 (estimated
Source: Ministries of Finance and Education, Bucharest
File: M:%ROMEDUC%SARATable5.wk1



ANNEX 2
47 -                             Pao' 13 of 13
ROMANIA
EOUCATION REFORM PROJECT
TABLE 6: Government Expenditures on Education by Education Lee
1991-199311
(million lel)
3m      m m mmm                      M========             m inmmrnri             imn       mmmum
Education level                       1991    % total      1992    % total       1993    % total
_______________________________      ----------     ---------     --- ------     ____  _  ---------
TOTAL                             7780&840  100.00%   20926.794   100.0%   354657.770   100.0%
Pre-school                        6927.750      &9%   18251.393       8.7%   30702.000      8.7%
Primary and gymnasium            30734.241     39.5%   78445.925     37.5%  132379.000     37.3%
Secondary general & technical     17727.676    22.8%   40309.319     19.3%   66000.000     1&6%
Vocation education                 1642.445     2.1%   11444.292      5.5%   21439.470      6.0%
Post secondary vocatlonal          186.423      0.2%     625.624      0.3%    2000.000      0.6%
Universitles                      9378616      12.1%   27129.715     13.0%   48035.000     13.5%
Specia education                  4876.108      6.3%   16804.538      8.0%   28576.000      8.1%
Orphanages                        2516.816      3.2%    6588.947      3.1%   18332.000      5.2%
School inspectorates              1398.390      1.86%   2994.257      1.4%    4600.000      1.3%
Other                             2418375       &1%    668.784        &2%    2594.300       0.7%
1/ Average exchange rates for le11USS were 76.39 in 1991, 307.95 In 1992 and an estimated 700 In 1993.
Source: Ministries of Finance and Educatlon
TABLE 7: Govemment Expenditures 1/ per Student by Level
1991-1993
(US$ equivalent) 21
Education Level           1991        1992      1993
Pre-school                 121         80        58
Primary and gymnasium      147         97        74
Secondary general & technical  233     168      132
Vocational swondary        59          99        92
Post-secondary vocational  84          37        50
Universities               637         409      291
M. M =,=  =                      ama ,. ,,       mama ,  m
1/ Does not Include expenditures for special education,
orphanages, and school Inspectorates.
2/ Average exchange rates for leW/US$ were 76.39 In 1991,
307.95 In 1992 and an estimated 700 In 1993.
Source: Ministries of Finance and Education
M:ROM1EDUCkSARITABLES.WK1



- 48 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
National Board for Curriculum and Teacher Training
Stmcture                 
(see also Chart 4)
1.    The National Curriculum and Teacher Training Board (CTB) will be an autonomous body
reporting directly to the Minister of Education. It will be staffed with representatives of all
institutions concerned with the reform (nine members in all), including the MOE Department of
Reform, MOE Department of Pre-University Education, Institute for Education Sciences, CGsa
Personaulutl Didactic (CPDs), inspectorates and teachers. The role of the Board will be to assess the
confonnity of the curricula to the broad objectives of the education reform.
2.    Under the Board, there will be Coordination Groups (CGs) for Arts and Humanities, Maths
and Sciences, and Primary Education. A Coordination Group of curriculum specialists from the
Institute for Education Sciences (IES) will serve as expert resources for the other groups. An IES
staff member will also be appointed as scientific secretary on each of the other CGs. The CGs will
consist of education specialists appointed by the Board and reflecting broad experience in learning
assessment, use of textbooks, teacher training, and curriculum development. Under each CG will be
a cluster of Working Groups (WGs) which will actually prepare the new curricula. Each WG will be
appointed by the CG and will comprise five members who are education specialists from the IES,
teachers, university staff, pedagogical high schools (in the case of primary education), inspectorate
and CPD staff, and a professional with learning assessment expertise (who will be trained under the
Assessment and Examinations subcomponent). There will also be under each CG a WG on Teacher
Tgaining. Of these group members, only the IES staff will be involved full-time in curriculum
development. Group members will need to be drawn from a variety of geographic regions of
Romania.
3     A Curriculum and Teacher Training Service will be organized in the MOE Department of
Retorm to support the administration of the CTB and its working groups. It would consist of three
full-time staff: (a) the head of the service, who will have strong administrative capability and
understanding of educational issues; (b) an office assistant with strong book-keeping skills; and (c) a
secretary who will record scheduling and prepare and disseminate documents.
Process
4.    The Board will set the working guidelines and schedule for curriculum production and
approval for the CGs and WGs. The WGs will prepare curricula. In many cases, the WGs will be
able to base their work on draft curricula already completed in the IES. WGs may organize their
work in a series of regular meetings or through an intensive residential session. The WGs will



49 -ANNE 3
Page 2 of 2
forward their completed work to the CG for review. CGs will assess the curricula from an
interdisciplinary perspective and will ensure coherence of the outputs of the various WGs. The CGs
will submit the curriculum to the CrB for approval, and for final submission and approval by the
Minister of Education.
5.    The approved curriculum will be printed and disseminated to schools throughout the country
and formaly provided to the Textbook Review Board to be used as a basis fbr invitng submissions
for new textbook titles. Seminars to orient teachers and inspectou  to the new curricula will be
held in the CPDs. Each judet will identify a small number of classrooms where the learning
outcomes with the new curriculum would be assessed. Adjustments to the curiculum would be made
on this basis.
M:\ROMUEDUC\SAR\ANNEW.CUR



- 50 -                           ANNEX 4
Page I of S
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECr
National Assessment and Examinations Servhe
Basic Charactgrstics
1.       School examinations, particularly those used for selection within the educational system or
those used as school leaving qualifications, are of paramount importance to learners, parents,
teachers, and to the public at large. Society expects, and has a right to expect, administraive
efficiency, professionalism, and integrity from the examination system. In order for the system to be
seen to be fair, there is a need for "transparency" in the operations of a National Assessment and
Examinations Service (NAES). There is also a need for the service to be accountable for its actions.
2.        Since examinations exert a powerful influence on what happens in the classroom, it is
important that the forms of assessment used are in harmony with the MOE's educational aims and
objectives, and encourage good practice. It is therefore essental that the NAES be structured and
resourced in such a way that it can both contribute and respond to curriculum development initiatives.
3.        The best questions in the world and the most reliable grading procedures mean litde if the
examination papers are not printed properly, if scores are not processed correctly, and if results are
not issued on time. The structure and resources of a national assessment and examinations service
must therefore maximize administrative efficiency. However, the complexity of the examination cycle
means that the best laid plans are often thwarted by unforeseen circumstances. Tbis requires that the
management of the service be capable of finding solutions to problems, often while under great
pressure. They must therefore be allowed flexibility of action.
4.       Improving the quality and complexity of educational assessment in Romania and widening
the scope of its application, will increase costs. In short, effective assessment is an expensive item in
any educational budget. Where examinations are administered from within a Ministry, the true costs
are often hidden. In order to facilitate cost-analysis of existing and proposed schemes of assessment,
a national service should have an independent accounting system.
Institutional Framework
5.        The institutional framework of the proposed NAES in Romania would provide: (a) a high
degree of autonomy; (b) "transparency" with regard to its operation; (c) accountability for its actions;
(d) close relationships with those working on curriculum development (e) close working relationships
with a wide range of institutions and organizations, both government and private; (t) flexibility with
respect to structure and operation; (g) a strong, central facility for handling administrative functions
coupled with an effective regional support structure; and (h) systems for making the most of limited
physical and human resources, and hence, for maximizing cost-effectiveness.



- 51 -                          ANNEX4
Page 2 of 5
6.        In order to provide autonomy, flexibility of action, 'transparencya of operations, and
accountability, the NAES would be established as a parastatal body, i.e., a statutory body in which
the Government has a majority or controlling interest. The NAES would have a governing Board
with representation from a wide range of interested parties.'
Functions
7.        The functions of the NAES would include responsibility for: (a) conducting
examinations; (b) awarding certificates or diplomas to candidates who pass examinations conducted by
the NAES; (c) formulating syllabuses and regulations for examinations; (d) approving or rejecting the
appointment of examiners; (e) arranging for the training of examiners, markers, supervisors,
invigilators, and other persons connected with examinations; (t) carrying out research in examinations
and publishing relevant data; (g) publishing reports on the performance of examinations;
(O) establishing and maintaining appropriate record-keeping systems and archives; and (i) advising any
public or private institution on the development of any system of assessment when requested to do so
(for example, teacher certification).
Costs/financing
8.        The NAES would be responsible for its own budget thereby revealing the true costs of
educational assessment. Such costs will have to be recovered and so the NAES would be empowered
to raise funds by: (a) appropriation by Government from the education budget; (b) charging
examination fees and fees for other services; (c) grants and donations (subject to Ministry approval);
(d) loans (subject to Ministry approval); and (e) sale of examination-related materials e.g., past
papers.
Structure and Staffing
9.        The NAES would have two divisions: (a) Examinations and Assessment Division -
responsible for the development and delivery of each operational scheme of assessment; and
(b) Central Services - responsible for all central services such as accounting, secutity, stock control
and buying, printing, packing, distribution, and for the niaintenance of the building and its services.
The proposed organizational and staffing structures are outlined in Charts A and B.
10.       The NAES would be formally linked to the Ministry of Education through Ministry
representation on the Board. Ihere would also be links through NAES representation on committees
which fall under various Miistry Divisions. Of these, the most important linkages to establish and
maintain will be that with the transitional Assessment Unit of the Ministry and the curriculum
development working groups. Ihese links will be essential if the NAES is to become accepted as a
valuable partner in the field of educational development. In addition, there will be much to gain by
A National Assemn and Examinton Board is being st up now to oversee, guide and coordinate the work of four
specilit Asassmet Worling Grups (AWGs), eacbh resble for an area of related curculum subjects. The AWGs
will work closly with patalle woding gmups in criculum developmaet, teacher training, and textbooks to develop
eamination syllabi, sample question papers and teaches' guides.



- 52 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
valuable partner in the field of educational development. In addition, there will be much to gain by
forging links with assessment agencies in other countries and with international associations concerned
with educational assessment.
Accoimnodation and Equipment
12.      At present, there is no accommodation specifically allocated to examination development
and administration. The only possible exception is a room in MOE which houses the photocopier and
storage cabinets for examination papers. This room is kept locked but has no additional security
measures. Clearly, as the scale of the assessment operation increases, the present accommodation will
prove woefully inadequate. The Project would therefore provide the NAES with accommodation and
equipment designed to match the specific functions of a national assessment service. For reasons of
security, this accommodation should be for the exclusive use of the NAES.
13.      The key features of the new accommodation would be: (a) high security both for the
building as a whole and for sensitive areas within; (b) specialist accommodation and equipmnent for
printing/reprographics, computers, confidential materials production, etc.; (c) large storage areas both
for confidential and non-confidential materials; (d) offices for professional staff; and, (e) meeting
rooms for question paper moderation meetings, syllabus working groups, item-writing sessions, etc.
m:\rom\educ\sAusanx4



ORGANISATIONAI. STRUCTURE FOR THE NAES
NAES: GOVERNING BODY
I
DIRECTOR
I                                  I
DEPUTY DIRECTOR                                                  DEPUTY DIRECTOR
(ADMINISIRATION)                                                 (ASSESSMENT)
- * I     *                                               I              I*        
0         ~~z 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CONTRACT* STAIFF
ITEM WRITERS,
MODERtATORS,
MARKERS. ETC.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
___________                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 



ANNEX 4
- 54 -                          CHARTB
Page 5 of 5
STAFMNG LEVES FOR NAES
POSMON/FUNCnON                                            NUMBER
Direco                                                           I
Deputy Dircos                                                    2
Professional Officers (Subjects)                                 8
Professional Officers (Primary)                                  2
Professional Officers (Teache Certfiaton)                        2
Professional Officer (Records)                                   1
Admm Officers                                                    3
Accountant                                                       1
Assistant Accountant                                             1
Accounts Clerks                                                  2
Personal Assistant (Director) 
Secretary (Assistt Ditos) 
Secretaries (Subject Officers)                                   5
Confidential Typists                                             2
Typists                                                          4
Reprograhics (     )                                             i
Pacwkedespatchers                                                2
Geneal workers (estimated)                                       6
security staff                                                   2
Drivers                                                          2
Cleaners (estimated)                                             6
TOTAL           55



-55 -                           AXS
Page 1 of 4
ROMANA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Occ tonal Standards and Assessment Subcomponent'
Protocol for the Establishment of a Council for Occupat_onal
Standards and Aessment
ARTICLE 1
GENERAL STATEMENT OF AGREEMENT
The r      es of the Government of Romania as well as the organizations of labor and
employers that are signatories to this Protocol hereby establish a Council for Occupational Standards
and Assessment (COSA) to coordinate policy regarding definition of occupational standards and
assessmet in Romania.
The COSA will provide leadership and guidance for the establishment and operation of a Research
and Technical Services Unit (RTSU) which will implement COSA policies and deliver the priority
programs and services defined by COSA.
ARTICLE 2
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE OF COSA AND THE RTSU
That, the process of economic and social development would benefit from the improvement of the
qualifications of the workforce.
That, a system of occupational standards, and related assessment procedures and certification, will be
established in Romania. Such action is necessary to help ensure that the labor force meet
international standards.
That, this action will constitute a step in the direction of development of economic and social life and
will make positive contributions to labor mobility and productivity as well as the transparency of the
labor market with respect labor force qualifications.
That, the objective of COSA wAl be to define procedures, analyze occupations, and define standards
and related assessment criteria for the purposes of improving training programs and deermini
worker qualifications.
I      See Annex 6, pages 4-5 and 8 for a dusipsion of project-financed activities under the COSA



- 56 -                           ANEXS
Page 2 of 4
ARTICLE 3
ESTABLISHMENT AND LOCATION OF COSA AND THE RTSU
COSA will be established by the Ministry of Education in accordance with the provisions of this
Protocol.
COSA will be the Executive Board of the RTSU.
The RTSU will be established by COSA with the support of the Ministry of Education (MOE) in
accordance with the provisions of this Protocol. MOE will select a Host Organization for the RTSU,
in cooperation with COSA. This Host Organization will provide physical facilities and administrative
services for the RTSU and, if outside the MOE, will sign the COSA Protocol and be a non-voting
member of COSA. COSA may, with a two thirds vote, move the RTSU to an alternate Host
Organization should it so desire.
ARTICLE 4
COSA MEMBERSHIP AND OPERATION
COSA will be composed of representatives of Ministries and other government agencies, employer,
and employee (Union) organizations that are recognized as legal persons/entities, are national in scope
and have democratically elected officials.
One third of the votes of the COSA will be allocated to each of the three social partners
(Government, Unions, Employers).
COSA members may be voting and non-voting. Membership is open to any legal person/entity which
ascribes to and signs this Protocol.
In order to gain voting membership status Employer groups must represent 5% of the labor force and
Unions must represent at least 2 % of total registered union membership in Romania.
Detailed policies and working procedures of COSA and the RTSU shall be determined by COSA,
including criteria and identification of occupations for which analysis and standards will be developed.
Criteria include, but are not restricted to: the numbers of workers in the occupation in Ronania, the
number of related trainng programs, occupations essential to the Romanian economy, the demand for
tained workers in the occupation, and the rate of change in an occupation.
RTSU STAFFING AND OPERATION
RTSU staff shall consist of at least 12 full-time professional staff to perfom the functions of:
administration, coordinating development of occupational analyses and assessment products, staff
training, automation, and documentation.



- 57 -                          ANNEXS
Page 3 of 4
Ihe Host organization shall employ RTSU staff. The RTSU Director must be approved by the
COSA, and the Director must approve the remainder of the RTSU staff nominated by the Host
°Oraiton.
The Director of RTSU will report dire*fy the chairperson of the COSA on policy matters, and sall
cooperate with the management of the Hlost Organization on administrative maters.
The RTSU shall perform research and provide technical services under the direction of the COSA.
Ihese services shall include:
(a)    Development of standard procedures, to be endorsed by COSA, for occupational
analysis, assessment and certification.
(b)    Provision of training and consulting services to assist COSA members and others to
use the standard procedures in development of occupational standards, assessment
criteria, and undertaking testing/certification programs.
(c)    Forming technical writing teams which will develop occupational analyses and
assessment criteria.
(d)    Developing criteria and principles for evaluating organizations and individuals to
accredit them to develop tests from COSA standards and award COSA Certificates.
(e)    Establishing and operating a document center containing international and local
standards, and records of individuals receiving COSA certificates.
(t)    Coordinating reproduction and distribution of the result of occupational analyses,
assessment and certification in printed, magnetic and other forms.
(g)    Preparing annual and longterm work plans for approval by COSA.
(h)    Performing other tasks within the scope of this Protocol as assigned by COSA.
ARTICLE S
FINANCING AND RESOURCES FOR COSA/RTSU OPERATIONS
The Host Organization shall provide RTSU with the necessary facilities and services in accordance
with an agreement to be reached with COSA.
COSA and the RTSU may accept financing to support operations from public and private sources
from within and outside Romania.
COSA may establish procedures to sell RTSU products and services, with the understanding that costs
to COSA members would be limited to cost-recovery.



-                                AB-     5
Page 4 of 4
COSA will establish membership fees, both cash and in-kind, to support RTSU operational on a long-
term basis.
COSA members agree to provide techical specialists, on short-term assignments, to the RTSU to
develop job standards and assessment criteria with the understanding that the RTSU would finance all
direct costs involved (travel and per diem).
Initial investment fluancing for equipment, materials and RTSU staff (for approximately five years)
may be provided through a World Bank Loan.
ARTICLE 6
COSA CERTIFICATION
COSA certificates are to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of this Protocol and
procedures endorsed by COSA, and shall be referred to by the generic name of COSA Certificate.
COSA certificates, on their own or as complementing other udploas and certificates, shaU be
awarded and considered as reliable evidence of occupational competence.
COSA certificates shall not bear equivalence to any diploma or certificate awarded or approved by the
Ministry of Education unless otherwise approved unilaterally by the Ministry of Education.
COSA certificates shall not bear any legal status with respect to wages or salaries or any other
conditions of employment.
This Protocol is signed by the following individuals on the  day of   month of   year.
m:\rom\educ\sar\annex5.pro



- 59-                                 ANNEX6
Page 1 of 3
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Textbook Approval and Selection Mechanism
Composition
1.    The National Textbook Review Board will be an autonomous body direcdy responsible to and
appointed by the Minister of Education. The Board wiUl comprise: (a) a President, preferably a
senior academic with a wide experience of education and general administration; (b) four Board
members who are experienced teachers in pre-university education; (c) an international technical
adviser; and (d) a secretariat of two persons. Officials of the Ministry of Education, Institute of
Education Science or members or employees of publishing companies would not be eligible to
participate on the Board. The President and members of the Board will be appointed by the Minister
of Education for three-year terms after the posts have been announced in the press and suitable
applicants have been interviewed. (Drafts for all vacancy announcements have been prepared and
agreed with the MOE.)
2.    Subject Specialist Panels will be organized to support the Board. These will be organized to
sLipport proposals for a given subject and series of grades (for example, one panel might cover
Romanian language, grades 1-8). Panels will generally consist of five members, who will be drawn
from practicing teachers, educational researchers or other specialists in the relevant subjects. Their
terms would be for two years. Appointment of Panel members will be made by the Board following
public announcement of the posts and personal interviews. Each panel, after selection, will elect its
own chairperson.
Eunctions
3.    The role of the Board will be to obtain proposals for new and revised school textbooks from
publishers, to evaluate these proposals, to decide on those which are to be approved for use and to
ensure that the selected books are published according to the accepted specifications and timetable.
Specifically, the Board will: (a) decide on the list of textbooks which will be required; (b) announce
the request for submissions of textbook proposals; (c) fiaize and distribute as required the technical
regulations for submissions; (d) receive and document submissions; (e) appoint and oversee the work
of the Specialist Subject Panels; (t) make a preliminary assessment of the publishing submissions,
ensuring that they meet the basic requirements for selection; (g) receive and check those submissions
recommended by the Subject Panels; (h) inform publishers, schools and the inspectorate of the results
of the textbook submissions and issue the list of recommended textbooks; and (i) liaise as necessary
with publishers and the inspectorate over the arrangement of promotional exhibitions in the judets.
Working Guidelines
4.    The Board will meet as needed, probably at least three times in the first year of the project.
Work would be carried out in the followi  phbus



-60-                                ANNEX
Page 2 of 3
First Phase-Local competitive bidding procedures, acceptable to the Bank, will be followed
for advertising and procurement. These procedures will allow for a widely published and
open competitive bidding process in which foreign firms will be eligible to participate, either
independently or under joint venture arrangements with Romanian publishing houses.
Regulations for publishing submissions will be finalized and a meeting will be held by the
Board for publishers who may be interested in publishing school textbooks. The new review
system would be explained to publishers. A roster of interested publishers would be prepared
and thenceforth kept informed of relevant information. Additional publishers and authors
seeking publishers could be added to the roster at any time. Subject specialist panels will be
organized.
Secod Phase-The Board will announce the details and timing of the publishing submission
process, both in the press and in a mailing to the roster of publishers. A second open
meeting with publishers will be held to distribute the technical regulations and curricula. (A
draft Invitation to Submit Textbook Proposals has been prepared and agreed with the
Govermnent). A period of at least seven months will be provided for authors and publishers
to develop materials.
ITird Phae-The Board will receive the submissions, log them and vet them to ensure that
they meet the basic requirements of the technical regulations. Proposals whh A pass this stage
will be forwarded to the relevant subject panel, with evidence of the names of publishers and
athors removed from the submitted materials.
Fourth Phase-The Board will liaise as necessary with the publishers and the inspectorates in
the judets over the organization of promotional exhibitions. The publishers will be
responsible for preparing all materials. The Board will arrange with inspectorates the venues
of exhibition.
Technical Procedures
5.    The Board will specify the requirements which must be met by any publisher wishing to
submit a textbook for selection onto the approved book list. Each proposal which may be made for
one book, a series of books in one subject or several different books must contain the following: (a) a
Textbook Proposal Form, with basic information on the publisher and author; (b) technical production
details for each book and the proposed price; and (c) sample materials. Specifics on these
submissions have been prepared and agreed with MOE.
Method of Evaluation
6.    Technical Evaluation. Each proposal will be opened at a full meeting of the Board at a
publicly announced date and time. The Subject Panel will recommend to the Board the proposals to
be approved, ideally three, which will be added to the List of Approved Textbooks. The factors to be
considered by the Subject Panels in technical evaluation are: (a) conformity to the curriculum;
(b) methodology and pedagogical suitability; (C) level of language; (d) accuracy and validity of
content; (e) presentation and design (page layout, size and style of typeface, general readability,
spacing, margins); (t) quality and relevance of illustrations (standard of illustration, style of
illustration, relationship to the text, acUraCy Vse of color); (g) test and exercise materials used in the



- 61 -
ANNW6
Page 3 of 3
text; (h) support materials if relevant; and (i) originality or creativity of approach. It will be a
requirement that content of all approved core textbooks should be valid and accurate in so far as they
address environmental Issues and that the textbooks contain no racial, religious or gender bias. Each
of the above criteria will be weighted. Tne maximum total points would be 80. Each proposal would
be evaluated according to these criteria and any proposal which does not total at least 65 points and a
minimum of 50% for each of the criteria would not be considered.
7.    Price Evaluation. Ihe Board will undertake a price evaluation. The textbook technical
regulations (para. 5) will have a specified price range for each textbook. The low end of the range
will represent 20 points and the high end 0 points. The price of each submission will be compared to
price range and the number of points calculated accordingly.
8.    The points obtained from the technical evaluation added to the points obtained for the price
evaluation, and the three proposals having achieved the highest total scores would be approved.
Publishing Su
9.    In order to help publishers to develop the new core textbooks which are needed in schools,
the MOE, through the project, will pay for the start-up costs of production of those proposals which
are approved. Costs eligible for repayment in stages are manuscript development, illustrations for
text and cover, typesetting costs, preparation of layout and design.
Promotional Exhibitions
10.   During the first term of the school year, textbook exhibitions will be held in each judet. Each
publisher whose books are on the approved list will be obliged to have available by October 1 printed
copies of the book or books in their final form, or printed final proofs of the books without covers.
The MOE will pay the publishers' cost of producing copies for exhibition. Thirty copies will be
required for each judet. Of these, 10 copies will be retained at the judets for consultations by
teachers, while 20 will be available for loan to schools for more detailed examination.
ADproval Contract
11.   Each book selected by the Board for inclusion on the Approved Textbook List will be the
subject of a contract between the MOE and publisher which will serve to confirm details of
production and delivery for exhibition and price. A draft contract has been prepared and is being
reviewed by the Bank. The quoted unit price of the books will be valid for the first year only,
although the term of approval for use in schools will be five years. To remove the price contingency
risk from the supplier, the contracts will include a price adjustment clause based on an official
indexing system.
Pile: Mm\educ\saAannea6.book



- 62 -ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 8
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Seeondtar Technical/Vocaflnal Tralinfu:
Ra6kouds Rehrm Strate and lmplemeWnta
Trends in OECD Countries
1.    Several trends have emerged in secondary level vocational training. First, vocational training
is in general being delayed until upper secondary school, beyond age 16. Seownd, the lines between
youth and adult training are becoming blurred, and opportunities are expanding to allow adults to
upgade skills and change carees as needed.  ird, the number of specialties is being reduced at the
secondary level. Fourth, at the end of compulsory education (usually age 16, approximately grade
10), students may continue to secondary school graduation or leave and enter an adult training
environment.
2.    While there is no one model for secondary vocational training, ree general approaches can
be found. The schooling model (as in the U.K.) provides secondary educadon that is primarily
academic in nature, and technicalvocational training is left to enterprises or post-secondary
instiuto. In this model, some career exploration activities may occur In secondary school. The
lmubmnixe model (which exists in many states in the U.S. and to some extent in Frince) provides
matriculation combined with general occupatonal programs providing a base for post-scondary
specialized training, higher education, or job-entry. In the dUd system (as in Germanr;), a large
propordon of 16-year olds join apprentice training and spend the majority of time "ngaged in on-job-
training in enterprises with related theory in schools. The first several years of these programs are
increasingly organized around broad occupational families, as opposed to specialized training.
Current System in Romania
3.    Vocational training for youth after grade 8 in Romania occurs in three basic settings:
(a)    Fgur-year secondy technical high schools enrolling approximaely half of secondary
age students, resulting in seondary school completion c@rtificate with a specialization
in one of about 130 specialties. Approximately one-third of a student's time is spent
in vocational classes.
(b)   Two and daeye  vocational schools enrolling approximately one quarter of
students. These programs do not provide a secondary school completion certificate.
Approximately two-thirds of a student's time is spent in vocational training, most of it
working in an enterprise.



- 63-                              ANNEX7
Page 2 of 8
(c)    Alternative comlementW     s Ihools enrolling about eight percent of students. These
are often attached to enterprises and cooperatives and do not provide a secondary
school completion certificate.
Ka Inssue in Romanian Youth Training
4.    There is little or no formal vocational counseling occurring either before students enter
secondary school or during secondary school. The current system causes large numbers of students to
make very specialized vocational decisions too early in life. Existing vocational training profiles do
not match emerging demands of the economy, and existing facilities and curricula are outdated.
5.    Three factors are having a profound effect on the education system, particularly secondary
level vocationi training. The concept of freedom of choic in a democratic society demands that
students be provided with better information to make informed career decisions. The increasing
levels of technology will require youth to have higher levels of general education. Raidly changing
technlogy wil require that youth have a much broader occupational orientation on entering the labor
market in order that they can maximize opportunities for career mobility throughout life.
Reform Strategy in Romania
6.    Given the history and specialized nature of existing training programs in Romania, the
democratic and economic pressures being brought to bear on the educational system, and the nature of
OECD experience, a multifaceted strategy is emerging. First, it is the intention that the period of
compulsory education be extende' to age 16 (end of grade 10) and that education during this period
stress general education as opposed to specialized vocational training. Second, education in existing
academic high schools and vocational schools, particdularly during grades 9 and 10, would be
buttressed with new career counseling programs to help maximize student choices. Third, specialized
occupational training as it is now known would be eliminated and replaced with training in general
dusters of occupations, beginning at grade 11. Finally, the alternative and complementary and two
and three vocational programs would be gradually eliminated from the secondary school environment,
and these services would increasingly be provided though other channels, including community based
adult training programs.
Reform mplementation
7.    The Government intends to launch implementation of its strategy for restructuring secondary
technical/vocational education through three priority activities: (a) developing curricular frameworks
for a revised form of secondary vocational 1/ education that will promote informed career choice and
increase occupational mobility, and to implement this new form of education in pilot schools in each
judet; (b) initiation of new vocational teacher training programs in five university centers to prepare
'MThe team -vocationa is used deliberately, and at the request of the MOE, to indicate that youth
will receive a broad orientaion to work and groups of vocations. In Romia, the term -technical educatioa is
interpe_td as provision of specializd knowledge of a mechanical or scientific sulject, which is not the agreed
objective of seooondy education in most OECD cotntries, or of the proposed resting in Romania.



- 64 -                             ANNEX7
Page 3 of 8
instructors to teach theory and practice courses in the restructured secondary schools; and
(c) improvement of the cost-effectiveness of youth and adult training programs, and increase labor
force mobility and productivity, by establishing the institutional capacity to update gccupational
standards and assessment procedures in 300 priority occupations.
8.    During the development of the Education Reform Project, the Government, with Bank
assistance, set specific objectives, established implementation plans, and estimated resource
requirements for the activities outlined above. It was originally envisaged that Bank fnancing would
support each of these activities. In December 1993, the Commission of the European Union
(EU/PHARE) and the Romanian Departnent of European Integration indicated that EU grant funds
would finance the pilot schools and vocational teacher training activities. The activity on occupation-al
standards is being financed as a subcomponent of the proposed project (see SAR paras. 2.13-2.16). It
is envisaged that this subcomponent will provide an important underpinning for the parallel activities
to be financed by the EU and for adult training programs to be developed under a separate Bank-
financed Employment and Social Protection Project with the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection.
Both the EU- and Bank-financed activities would be coordinated by a common Project Coordination
Unit that is being established under the Education Reform Project (see SAR para. 2.27).
Parallel Project of the Commission of the European Union (EUtPHARE)
9.    Curriculum Development and Pilot Secondary Vocational Schools (see organization chart,
Annex 7, page 6). This subcomponent would assist the MOE and local schools to shift away from
the existing system of vocational training in grades 9-12 with 132 separate specialties toward
secondary education based on 15-20 broad families of occupations (e.g., agriculture, electronics,
communication, business administration, sales and marketing, hotel and tourism, mechanical power)
beginning in grade 11. Modules to develop "entrepreneurship skills" would be developed for
integration into each curriculum. The subcomponent would be developed in three overlapping phases.
Phase one (Project Year One) would involve a review by Romanian specialists of secondary school
programs in at least three countries, and, in cooperation with an international review panel, detailed
definition of policies and procedures for up to 20 families of occupations that would comprise the
framework of the new curricula. Pbase two (Project Years One and Two) would identify curriculum
development teams from about 20 developmental secondary schools and teacher training institutions
and would establish advisory committees comprising technical specialists, employers, employee
representatives, and line ministry staff in the occupational groups concerned. Curriculum would be
written for each occupational family following procedures developed under Phase 1.2 The related
requirements for general education and entrepreneurship competencies would be defined.
Specifications would also be developed for equipment, materials, and facilities renovation that would
be needed to implement the new programs.
10.   Phase three (Project Years Two to Five) would support implementation of the new programs.
Personnel from the developmental schools, in cooperation with university centers (mainly
2  The developmental schools would be institutions in close proxuimty to the univerity centes (polytenics)
that are involved in the project so that facilities of both the developmetal school and university center will be
available as bases for the curriculum writing work.



- 65-                             ANNEX7
Page 4 of 8
polytechnics) and the CPDs, would provide training and on-site as: istance to pilot schools (a total of
10/12 curricular programs in three to four schools in each judet, for a total of approximately 490
programs). Pilot schools would be able to choose the curricular programs of highest priority in their
local conditions. Assistance would include: orientation sessions for staff of pilot schools; selection of
materials and equipment from standardized lists for each curriculum; provision of advice on facility
refurbishment; and technical support during equipment installation and program start-up. The Project
would provide financing for related facility renovation, purchasing/installing equipment, and
educational resource materials. In parallel with the implementation of these programs, the curricula
In generd subjects wfll be revised under the proposed Education Reform Project (see SAR para. 2.5).
Career counseling services would be introduced through the Employment and Social Protection
Project being developed with the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection.
11.   For this activity, the EU would finance consultants to assist with development and
implementation of curriculum, short-term fellowships abroad for key curriculum development staff
and lead instuctors in pilot schools, rehabilitation of facilities, equipment, books and materials. This
actvity would be Implemented by the MOE Department of Pre-University Education, General
Division for Pre University Education, with the support of international technical assistance. The
Division would allocate about ten full-time staff to coordinate development and implementation of the
occupational curriculums in 15-20 occupational areas in pilots schools throughout the country.
12.   The Vocational Teacher Trainini activity (see chart, Annex 6, page 7) would involve five
university centers that would revise their programs to support the new secondary vocational school
curriculum and to prepare instructors that would teach both theory and practice in the restructured
secondary schools. Romanian specialists first would review approaches to vocational technical teacher
training programs in at least three countries. They would then write new pedagogical curriculum and
20 occupational curricula for vocational teacher training, in cooperation with the 20 developmental
secondary schools and occupational advisory commitees (described above in para. 9). The new
curricula would be implemented in the university centers (polytechnics) of Bucharest, Cluj, lasi,
Ploesti and Timisoara (See Map). From these curricula, the national assessment and certification
sandards for vocational teachers would be revised.
13.   Under this activity, the EU would finance technical assistance to assist with the development
and implementation of curricula, shortterm fellowships abroad, financing for related facility
renovation, purchase and installation of equipment, and educational resource materials for pedagogical
programs in all five university centers and for 20 occupational curricula.
14.   Tbis activity would be coordinated by the Department of Pre-University Education, Division
for Pro-University Education (DOP) of the MOE with the support of international technical assistance,
and in full cooperation with the Division for Teacher Training within the Department and the General
Division of Higher Education within the Department of Higher Education. The pOP would establish
a working group of all parties involved, including representatives from the five polytechnics which
will implement the new teacher training curricula. The five universiy centers would be responsible
for development and installation of a common pedagogical curriculum, the 20 occupational curricula,
as well as development of national assessment and certification standards, following procedures agreed
with the working group and in cooperation with the 20 secondary school development teams and
Occupational Advisory Committees.



- 66 -                          ANNEX7
Page 5 of 8
Blank-Pinanced SuComponent on Occunational Standards
15.   The QOccuat   Standards and AssessM  subcomponent (see organization chart, Annex 7,
page 8) of the proposed Bank-financed operaion would help ensure that curricula and testing in
youth, adult and enterprise-based training programs are well-founded on knowledge and skills used in
the workplace and comparable to practices in most OECD countries. Ihis subcomponent would
define and update occupational standards and certification practices. A Council for Occupational
Standads and Assessment (COSA) would be established. COSA would be a standing tripartite body
of representatives of employers, employees and relevant government agencies. Under COSA would
be a Research and Technical Services Unit (RTSU) of about 12 professionals to guide the
development of occupationalrjob standards and assessment materials. These resources would be made
avaiable to Romanian employers, employment and training agencies, schools and universities, and
unions as tools for increasing the quality of training programs, worker productivity, and worker
mobility both within and outside Romania.
16.   COSA would define the general policies and work program to guide development of
occupationaljob standards and assessment products, including the development of cognitive and
performance test item data banks. A documentation and records center would be developed to obtain,
ste and diseminate occupational standards and assessment materias. This ceter would house an
auomated databe to access materials on international standards and assessment tools, act as a
repository of materials, and maintain records on occupational certificates issued by COSA. Detailed
procedures would be development for RTSU staff to use in ensuring the quality of occupational and
assessment products. Training matals would be developed to use with the teams that will be
writng and reviewing the stamdards, and in orienting COSA members and others to the availability
and use of the standards in developing curricula, assessment and certification programs. The Project
would provide for the development and use of occupational standards and assessment products in
about 300 occupations. The Project would also establish a network of local consultants who would be
available to assist and certify local agencies that wish to develop written and performance tests from
the test item data bank.
17.   The Bank would finance technical assistance (24 months foreign and 1,180 months local) to
assist with development and implementation of COSA and its staff, short-term fellowships for key
COSA member and staff (18 months), local training financing for direct costs (e.g., travel and per
diem) for writing and review teams, equipment and materials for the COSA staff unit.
18. This subcomponent of the Education Reform Project would be implemented by the RTSU
Operatng under the direction of the newly formed COSA. TMe RTSU would be established at a host
institution nominated by the MCOE Secretary of State for Reform and agreed with COSA. The MOE
would sign an agreement with the host institution, if it is outside the MOE, to ensure that project
agreements are followed. If outside the MOE, the host institution would be required to sign the
COSA protocol (see Annex 5) as a non-voting member. Ihe host institution would receive goods and
services financed by the project, including resources for up to 12 RTSU prOmssional staff to
implement project activities. This institution would provide administrative support for the RTSU with
the understanding that the selection of the RTSU Director would be subject to the endorsement by the
COSA, and the RTSU director would report to the COSA on policy matters.



- 67-                         ANNEX
Page 6 of 8
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Organizational Structure for Curriculum Develo_ment and Implementation of
Pilot Secondary Vocational Schools
|MEnistry of Education
PHASE ONE - PROJECT DESIGN
Department of Pre-Univ. Education
Division of Pre-Univ. Education
Working Group
Ministry of Education
Institute for Educational Sciences
Developmental Schools
P  TSEWO - CURIULM      L
Bucharest      Cuid           Iasi           Ploesti        Timisoara
Schools        Schools        Schools        Schools         Schools
Advisory       Advisory       Advisory       Advisory        Advisory
Committees     Committees     Committees     Committees     Committees
Univ. Center   Univ. Center  Univ. Center   Univ. Center   Univ. Center
.41
PEASE THREE - CURRICULUM IMPLENENTATION
Casa Personalului Didactic
3-4 Schools in each judet
10-12 new programs per judet



- 68 -                         ANNEX7
Page 7 of 8
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Oruanizational Structure for Im_lementation of Vocational
Teacher Training Reform
Ministry of Education
Department of Pre-University Education     Department of Higher Education
Division of Pre-Universaty Education       Division of Higher Education
Division for Teacher Training
Working Groui
Division of Pre-University Education
Division of Teacher Training
Division of Higher Education
Five University Center
CURRICULUM DESIGN AND IMPLIMENTATION
Bucharest      Clui           Iasi           Ploesti        Timisoara
5 Dev.         5 Dev.         5 Dev.         5 Dev.         5 Dev.
Schools        Schools        Schools        Schools         Schools
4 Advisory     4 Advisory     4 Advisory     4 Advisory     4 Advisory
Committees     Committees     Committees     Committees     Committees



- 69-                        ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 8
ROXAN1A
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Or;anizational Structure for ImDlementation of the Occupational
Standards and Assessment Subcomponent
|Ministry of Education|
l
Council for Occupational                       Host Institution for
Standards and Assessment 4                  b  Research and Technical
(COSA)                                         Service Unit (RTSU)
1 _________________________________________ RT____U_ Staff
(1)
Writing Teams for Standards
Writing Teams for Test Items
m:%run\edaarXan?.vac



Educato Reftm Project
Tabe 1. NEW CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT /a
Detaid Cost
Quanettes                   UIft                        3ase Cost
Unit    WS   95   W 917  97U999  Total   Cost  9SON                  96U9    96197   97198   98199    Totil
hebnent Cods
A.. ESTABLS:H STRUCTURE
I. Appont CT3 imembes
Exper (abmred)              mont        1      t                             2    tS.00      15       15       -            -           30
T1rln(abroe fb              mont        4       -                            4     6.00      24        -       -        -       -       24
Subtotd                                                                                        39       is                                54
IV. CO and WG SpecaIts
Tral    (abre/              month       8                                    a -  8  6.00    48        *       *            -           48
v. CTB assIdence to WG        vaha_                                                            20        5                                25
Subtotl                                                                                         107       2D                        -      127
AZ. ADMIN STRUCTURE
LSC - 
Trl (abrod)                 mon         2              -      -       -      2     6.00      12                -        -               12
L SIC btlUtl
Funtu                       vah                                                              20            -            -               20
Equipmt                     vahu                                                             50        -       -                       s50
oher male                   vu                                                                5        5       5       5        5       25
Subtota                                                                                        75        5       5       5        5       95                 -J
IL WO Equpmnt
Eqipmt                      vwue                                                             10       5        5        -               20
Subtotal                                                                                         97       10      10        5       5      127
A. DEVELOP CURRICUlA
LI Produce flr, draft
PerdlTrael Cosd             Vaue                                                            200     300      400     100             1.000
AA. IAPLEMENT CURRICUA
L Disiut Ne Cuwricula
Pthih                       V*1                                                             100     300      300     300      300    1,300
L Sunnas on new currIcula
Trin (ocal)                 v*lue                                                            10       S0      S0      9         -      200
DeonStatn Equpment          value                                                                     10       5       5        -      20
Sublotal                                                                                       10       60      56       95              220
Subttdl                                                                                         110      360     356      395     300  1,520
Totdal hweient Costs                                                                              514      690     765      500     305    2.774
Reurrent Costs                                                                                                                                                    - 
Icementl Recurent Costs
*U SIC t _pi. 
Staff taais                 value                                                             3        3       3       3        3       16
Totdl RecWuen Cods                                                                                  3        3       3        3       3       16
Tol                                                                                                St7     &        268     50       30B    2,790 6
~a Cos bbe oute nubew  oowespon  to aces od in the projed  abixfound i nft POM. As some adiies require no fin , te numbers may nd be co o.
lb 2 pesns. 2 moh each.
4 pen for 2 mort each.



Education Retom Poe
Tabl 2. TEACHER TRAII  to
Detad Costs
(US$ MIN
Qunn                                                     OAB" Cost
Urnt   996   969    96197   971399   919    Total Unit Cost 9496  9JI            96197   97/9     et"    Tot.l
h_we tCosts
IL1. PRE-SERVICE TEACHER
TRAII
L Prepae Gtddeln
Eepets (abmt                 month        4        2                       -       6   15.00       60      30                -        *      90
Trainln (abf"d)lb             monh        6        4                               o 10    600     36      24                                60
Subtotal                                                                                             96      54       --                      150
v. Reorgan  Secona y
Teacher Trainn
Expets (abroad)              month                 2               -       -       6   15.00       60      30        .                -      90
Tanig (abro  ic              month        6        4               -              10    6.00       36      24                              60
Subtotal                                                                                             96      54        -       -        - _ S0
Subota                                                                                                192     108        *       -              300
B.2. DEVELOP ADAPTED
TRAN     PROGRAMS
lv. Organke Training Course
Trainn(abrod)                month        12      12           -           -      24    6.00       72      72        -       -        -     144
v. Prepar ln4-ervce
Training Prorna
E*et(abroed)                 month         1       1                              2   1500        15      15                         -      30
vL Teae Gukds
Printin of Teacder Gukies     vale                                                                  -             300      200        -    500
vDl. Eqtdp CCDs
Equipment                     value                                                               300     204        -       -              504
Oper" Materials               value                                                                 6       6       6        6        6      30
Equipment for Trial Schoos    value                                                                36      36                         -      72
Subtotal                                                                                            342     246       6        6        6     606
Ix. Equip ES Lab
Equipen                       value                                                                 3      2S      12        -        -      40
OteMa Uterias                 value                                                                 2       2       2        2        2      10
Subtotal                                                                                              5      27      14        2        2      50
L Train Trainers
Partipat Costs /d             value                                                                 -              36       36       36     108
xi. Teacher Training Qudets)
Equipment                     value                                                                       SW 500           400             1,400 .
Motalee                                                                                             434     860      8S6     644       44   2.838   5  6



IL3. ASSESMENUT
L Assesmnnaw Trfanint
Equipment hudal                            .       -I-            41        .     41    8.00        -                -     328        -     328
bindbua                       unt          -       -       1       -               1   20.00        -              2D        -        -      20
Expent (abroed)               nth          -      24       -       -              24   15.00              360 D                       -     360
Empe*esIoaci)                 mnth                36      36       -              72    0.40               14      14        -        -      29
Subtotba                                                                                              -    374       34      328              737
B DEVELOP NEW
TMCHNOLOGYLAS
L Tradn Lab Staff
Tralnlg (abroec               nxmxh       10      10      10       -        -     30    6.00       60      eo      60                       1S0
E*eEts (abae)                 nmonth      2        2       2       -               6   15.00       30      30      30                 .      90
Seminars                     eeminar       I       I       I       *       -       3   20.00               20_   20         .         -      60
Subtboal                                                                                            110     110     110                 -    330
dL Eqtup Lab
Comptrp s                      unt        10       -       5       -        -     15    7.00       70              35                 -     106
Iv. ResowreCeneer
Sodtiwae                      value                                                                10       5       5        .               20
Periodicals                   value                                                                 2       2       2                 -       6
Noierw                        vaue                                                                  0       0       0                         I_  1
Subkttd                                                                                              12       7       7        -               27
v. Desgn Sodlr
EpIets iooal                  monxh      60       20      20       -       -    100    0.40        24       8       8                 -      40
Empsrts(abros                 month       2        1       1       -               4   15.00       30      1 5     1I        -               60
Subtt                                                                                                54      23      23                .100
vL Tran Technkins
TII*t(ODcOl)l                 month       3        -               -               3    0.16        0                                  - 0
Subtotal                                                                                              247     140     175        .              562
U.. COMPUTERS IN
PILOT SCHOOLS
L Worksops
Trahlnlg(0                   semir        9        9       9                -     27    2.40       22      22      22                 -      66
11 Equip Pilod Schools
Com    & Rdnled
Equpmt/fl                   2ushool      10       -       -       -              1000/school    700        .        -                -     700
Subktod                                                                                               722      22      22        -        -     765
Totalinesent Costs                                                                                    1,594   1,504   1,087      972       44   5,202
Recutte Cost
_wnt Code
Ovw
Asessment Trani /h            ve                                                                   25      25      25        -        -      75
Lob Staf>
LocalSalas                    year        12      12      12            -         36    1,20       14      14      14        .        -      43
Maitain                       vaJue                                                                 I       I       I                         4
_ubt-x                                                                                               16 _         16  16                       47
Subotd                                                                                                 41      41      41                       122



hwc_msntd Recuren Codt
Lab sunE
Sadla                            Year        13      18       18                        49      1.20      16       22       22                          59
Mteial                          Value        13      18       18                        49      1.2D      I6       22       ?2        -         - 59
Subtotal                                                                                                    31      43. _   118
Tobl RecumOt Costs                                                                                              72 84    84 --239
Totd                                                                                                           1.666    1,588    1.171     972        44    5.441
a Cost b  out  numbe    corepos tobacv   ised in the prct matr b und I th POM. As some acves reque no incin, outine numbers nay not be consecuive.
5 trIps, 2 mnt each
cStrips, 2mmohs each.
W   5 pere   3S 3 detsfor10dap.
be Projectors, duplba...
V 3 tehfIin, one monih each.
Ig 1 mom, 10 comput. 2 plte.. software x 10 schoow (2 abs each)
th Overhead e       ay  cde. e.g.: costs reed to project mange_met, upport for
dleelntl  ofteachng athils _otaeAashoec.
4 .t



Education Reon Project
T       S. ASSESSMENT & EXAMINATONS Ia
Deb Coats
(Us$ 00)
_ _      _       _ _          ___                                            BaseCoo
Unt    04196    916   967   97193   9IBS    Tota   Unit Cost  "9              969    9697    971        99      TOt
bivewCods
CA. ASSSTANCE TO BOARD
E*efte (abod                    vae                                                                        20      20       20      20       20      100
ONwuppt            t            vale                                                                        3       3        3       3        3       15
8zdtoW                                                                                                       23       23      23       23      23      115
Cl.EXAM ADMUIQSIRAn
I Tran Subject SpecieNts
Twln (S"oAd)                  month          18      30      12                *      60       6.00     106    10        72                 -      60
Tind"  (abroadla hmxnt                        6       3        -       -       -       9       6.00      36       18       -        -       -       54
E2peets (abd)                 Imonh           -       a       3       3               12      15.00              90       45      45                180
Epers (dmn  Id               2w_ec                    1       1        - I             2       7.50               8        8        ;       -       15
Bds                              e                                                                        -       10      10 10    10              40
Compt                         laptop         2        1       1        1       -       5       7.00      14       7        7       7        -       35
Talnl ngc/ le                 onal            *       I       I        1               3       0.16       -      0         0       0      -0
S1btotal                                                                                                  156      313     142       62      10--  64
U. DeoIp Local Capacy
Equlpnlev/Metululs           Value                                                                       3       13       5       10      10      41
Vehicles                      mldbus                  1        -                       1      25.00       -       25                -       -       25
Comptos                      delop                    I                                I -  -  1  7.00            7        -        -       -       7
Eperts(eab                    month         1.5       3       3        3       3    13.5      15.00      23      45       45      45       45     203
Expeft Qocal)                 montr         4.5       9       9       18      18    58.5       0.40       2       4        4       7        7      23
TIn( ocad)                   seminar          1       2       2        4       4      13       6.25       6       13      13       25      25      81
Subtobta                                                                                                   34      106      66       87      B7     380
Iv. MeeopTeachrudes
Deskad ppubL "ne uqm*                         -       5        -               -       5       7.00       -      35        -        -       -      35
Pduon f Gukes                 value                                                                       -              105        -              105
E*s  (abad)                   monh            -       2       2        -               4      15.00       -      30       30        -       -      60
Subtotd                                                                                                     -      65      135        -    --       200
v. Assi Training itiun
Eqerts (abmdIf               2veRe            -       3        -       -       -       3       7.50       -      23        -        -       -      23
s*wl                          vak_e                                       *I                                                  -_            -       I
Sutotal                                                                                                     -       24       -        -       -      24   e
Sutobal                                                                                                     192      507     343-    149       97 IN 1. 
CS. PRIORTY SUBJECTS                                                                                                                                         t  m
L Syllab  Reo Ie
Expe,t (dbd                    month          3                                        3      15.00      45        -                        -      45   o oo
EfpertsQocal                  monfth         12       -        -       -              12       0.40       5                                         5    "
Subtotal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 50I                                                 - 5
tJl



L Print Now tyhbl lb
Ep ocn montt.                                        24      24       12      12      72       0.40       -      10       10       6        5      2
T,alh"gocaI                  smb              -       -       4       4                8 8     625-               -       25      25               50
Subttabl                                                                                               "    -      10       35      30        5      79
Empets (ab                    monrh           -               3       3                a 6    1t.00       -        -      45      45        .      90
Emesooal)                     morn-                   -      36      38        -      72       0.40          -     -      14      14      -        29
-            59              119
Subtotd                                                                                                      50       10      94      89        5     247
C.L EXAMNATION AGCY
liv. Prepratlan of Pruie
Ar_&m9btu  Se8ie              vakw                                                                        -       20       -        -       -      20
Clti Wod8                     vsk2e                                                                                                         -     299
8pWAbrm Sym                   vae                                                                         -        -      so                       s 0
EqupntilA                     vaue                                                                        -        -      80                       s -  80
Oflbo F r                     Vale                                                                        -        -      30        -       -      30
CompeEqu At,4                 vau                                                                         -              250                      250
PrIM Shop Equlpwt k           v*l                                                                         -        - *                      -
PMnt Shop Fumk%de1I       -A du                                                                                           40                -      44 0
Subtotal                                                                                                    -      20      850        -       -     670
CLARGE-SCALE    SSMEENT
OF EDUCATION QUALTY4
L. NAES Epls
Tthbln(#rmd)hn                month                   3       6        -       -       9       6.00                18    36                -      54
hlntoem  Conerene             moNth          1        1       1       1        1       6       6.00       a       6        6       6        6      30
subtotel                                                                                                       -   24       42       6        6      84
TgddsnsC_g                                                                                                    270      584    1.152     268     131    Z405
PmRrat Cost
OverhedEpusehi
Dewelop Locd Capeb             perYew.                                                                     10       10      10       10      10      So
DealopTmaOWdes                  Vu                                                                         25       25      25                       75
Dbib                          vaalue                                                                           -                 180O 18
Ohe t EXpaa h                  ,Wle                                                                      16       15      15      1S       15      75
cbl  t6  15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                     15      195      is     255
&Subotdl                                                                                                     50       50      50      205      25     380
C.2.6 Pilo New Sylu
PrbdUp                           run            -               3        1       1       5    300.00            . .        o0      300      3W    1,500
°!W_b Onr             lq        vate                                                                       10       2o      10 _      0   10      S0
Subtotd                                                                                                      10       10     910      310     310   1,-s 0u 
NAES Inoremt  SalAe               vlue                                                                       49      133     235     307      400 t,t24O° 
NAES Ohr hian  ct                 vauo                                                                       50       s o    200      200     200     700      x
TotlRcunwtCost                                                                                                15    243    1,395         1       35 3-754  cO
Total                                                                                                          429     827   Z547    1.290   1.066   6,159  °



In Casd table .ilhi nmbering correpond to sotMils lited In tha project matrix foun In fth POM. As mmrn ac&Mle requir no finarncig, outline numbers may not be conecuthe.
lb Sr. Exmm Oficers: 20 peson, 3 monts each.
la li*rmaflon Technology stat I 3 persons far 3 monfthseach.
Id Instbl m  ssoftwae
ls Worlhop In dest  pubhfh
VW3wied, 2weekseach
Ig For prfofessrs In teache course deveaprnwnt assume 80 partIcipats
Vi Ote reatd expens found under recurrent coats.
V Fax, photocopr. phones, etc.
Indung hadwae and wfte.
k NOTE: Pntng pms US$350,000; Other misc. eqmt US$50,000; FokdM US$:.: 'O. The cost of these ems b not nckludd hI the project
V For ecue stora  of   eam paper.
nm3personsfr3month  eah.
n Ow     ad ex   ne may iclude, e.g.: cots relada to proect manement support hr
ssarinon ofteacgteutais, _GoetageIieleph-neFetc
b D_mhiorh of sapb le.   papes and dther teaher support aterib ¢a to shools.
p Ruun of ISO,A0    PY3.3 nn; PY4and.I rS un(unR cost.002)
q Owrhead eGaip:es may kicude, e.g: coats relted to project mangmeK  upport for
cla n alnatmon of tecing mateddas, VU
OD
0
_otlqnp_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



T1h 4GuI A1IOUAL STANAS & ASS_SSUEN A
O¢d ods
Q _nhU                         tinS                           Cod
UnIt   9411S 1NM        7  9r    81SOM    Totld   Cod    341             9        Om1      718    Om       ToMal
bvwmd Cods
06I. PNAEMENT
L Pegls & Pmcsdnms
Ebpee (abfn                mont         2        1       -       -        -       3    15.00      30      15        - I              -      45
T"ulg  (ahO                month       6a                                         6    5.00       30                                        3D
Suotl                                                                                               so      15 175
&Wbek Plan
e       b                  moI -                                1 -  -            1   15.00        -       1S 5                             15
Sdtal                                                                                                 60      30        -                       90
DUOCIMENTATION
WORDS CENTER
L RsAss Cter
Equpnt                     vale                                                                   50      so        -                      100
Epe,ts#cml                  year       12       12      12      12       12      60    4.80       58      58       58      58      58      288
Tmlnl (abrou               month        2        1       -        -       -       3     5.00      10       5        -            -          15
Vehkcles                   sedan   1             -                -               1   20.00       20                -                       2D
Boosa Matedials            V_S                                                                     -      50                                so
8btobl           _138                                                                                      163       58      58       S8     473
IL Automated Dat  as
Expe* (abro                month        I        1       .                        2    15.00      15      15 s               -       -      30
Comp-                      value                                                                          S         -                       S
Subtotal                                                                                            1       6aS       -        -       .      80
Subtotl                                                                                              153     228       58      58       58     563
DA. OCCUPATIONAL
STANDARDS
L Procedue
bp ewts(abroad)            m             -                        -               2    15.00              15       15        -       -      30
Trein  (aboad)             month        3        3                                a -  -   6    5.00  15  15        -        -              30
Subtota                                                                                             15      30       15                       60
L Tralnkg Mdtewals
Experb(broa                month         -       1       -        -       -       1   15.00        *      I5        -        -       .      15
Expedsfo0asf               monh          -       2        -       -               2     0.40               1        -        -               I
Subtotal                                                                                             -       16                        -      16            Q
IL Fild Tes  s
ExpWt (abma                mont          -       1                -               1    15.00       -      15        -        -              15 
Elq erfoa                  mont          -       2       -        -       -       2    0.40        -                -        -       -       1           o
Subtota                                                                                                     16                                  6h
-  16  -    -       -      16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



hv. Ongo ng Suppot
bleVts(abmoad              mont-                                 2        -       2    15.00       -        -              30        -      30
E,*eut (00aOb              month                 -      SO      50       SO     150    0.40        -        -      20      20       20      60
Wrltems(300)/t             tewm          -       -     100     100      100     300    0.60        -        -      60      60       60     180
Supps                     per team            -        100     100      100     300    0.50                         o 50   50       S0     150
Subtotal                                                                -             ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~130  is0  130  420
subtotal                                                                                              1S      62      145     160      130     512
DA. OCCUPATIONAL
ASSESSMENT
Proedwes
Epeit (abrod               mt            -       2       2                -       4    15.00       -      30       30                       O -  60
Trl1g (sbroed)             month        3        3       -        -       -       6     5.00      15      1s        -       -               30
Subtota                                                                                             15      45       30        -       -      90
TraMlng Matekis
Ext(af                     mo                    1       1        -       -       2    15.00       -      15       Is       -        -      30
Empeets (ooal              month                  1     1        -       -       2     0.40 _     -       0        0                -       I
'b- t*                                                                                                       15      15 I s                   31
IMlUdd Tedl
SIerts(abroad)             monh l                -       2                -       2    15.00       -        -      30        -       -      30
Empeqftslal)               month =               -       4        -       -       4     0.40                -       2            -           2
Subtotal                                                                                              -       -      32        -       -      32
v. Ongollg Support
Empest(abade                mont         -       -       2       2        -       4    15.00       -        -      30      30        -      60         x
EMpeiftocl)Id              mon           -       -       -    150       150     300    0.40                                s -  o 60  60   120
WdtlrnTeam(300)Ie ttem "                         -             150      150     300     1.20                       S- 10           16O     360
suppIn if                  value         -       -       -     150      150     300    0.50                 -       -      75      75      150
Subtotal                                                                                             -        *      30     345      315     690
Subtotal                                                                                              15      60      107     345      315     842
Totl                                                                                                   243      380     310    5S3       503    1.997
la Coatabl outlene nmbering orespnds to adtMles isted In tepect maetixmbud In the POM. Au some actvIies reque no fnacn, outlnenumbers may not be coeacu.
b To suppor RTSU staf in t    and uper    wslionw tas _
lc Trawl and perdbem for 300 teams (amer   3 person for 1O dap x US$20 per day.
ld To uort RTSU stuf in tr g and supvisi  w tin     andoempbignnalsisb.
is Tmral and perdl  for 300 tems (averap 3 persons for 20 dup x US$20 per dqy).
V Mdwea for 300 wdlh tms US$500 ir tueam.
lb
OQ
m



Eduaton Refom Projec
Tabe 6. TEXTBOOKS la
DadCost
Quntitie                       Unit                      Ban Cost
Unit   9495   916    697   9798   9399   Total   Cost   9496   961               96197    979      90/99    TOt
hw_rt Cods
ELi. MANAGEMENT
l.L Bowrd of Approval
Opor ob                       Value                                                                 S        5       7        7         7       31
ll. Scrett
Adwti                         value                                                                 4        4       4        4         4       20
*.xll Subjec Pandat
Opwdim  IC                    value                                                                23       45      60       75        90      293
*Wpert (ahosd) d              montl        3       3       3       3        3      I5   15.00       45      45      45       45        45      225
ln  (aben"                    mOt          2       2        -       -       -       4    6.00       12      12        -                         24
_otd                                                                                                 60      102     105      120       135      542
Xl . xlv. Pubsers
SwmplesforEhlbor              tImls        5      25      40      80      100     250    4.00      20      100     160      320       400    1,000
Pubflhi Deveopmt
Costs                         te          5      25      40      60      100     250   10.00      50      250     400      0o0    1,000    2,S00       v
Eoits(abro   )/a              moInan       3       3       3       3       3       15   15.00      45       45      45       45        45      225
Tran lSuppot                   ae                                                                   2        2       2 v      2         2       10
Subtoal                                                                                              117     397    607      1,167    1,447    3,735
xxii. Order Fonn Design
Expts (local)                 value                                                                 5-                                  -5
XXVL O      _riuoa
Epet s(abroad)                nth                  3       2       1        -       6    15.00       *      45      30       iS         -       90
xxlx-xxx Monitoring & Evaluawn
Expets(abroad                 morth        6       6       6       6       6       30   15.00      90       90      90       90        90      450
Subtotal                                                                                               301     643     843    1.403    1.683    4,873
x. TEXTBOOKS
Textboks IB   (Board approved)
Level 1-4 tot required:
5.4m books per year    -        r               500     80   1,200   1,20    3,700       1.20       -    600    9g0       1,440    1,440    4,440
Level 5.8: toal requed:
14.6m books over 3 yeams
or4.9mnewbooksperyear        "o00r              850   1.100   1,300   1,500   4,750      1.50       -   1,275   1,650    1,950    2,250    7,125   oQ z
Level 912: to  equired:
12.3m books ever 3 yea' 0
or4.1mnewbooksperyear   - 000                   Goo     800      9OD   1,200   3,500    2.0              1200 t200    I            Z4W 6,000 15         00
Subtotal                                                                                                   3,075   4.210    5,190    6,090    18.565



Texftboks G6T Board appoved)
Level 14 atal requldel
5.4M bodt xper yea000'                           400     600   1,000   1,200   3,200      1.20       -     480     720      1,200    1,440    3.840
14.61n boot over 3 yar
or 4.m noew books per ye      o0           -    650       OD   1.200   1,300   4,050      150        -     975    1,350     1.800    1,050    e.075
Leve 9.12: total requredl
123m boo  aer 3 yas
or4.lmnhwboftpeear w000"                         400     650     900    ,OO0   2,50    2.00                SW     1,300_  1,8          2,000    5900
Subtl_  225    3,370    48                                                                                                              5,390   15,815
Subtotal                                                                                                  -   5,330   7.580D _       S   11,48D   34.380
Totalnvesment Cods                                                                                        301    5.973   8,423    11,393    13,163   39,253
seetba1rhtocaJs f                   sYer       3        3       3       3        3      15     150        4       4       4         4        4        18
Se     E     h   |dla             Vone                                                                    8       8       8         8        a        40
Famu Setion MOE A
Iaca Staff
Sdes(inremena                  year        5        5       5       S        5      25     1.20                    6        6 6  6                30
Totdibaurent Codstss
Total                                                                                                     318   5,991    8,441    11,411    13,181    39,341
ba C   tabble oun numme    conpods to aMs  ed b In the prject .tk found In Oem POM. As  acIies requr no finn*G, outine numbers may not be  ccuteu. 
lb Mnber'perdbwm and trl cods: Perdiem days 2 yeas   300, 3 yeas  @ 400; Tmal days 2 years @ 180, 3 years @240 (S10/day each).                                  c
is MeMbersperdem and tr cods: Pdm daps PY1 1350, PY2n2700, PY3=3d600, PY4=45.PY5400,
Tiw day PYI=9, P2=180, PY400, PY4300D, PYW=D (USSO1Wayeach).
1d For _rovalsPIelitlon process.
ie Spcast htn  for pbher Assum     2 tw.eek w hops per ye, 30 patcpnt each.
U  8od of appro.
Ovhead eenses maybcue, e.g.: costs led to prect managemet spot for
dIssiation of teachingmaerals postageiteephne/etc.
Vb Staff to handle and ovee nww fwidig mechaniss.
olb
m x
x
C
I-
U'



EducfRdbo      m P.
Tabl  . EDUCATON FNANCI  la
DdddCasto
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                         sase Cod
UrZ  S945   9519    967   97188  Sis             Totl  UtktCost  5gas   06m    9  7   8719    ego             Tota
AI. RESOURCE ALLOCATION
o. Stu* Teow                    mon          4        -                -       -       4       6.00      24        -       '        -              24
L. Policy PayMaSts
ExpertW(abmad)               2weels        2        -       -                -       2       7.50      15        -       -                        s 15
Task Foaa Support Fund        V.                                                                                5 ,
Subtal                                                                                                   15       5                         -      20
Eabsh Fomula
Exets(abmad)                 2weki         2                -                        2       7.50      15                                         s -  -  15
Task Fore Support Fund        vaiue                                                                             S                                 5
subtotd                                                                                                  15       5        *        -       '      20
MN. Naional W.,shop
Traiin (local                  value                                                                    -                -
WorlrhpSupport                 vdue                                                                             3        .        .               3
8u                                                                              *~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~ 8  -  -           S 
Subtotd                                                                                                    54       18       -        -              72
A  RESOW CE MANAGEMENT
L Trainn Prit
EBpuft(dsra                  2we_s                  2       '        -       -       2       7.50       ^      1S        -        -       -      15
E d(bcu                      2wd            -       2       '            -           2       0.25_ 
SubtW                                                                                                             6-                        -      1
L. Modules
E0s  (d )                      Ior                  1                    -           1      15.00       -      15        -        -       -      15
Ex     lol)                   moIf          -       1       -        .       .       1       0.40       -       0               -        -       0
Miabls                        v^ue                                                                             2                                 20
Subtotal                                                                                                                                           3 3.--    -  ,  35
Ul Trdn 100 Tranes
Expents(abroad               2        L1            1  I  I                          2       7.50       8       a                                I -  15
Wabwhap                        Va_u                                                                    30  -3-30
Subtotal                                                                                                 38       8 a                       -      46
lv. Long-Twam Trani  Pan
ExpedeIoal)                   2weels        -       1                   ' -          1       0.25               0        -        -       -       0
v. RegI Traknin Capacy I
Trin Ma.t                     vu                                                                                                                 9 - .9  s  00
vi beplnrn Tranng Pan
Trai    (loca lb             2 ws           -   9.700   9.700   9.60             29,000      0.08           776   776   768                   2.3 ,
SubttdA                                                                                                    38     835      880     768        -   2,506 Wt



AA NEW TECHNOLOES
L CompWs                         i          .              50      50             100      7.00                     350     350             700
AZ EDUCATION PLANNI
LW  _dop
Eipu,t(ab,wouyt             2weIm                 -       2               -      2       7.50               -      15       -              Is
Tminln(o(a)                  whe                                                                    -       -       5       -               5
8_d ota                                                                                                   -          20       -       -      20
E~putm(d)                   2wels         -      1                -       - I            7.5        .       8       -       *8              8
Sdh. re                      vau                                                                            2                               2
E*eut0lM Id                               -     24       24       -             48       0      .4       o.I I      ol O
Subtota                                                                                                 -      19      30       *-             49
AL MONITOENS
L Desig Sysdt
(*huu                        mnh          -      I        -       -       -      I      15.00       -      Is       -                      I -  1S
L Hld dW.ps
Tr* lul)                     V                                                                      *              11       - 1   1
Ca_uhs tis                                        -    100                -    100       7.00       .       -    700        -        -    700
Iv. kq*ffmn  Syotn
E      (t                                                 I                      I .   1  15.00    _               I s                     I s 
SdioW d                                                                                                        15     726                     741
A.REIOtCENTERS(S 
L Study Tous
Tr        (ao.               mt           -      0        -       -              6       6.00       -      3        v                -     36
L. Resourc Matdals
Miai                        erout         -       6-a                            6    100.00              SW                              S 6W0
A.?. POLICY  SEARCH
L bdroduse bderdaond
Eapuw(aft"                  2 o 3m- 3                                     -      3       ?.o       23       -       -       -       -      23
Pwtdcpes                      hade                                                                  3       -       -       -       -       3
WouhapSt    pt t             vake                                                                   2       -                               2 -  2
SbtdTours                    mnuln       2       3        -       -       -      5       8.00      12      is                              30
Snbtoau                                                                                             40       18       .                      58
Ob R_cb
-   . Rmmm -1
Expebt(abmo                 2wm*a         1       -       -       -       -      1       7.5D      8 a                      -       -       8
Empedi(abmd                 2wael        2        -       e                      2       7.50      15       -       -       -               s1
Reserch Fund                 v4au*                                                                40        *                              40
St                                                                                                  65                -       -              a-  6
Sub_od                                                                                                104                     16              12    0



-83-                                  ANNEX 8
Page 14 of 15
* * *j*      * sj .    *    . jj     [j H   4|a|2j BjU|
* ' 'I '    ' '1'   I1         =        e8 0    ll 
'''I'      '' ''1* I'       *I* * *'I''1'1 8 Rjs          f
to                   b
~~_-                     -                we       
*             *      *         *       *       _t p          i
*                                      -                     a 
*             '                -       '       -f            X
U)            -       '         '                                     I :l 
id  iI
*             '       '         '       '                            it  S  t
|te   It  It   It  It   III                                  I  1
| 1 }I 111111
| |Xs~~~~~~~i-    91.  X,9,,| ]i,E  | 



ESducaton Refon Projet
Table 7. REFORM COORDINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION /a
Detaled Costs
(S  100)
chsatntl                          tUkit                        BaseCost
Unit   94;96    95696    9697    97198    98199      Total    Cos    941        96)96    9"67    979      938      Total
tswabun_ Costs
IL1. PROJECT COORMINATION
L. PCU Staff
ExWp1t pocc                  value                                                                      25       25       25       25       25      125
Aooutl SeVeM                 morAh        1        1        1        1       1          5    15.00       15      15       1S       1S       15       75
Trnan" (abroa-              month        10       10       10 tO     -                 30    6.00        0        0        0-                -      10
Projec Merlmdn
Assistance                 mIro         11       10        8       5        4         38   1S.00       16S     150      120       7S       60      570
Audb                         valu                                                                        20      20       20       20       20      100
Subtotal                                                                                                  286    270       240      13S   120    1,050
MaeIalInputs
Equint                       Va                                                                        6s        lf       10       10       10      100
Compue                       vl                                                                         36       10       10       10       10       75
Vehicle                      agn          1        -                                    I   20.00       20         -       - ,A                               00
Subtotal                                                                                                  11S      20       20       20       20        195
Totdal lsment Costs                                                                                           400      290      260     155      140    1,245
Reoctmn Cods
Ovitlad Ex sesb tovl                                                                                         so       80so    80       80       80      400
Totdal Recurrent Costs                                                                                         s0        0       80-      0o      8o      400
Tobl                                                                                                          460      370      340      235      220    1,645
b Cot tble outiGne nunmih  coesponds to ces Iebd In the prject matbr   und In the POLM  Asom  aciMes requie no financwin, ,ou neumbers my not be onse v.
lb Ovedua qo ue m   ay n  inclde, e.g.: costs relidw to projec mnarge.,triat suppost for
laonat  of teahi  meterlsPosue4lphnlbA
Pt~
CO
0
Ft.



- 85 -
RiM IA EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                                 ANNEX
Summyv of Technical Assistance                             Page 1 of 5
NUMiER OF MONTHS
SUIBCOMPONENT      DESCRIPTION OF SERiCES PACKAGE    PYt           PY2      PY3       PY4      PYS    TOTAL
Etblish organizational
IA. CURRICULUMi         structure for currioulum  Individual
DEVELOME                development               contract      I        1                                    2
Prepare guidelines for new
organization of ptimary
I.e. TEACHER TRAIING   teacher training *ystem       #1         4        2                                    6
Proepar' guidelines for new
secondary teacher training
system                      51         4         2                                    6
Prepare in-service teacher
training program           #1          1        1                                    2
Develop and Introduce new
asoesement formats In
subject specific groups at
the iudet level             52                 24                                   24
Looi TA              36       36                          72
Train staff of the laboratory
for new educationai
technology in uses of    Individual
compudng for educedon     contract      2        2        2   I                       6
Translate, adapt andlor
develop appropriate
software and written      Individual
suppo materiabs           contract      2        1        1                           4
Locsi TA    60       20       20                          100
I.C. ASSESSMENT         Assist NAES in estabiishing
& EXAMINATIONS         and carrying out its roie    #2         1        1         1        1        1         5
Train subject speciists in
ppdnciples and techniques of
aassessment, exam
admninistration, design &
construction of draft exam
syllabi, and com#puterizato,  52                6        3        3                 12
aInsll exam software        52                  0.5      0.5                          1
Develop local capacity
(MOEllES staff), selected
teachers/potential examniners
and Item writers in pr'inciples
and techniques of modem
educational assessment     #2         1.5       3        3        3        3        13.6
L -ocal TA  4.6       9         9       18        18      58.5
Develop teacher gwdes and
other support materialis   #2                   2        2                           4
Assist training institutions in
including courseslmodules
on measurement. test
design, admnistation and
interpretation of results  52                  1.5                                  1.8
Review exam syllabi to bring
them into Oine with national
curricula, and agres on
examinable content at each
_________________ _    levrel  #2       3                                             3
Local TA    12                                            12



- 86 -
ROMANIA EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                                 ANNEX 9
Summary of Technical AssIstance                             Page 2 of 5
NUMBER OF MONTHS
SUBCOMPONENT        DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES PACKAGE        PYI      PY2       PY3      PY4      PYS      TOTAL
Finalize and print naw syilabi
as they are completed in
tandem with curriculum
review and textbook
development               Local TA               24       24        12       12        72
Advise on organization of
dissemination of syllabi,
sample exam papers and
other teacher support
materials to schools In
conjunction with In-serice
wofkshops in assessment
methods                      #2                            3        3                  6
_________________                         Local TA                        26       36                 72
Preparadon of premises for
NAES 1/                   Local TA               SO                                   50
Develop general COSA
I.D. OCCUPATiONAL       procedures for defining
STANDARDS AND           oocupational standards and
ASSESSMENT              asesssment products           13         2        1                                     3
Develop a one-year and five-
year work plan for COSA
i _______________  and the RTSU                      #3                  1                                     t
Establish a Resource Center
for obtaining, storing. and
disseminating occupational
standards and assessment
___ _ __ _  materials            Local TA    144       144      144      144       144      720
Develop an automated date
base to accss Int.
standards/assessment
matedals. act as repository
of materials developed in
Romania, and maintain
records on occupational
certificates issued by COSA  #3         1        1                                     2
Define iaocedures for COSA
& RTSU staff for
development of occupational
standards                    #3                  1         1                           2
Develop training materials
for training teams in wrting
end reviewing standards.
and orienting COSA
members and others to
availabilitV and use of
occupational standards in
development curricula &
assessment & oertification
programs                     13       _          1                                     1
.__,,_____.______  Local TA                 2                                     2
Fie|!d test procedures for
development of occupational
standards In a number of
- occupations and institutions   Loc3             1 T  -_
I                       I___    Locai TA          2 _                                   2



- 87 -
ROMANIA EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                                ANNEX 2
Summsry of Technical Aalelaa                               Page 3 of 5
NUMBER OF MONTHS
SUBCOMPONENT        DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES PACKAGE    PYI         PY2       PY3      PY4      PYs    TOTAL
Provide ongoing support for
development and use of
about 300 occupational
standards                   #3                                     2                  2
Local TA                       50       50        SO      10
Develop procedures for
COSA RTSU staff In gulding
development end item
andlysis of test items, and
asisting institutions In
developing tests from these
test Item dste banks        #3                   2        2                           4
Develop traiuing materis
for COSA RTSU staff In
tralrdnglsupervidng teams.
& certifying enterprises and
niployvmnt/traidng
Insttutions wishing to use
test items to develop tests
meeting COSA standards      #3                   1        1                           2
Local TA               1        1                           2
Field test procedures for
development of test Item
data banks, testing
reliabilityhvalidity of test
items, and training
institutions to develop
performance tests           #3                            2                           2
I ______________ =______________                  Local TA                        4                           4
Provide ongoing support for
development snd use of test
Item data banks for about
300 occupations             #3                            2        2                  4
Local TA                                150      150      300
Approvals Board (menbe'rs
I.E. TEXTBOOKS          operatng expenses) 2/     Local TA     1S        15       1S       16       16        77
EstabUsh subject panels
required to assess textbook
submissions for grades 1-12  #4        3         3        3        3        3        1S
Conduct workshops for
rpublishers                 #4         3         3        3        3        3        15
Design standard order form
to be provided by publishers
to schools for placing
textbook orders 31        Local TA    12.5                                           12.5
Distribution                t4                   3        2        16
Monitor the effectiveness of
the subcomponent's
__ _ ._______________     activities         #4         6         6        6        6        6        30



- 88 -
ROMANIA EDUCATION RFORM PROJACr ATNEX 9
summarv of Teehnical Assitance                                Page 4 of 5
____ _   __________    ________________                                          NUMER OF MONTHS
SUBCOMPONENT        DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE    PACKAGE       PY1       pyZ       PY2      PY4       PYS      TOTAL
Determine policy parameters
and crntera for allocating
NA. EDUCATION           funds to educational
FINANCING &              institutions based on cost-
MANAGEMENT               analysis In education         15          1                                               1
Establish appropriation
formula for preo-university
education                  _ 5           1                                               1
Assess tralining and
equipment priorities in
financial management and
accounting in edjcation
sector                        #5                   t                                     t
.__________________  __________________   Local  TA       ..     1                                      1
Develop pilot training
modules                       #5                   1                                      1
._.  .     ~Lood TA1t
Train initl group of national
level officials and
inspectorate staff in basic
financial manaerneent         #5        0.6       0.5                                     1
Formulate longtemm trardnin
plan                          #5                  0.5                                   0.5
Condout two-week
workshop on educaton
planning for 20 national level Individual
off icials                 contract                         1                             1
Adapt oducaion planaina
softwar                      #5                   O.S                                   0.5
Locd TA         _      24       24                           48
Design sihool eductoning
systenra                       5 c                                                       1
Implement school montoring  Individual
fo and mprovecent system i oontract                                                      1
Introduce intemational
experience in lducation   Individual
_decentralization          contract     1.8                                              t .3
Disseminate research on    Individua
reform and decentrmlization    contract  1.5                                       .    1.5
. L                      ~~~~~~~~~~Local TA 41  5                  _5
Cfeeduct poriu saionalr on
rbeourcd cobiuzlon in pre-  Individual
universitv education       contract_               3                                     3
Carry vo  feasibnrty o   or
earmrnuled local education    Individual
_levies and formtubte palicy    contract11
Conduct research on user
fees for educational services
beyond cornpulsorv        Individual
. s~~~~~ducation level                   contract.11
Develop loan program for
low4ncome families and
improve schlaship
prograns for Woadeng       Ividual
._________________ _   d1istinction  contract                 1                            1



- 89 -
ROMAIiA EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                                  ANNEX a
Summar of Technical Asueance                                Poge S of 5
NUM3R OF MOTIH,
SUBCOMPONENT        DESCRIPTON OF SERVtCES  PACKAGE        PYI       PY2      PY3      PY4       PYS      TOTAL
Conduct policy research on
educatInAndustry
reladonship to define
entepises' reasponsdbWiltie    Individual
Infinencina educaion       contract  t   t
_mplementatdon               15         2         i        1 t       t        t
L ocal TA    75       75        71       75        75       375
U.S. COORDINATION &     Provide adrinicstrative and
IMPLEMENTATION          managedal support to PCU      #          3         3        3        3         3        16
Provide procurement
assisance to PCU including
preparaton of bid
documents, specifications.
etc.                         16         6         3        3        3         3        18
Accounting assistance        #7         1         I        1                            s 1  S
Firmt
Individual TA
Auditing assistance     S               1         1        1         1        1         5
TOTAL                                                                           2390
it Archtetctuiral serviess: Coste. as percentage of total construction cost i.e., about US$20,000 or equiValenft Of ____
5 months of local consultants at US$400 per month.
2V Costed as a value of US$31,000, or equivalent of about 77 months of tooel consutaents at US$400 per month.
31 Costed as value of US$5,000 or equivalent of about 12 months of local consultants at US$400 per month.
4/ Costed as value of US$2,000 or equivalent of about 5 months of local consultants at US$400 per monZt
SI Costed as value of US$20,000 per ear, etmateuditing serices expenses including overhead ax ensesn ;
estimated I month of specist services per ye. r
_           _ I IX                            I                               I                                      I_ -
________________                     ~~PACKAG;E SU MMARY _
Selctien Method                                   igtmt
(US$ nIllion)
Package 81             Technical merit                                    0.20
Package #2             Technical merit                                    1.05
Package f3             Technical merit                                    0.40
Package #4             Technical merit                                    0.99
Package #5             Technical mert                                     0.20
Package J6             Technical mefit                                    0.50
Package #7             Technical merit                                    0.10
Individual contracts    Comparison of CVs                                    0.40
Totd Se" Cost                                            3.84
a/ Total may not odd up due to rounding.
tesutwrjds (SiH)_
m:UrwmneducWse%                                                       i



- 90 -
RCMANU EDUCATION REFOR  PROJECT                                   NINX 10
SummgX of EemaiM Tralrdn                                  Pag. 1 of 2
._________________    ______                             l 8MOTH PER PROJECT YEAR
BENE-
FCIARY
EXTERNAL TRAINN   ACTIVmES       ENTITY   YEAR 1 YEAR 2 YEAR 3 YEAR 4 YEAR 6 TOTAL               RiMARK
IA. CURRICULUM DEVEOPMELT
2 perons, 2 months
Train newly appointed CTB members   CTB           4                                       4 each
Train newly appointed CG &.d WG                                                             4 persons,  2 months
ecialsts                          CG & WG         a                                       8 each
Train SIC members                                 2                                       2
I.B. TEACHER TRAINEiG                                _         _    _
Prepare new organization for primay                                                         5 study vits of 2
teacher trainirng                DOP & CCDs       6       41                             10 months each
Prepare now organizaton for                                                                 5 study visits of 2
secondary teacher training          DOP           0       4                              10 months each
Develop inservke tainring programs
adapted to changing primary and
secondary curricula                 DOP          12      12                              24
Train lab staff In uses of computing in
educati.n                            IES         10      10      10                      30
I.C. ASSESSMENT AND
EXAMINATIONS
20 persons, 3 nonths
Train senior exam officers          NAES          18     30      12                      60 each
3 persons, 3 months
Train information technology staff  NAES          6       3                               9 each
Train experts in statistical sampling,
survey/questionnaire desigh, statisticsi                                                    3 persons, 3 months
anaiysis                            NAES                  3       6                       9 ech
International Conferencess        NAESAES         1       1       1       1       1       5
I.D. OCCUPATIONAL STANDADS &
ASSESSMENT                        _
Review structure and poricies of
similar councils (COSA) in at least  COSA/
three other countries               RTSU          6                                       6 COSA staff
COSA/
Develop occupational standards      RTSU          3       31                              6 RTSU staff
Develop occupational assessment    COSAI
procedures                          RTSU          3       3                               6 RTSU staff
I.E. TEXTBOOKS                                       _
Study visits for selected subject panel
and Board members to review
textbcok selection mechanisms In
other countries                     TAB           2       2-                              4
OA. EDUCATION FINANCING &
MANAGEMENT_
Study visits for financial managers in
education                         MOE/IES         4                                       4 4 persons, 1 month each
Study visits to resource centers for
education planning, financing and
management                         MOEIES                 e 66 6 persons. 1 month ech
Introduce international experience in
educadton policy researh           MOE/ES         2       3            -                  5 5 persons, 1 month each



- 91 -
ROMANIA EDUCATMON REFORM PROJECT                             ANNEX 10
8umma  t Exm  Tniniu  a                                Page 2 of 2
___________________ _____.                        MONTHS PER PROJECT YEAR
RONtAR
EXTERNAL TRAINN    ACT"JtES    ENTITY   YEAR 1 YEAR 2 YER 3 YEAR 4 YEAR S TOTAL             REMARKS
0US. COORDINATION &
MANAGEMENT                                      _ 
Selected study vits for full-time PCU
staff in procurement, occoundng.
disbursements, project numagement.
etc.                            PCU stff       10      10t    10                    .30
TOTAL                                                        ___
m:\romkeduclserAfellowads
SLH



- 92 -
ROMAI                                               ANNEX 11
EDUCAION PFORIH PROJECT                                     Page 1 of 2
BS mlon I,.dudn ctmlenolse
PROJECT YEAR
PRZ-                                                 PR - - -OC
PROJECT ELEMENT               PROJECT       1      2   1  3        4      5       TOTAL    MENT METHOD
Loan Mnd
Slgn/EffectivetOose                            XX  X                                  XX
Nad. Asseesment & Exainations Se' 40e
(NAES)                                                                   .                            N.8.F.
Prepare documents                                          XXX
Award contrat                                                 X
Carry out works                                                   xxXX
Rinancing spread           ;    _     _                  0.20                       0.20
Equipment/Materualextbooks:
Prepare lists. speeifloations and bid                                                                Equipment:
documents/Publlshers selection otitrta  iCiSlhopping
and kocal advertidsing                       XXX  XXXX  XXXX  XX                                     Textbooks: LCB
Bidding, evaluation and contact
awerd/Submission of manuscripts, selection
and contract award                                 XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
Deliver goodsInstail                                  X   XX)OX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
Finacng spread                            0.901  8.40  10.80  14.30   15.40        49.90
Voehiles:
Prepare specifications                       XX    X                                                 Shopping
Obtain pfice quotations and purtoha                XXXX  XXXX             XXXX
Fincing spread                                    0.00           0.10               0.1t
Computers:
Prepare specifieations & bid documents             XXXX                                              ICBiShopping
B3idding, evaluation an contract award                XX  XX)X   XXXX
Deiiver and insil                                     XX  XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
Finaneing spread                          0.908  0.10    1.60   0.40    0.00        3.00
Sark's Consultant
Guidelines
Prepare T0st/Shlort iists              XXX)LfXX     XXLsL                                            Prooedures
Invsite and eave-uate prtopo s  isawwad
eontraot                                           XXXX  XXXX  XXXX
Deliver servies                                     X      X               XXXX  XXXX
Financing spread           I      _       1.40  2-0    2-        2.00    1.901      9._        _ _



- 93 -
ROMAII                                           ANNEX 11
EDUCAlN REFORM  1f M                                     POg 2 of 2
w  ROECTYEAR
PRE_                                                       PROCURE-
PROJECT ELEMENT              PROJECT      1     2       3      4       a     TOTAL    MENT METHOD
Bank's Consultant
Guidelines
Prepare TORe/Selet oandidates           XXXXX                                                   Procedures
InWite cud evaluate proposals/Award
aontract                                        XX    XX    XX        XX     XX
Dliver trairnig                                  XXX  XXXX  XXXX  XXtX  XXXX
Financing spread                        0.80   1.60   ,.50   1.40   0.50        S.80
Incrementl OperaiCoaosts                  =        0.30   0.40    1.70   1.30    1.20     4.90
TOTAL                               4.30  12.80  17.0  19.50  lS.O0        73.50
of whch Bank-finanoed                      2.00   7.00  11.10  15.60  14.30       50.00
NOTE: Fures may not total due to rounding.
a/ TOR. for major TA packages have been prepared and can be found In th POtW.
m Vom%educ%saprocimp.ds
SLH



- 94 -Paf I of 2
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Eamate Disbursement LEE2&
R      I. ph"  Y      Ouwr    Cuada                     Remade      E    _AMuOn
and uartuer     rus Millon})  lugs mun    Prhojec    AN Setor    An Raon.
1995       1       0.0          0.0         0.0%        0.0%         0.0%
2       0.0          0.0         0.0%        0.0%         0.0%
3       0.1          0.1         0.2%        3.0%         1.0%
4       0.1          0.2         0.4%        6.0%         2.0%
1996       1       0.1          0.3         0.R%        10.0%        4.0%
2       0.2          0.S         1.0%        18.0%        6.0%
3       0.4          0.9         1.8%        22.0%        8.0%
4       0.8          1.7         3.4%       20.0%        10.0%
1997      1        1.0          2.7         S.4%       34.0%        12.0%
2        1.5         4.2         8.4%       38.0%        14.0%
3       2.0          6.2        12.4%       40.0%        18.0%
4       2.5          8.7        17.4%       46.0%        22.0%
1998       1       2.5          11.2       22.4%       50.0%        26.0%
2       3.5          14.7       29.4%       54.0%        30.0%
a       3.6          18.2       36.4%       58.0%        36.0%
4       4.0          22.2       44.4%        62.0%       42.0%
19S9       1       4.0          26.2       52.4%       64.0%        48.0%
2       4.5          30.7       61.4%       70.0%        54.0%
3        5n          35.7       71.4%       76.0%        58.0%
4       5.0          40.7       81.4%       82.0%        62.0%
2000       1       4.8          45.S       91.0%       91.0%        66.0%
2       4.6          50.0       100.0%      100.0%       70.0%
3                                                        74.0%
4                                                        78.0%
2001       1                                                        84.0%
2                                                        86.0%
3                                                        90.0%
4                                                        94.0%
2002       1                                                        96.0%
2                                                        98.0%
3                                                        99.0%
4                                                        100.0%
SLH



1995
1996
1997
1998
[[1999                                       I
IX    I                                        i'  it
2000
2001
2002j         l
I6



ROMANA EDUCATON REFORM PROJECT                                           NNEX 13
t"e hm48m2UtdM 1001"HIVS                    'Page 1 of 4
=    -  R1 =IYEAR I         YEAR 2               YEAR3               YEAR 4               YARS    =
ACTMIES               01   Q2   03   04   01   02    Q3  04   01   02  03  104   Q1   Q2   03   04  Q1   02  03  04
IA. CUR_CUWUM                                                         .       _  M_ dT 
Estafh NBC and apntmens            XX  I    I
Eatablsh SIC and-anpoint n*ere     XX                                                         -    -    -
ksa" SIC In    ate facIdes         XX
Selaet wnd appoint CX Xn WC mw _e_  XX
SIC to prepw squipentM md educatio
Train CThiCO DOPIDOR scesiets      XX
CTB and CB to fo sdoe guldeine and
qotchblsh ftimtsle for WOe         XX
Co to Sams Was                     XX
WOe to produce fir drafts of new   ula     X XXX    XXX  XX  XXX KXX  XXX    X                     -    -
CO to assss ft draft of new curriuls        X XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX X             -    -         - -
CO to trnmtt find drafts of rw cuourcua to
CTB                                         X XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX X
CTO to assss final drafts of nw curriula    X XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX  XXX XXX X
CT8 subnik curbula to Mnister              X XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX X            =
DOP Implemont new curdiula                  X XXX XXX  XXX X     XX  XXX XXX XxJ  X
Feedback on new ocuriula from schools an
CCDs to WGo                                 X XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX X
1.. TEACR TRAININO
Prepare gueeNines for retructuring pa-service
trainrng                                XXX
Oraarze coneultancy. trainn courses and
study vists                             XXX XXX   XXX   XXX IXXX  XXX
Close or convert aedno Scoala normleb and
opon new institutions                   XXX XXX  XXX  XXX XXX XYX XXX   -    -    -    -                -
Evaluate etdstlng p-sr"   trainino for
secondary education and propareo uidelines for
now progwne                             XXX                                             -    -    -    -          -    -    -    -    -
OWrize consult   and study visit        KXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX   XXX XXX
Develop adopted-training program        XXX XXX  XXX  XXX XXX  XXX XXX  ___
Orgarne tranino and study visits for staff  _ __   XXX   XXX  XXX XXX  XXX XXX          = -    -                  _|
Equip CCC. ad tra schools                     XXX   XXX   XXX XXX XXX  XXX  __ 
Equip IES laiorbtorv                     _   XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX .-.
Train CCD staff In other ludets                                              XXX XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX XXX  XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX



ROMATA EDUCAT  RORM PROJECANEX 13
Pon hncqmknw.... Soho"                                         Page 2 of 4
u3cofPoNEir                   YE"AR              YUER 2              V- I  3            YEAR 4               EAR 6
ACT MTES            01  02  0304    1 0I 103  04 010 20 3 04 01  02 0Q3  Q4 Q0102  Q3 04
fldntiocoborgLddB        Lx =   =    _   =   =   =   =   =xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx  I___
Prpae ao nd4pwment esement traino n
P_xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx lxxx xxx xxx        __
Eqwpkwsuxxx jxxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
DevepneWt ei  oglb r(khIn__ud_n_
onslady and tralni                        xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
Equip lb nd resoure center        _ _          xxx xxx xxx %xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
Dogn softw                                 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx  __  
Trin tochuwcX xxx xxx
H4ol workshops for omputems In Oct scoo    xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx  xx xxx                               . . 
EqLip plot hools                           xxx X
LO. ASSESSIMWT AND EXAMINATIONS
leteblj l^eb -A                  X
metal NABS In adoquate f_c                                                   __tle_
(rofublehment of locod end procurenmnt of
_q_ _n_o___                                 _xx  xxx Xxx xxx Xxx  Xxx xxx  _xx 
Train subloct spodlist           xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx XXX                                       I
Develop ioca capact orlentaon workhops
for staff, teachers. etc.)       xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxX xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
Devaop an produce teacher puldag                              xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx __ _
Aest teacher trainin istIatutes (workshopO)   -   _  xxx   -   -   -   -   -
Rowew/develop sr,umk             xxx xxx xxx xxx
Prnt ox-n -v- _                                     xxx xxx  xxx xxx xxx              I -
Train staff                                          xxx xxx            xxx xxx   -
Lyce trials and feedback          =                           xxx xxx   =         
SAC tridls nd feedback                                                            xxx xxx  ___
Dismnato finald oabl/ppers to schools          I                    __ _     xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
Hire Innmontal staf              xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx XXx xxx xxx xxx Xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
LD. OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS AND
ASSES8MNT       ,_                                                  __                             _, 
Develp policds, procedures and wok plan for
COSA                             xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx  -   -   -   -   -   -
Crete resourc center             xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx  xxx                             J
Deveoo autorated data bses                 XXx xXX TX xXx xxx xxxx        _ -    -              I   I 



ROMANIA IDUCATON REFORM PROJEcT                                             ANNEX 13
BO" lb_WMWAWM fig2ds       tPage 3 of 4
suscoMpoId4T                     YEAR 1                YEAR 2                YEAR 3                YEAR 4                YEA=R  S
ACTATIUS               01   02   03   04   01   02   03   04   01   02   03   04   01   02   03  14   01   02   Q3   04
tefine pedures for oguding ONe dvopmeont
of ooupetional stAdds                           XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX XXY.
D.ve   trinin maeral                                        XXX  XXX
Conduct field teat of prooedures In secd -_
owue'ons and Inostittions,                                            XXX  XXX  __
ProkId onroing SUDport                                                           XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX
D pev    assessment proodures                        XXX           XXX XX)  XXX  XXX  XXX
Deayl" training m_ter_a=s                                       XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  ___
Conduct ftied taste                                                                         XXX  XXX
Prmov ormolng supprt                                                                        XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX XXX  XXX  XXX
LU. TEXTBOOKS
Ad_wte for        to Textbook Review
Board                                     x
A,olnt President d Board Menbers             X  ___
nppoit Soeteat nd Itl. consulnt             X   ===
Set up Boid and appont eubeot -n
spsdehts                     _X  _               _____                                                                             _      O
Rfet nmtko of pubfishm)                                                                           
_____ ____               __   =-=              =     =    =     == -                  - =          , X  -  -          _ _         =-
Prpwre lot of publahers                       X
Prpe tzhnil teaCton                           X
Invto subv sson of proposels                    X                     X               _     X           _         X                    X
Dsodlno for sub on of proposaX s                                                     X                   X                   X
Opon subn4s_ons                       _                      X                   X                     X               _     X
Announce approved textbook ist                                   X                    X                     X                     X
Hold exhibits for schools to sseet now boobk                               X                 _   X                     X    _I _             X
Compile school textbook orders, colsts and
submtn to publishers                                                               X                     X             _      X
Delivr textbooks to schools                                                                    X                    X                   X
NA. EDUCATION FINANCING AMD
MAAGEM0ENT
Determine policy parameters and crteria for
allocang funds to eduo. Intons         _    _    _     _   XXX
Esablish apprpation formula for pre-
unIdverty educton                                                XXX
O rient Partciants to budtary DOSSXXX



ROMANIA EDUCATION REFORM rOJT                                                   EX  13
Be  lbmolnwntatlon Schdule    -                                        Page 4 of 4
SUsCOMPONENTI                     YEAR I                YEAR 2                YEAR 3                YEAR 4                 E_S
ACTIVITIES             Q102    a          4   01   02   03   04   01   02   03   Q4 __         Q2   03   04   t1  02   03   C4
Assss eduaon/traIdng pdorIts In finanial
manaoement and aeountno In eductdon                              XXX
D"VoD dRot tdreing modules                                            XXX
Tran 100 officida In financial manaInt                                      XXX  XXX
Fomuite lone-term treWna plan                                               XXX
Devlop egional trainin  capadty and suppy
matedalasAqulpmnt                                 _____. _ XXX                       __ 
Implment training plan                                                      XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX
wnement now technologies                                                          XXX  xXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  KXX
Strengthen educeation sector plannAng  ====                                       XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX
Doesign monioino system and train central and
udtleval rsonnal                                           XXX   XXX   XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX
Implement school morAtodng and Improvement
nsytorn                                                                                      XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  KXX  XXX  XXX  XXX
Esta_   reoanal resource cntors                             XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX
Condtct poicy research Introdudng
Intenaonal expedorn  and dissInatino g
research on rform0decentralzaton     XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXXXXXX  XXX  XXX               _     
bEplore optons and dovelop policies for
4lvlng sources of education financing  _XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX  XXX I
B1.. COORDINATION & IMPLEMENTATONI                                                                                                  ___ _
Staff PCU I1                         XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  xXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX
Subrnt srn-annwal-progress repons2            X X         X X        X x        X A        X X        X X        X X        X X        x X        X
Subrit annuda uite repons 31                  X                      X                     X                     X                     x X
Mid-term review targot data          I          I                                 XXX
NOTE: Assumes loan effetiveness September 1994.=
1/ Staffing of PCU with necessary full-tim. personnel Is a condidon of lan effeodveness. 
2t Semi-annual progress reports to be submitted by March 31 and September 30 of each project year.
31 Annual audit repors of profeot accounts will be dua by June 30 of each asr I.e.. witin six months of the close of the Government's fisa year (JanuaryDmber.
m:ronduaWmire.ds__ l 1   L.  - - Ii  !~ I~L                                                                                          - l-1111    
81 ) 4r                                                    X     l    r      L                    r     | L            r      r    |      _



- 100 -
Page 1 of 10
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECr
SM and liect Montoringf bdcaton
Sector Indiaors
Increase in proportion of students enrolled in academiuc high schools
Decrease in proport0on of students enrolled in secondary level programs not offedng
school completion certificates
Decrease in number of specializadons in technical lyceum
Decrease in number of specializations in vocational programs
Decrease in intake for pts-service aining of primary teachers
Decrease in enrollment of students in pedagogical high schools
ncrease in nuber of textbook titles approved for use in primary schools
Increase in number of textbook tides approved for use in gymnasium
increase in number of textbook ties approved for use in secondary general education
-ubjects
Increase in mnmber of textbook tites published through private sector publishers
Increase in student teacher ratio in primary education
Increase in student teacher ratio in gymnasium
Increase in student teacher ratio in academic high schools
i'nctwse in student teacher ratio in technical high schools
Increase in student teacher ratio in vocatonal programs
Increase in total expenditures on education as % of GDP
Increase in proportion of education expenditure on non-salay items
Increase in proportion of education expenditures financed by sources other than the
MOE budget
Increase in proportion of secondary level graduates entering post-secondary
institutions
Increase in decision-making authorities (on expenditures, staffing and in-service
training, materias selection) of schools
Increase in decision-making authorities (on expenditures, staffing and in-service
training, materias selection) of inspectorates
Filo: M:UW0MMWUCWAR%ANNW I4.f



- 101 -                                       ANNEIX14
Page 2 of 10
MONlTORING PLAN: Key hulaos
surtig       Lau           TWis          End of
Indicator                                      Status        Review        Review        P*ject Status
Ap, 1 M,                    (    )       JazyI999
1. Basic and Geneal S.condary
A. Cutiulm
Progams in .t draft                                                                          Total: 66 programs
at 14                                            16
Gr 54                                            27
Gr 912                                           11
Progams apptoved by MOE                             0                                        Total: 66 programs
B. Teacherngn:             
Propol fr pro-service taini system                  0                                        1 proposal
Regional ceters equipped and fiAnctionm4            0                                        6 CCDs
Teachers tain,d in:
Currulm                                            0                                        TBD
Assement                                           0                                        TED
Tlxtsldecdon                                       0                                        TED
Text use                                           0                                        TSD
C. N t and
Entrance to Sr 12 exam (Bac)
Content ageed for.
- ROLangi4t&Math                                0                                        2 subjects
- OUr subjects                                  0                                         15-20 subjects
- Exam syllabuses and sample papes deved        0                                        Capies to Sr 12
Entranoe to gr 9 exam (Lyce enance)
Content ard for.
-RO Lng/t &Matb                                 0                                        2 soject
- Exem syllabsesd smpe papers ddevd             0                                        Copies to gr 8 teachers
D. QKb  -LqfinL S%ndan
RTSU esmbhdied                                      0                                        I unit
Occupatonal andards establihed                      0                                        300 occupations
Test items validated                                0                                        300 occupations
B.  Iexlbooi
Invlttion to submit propoa for
approved new cunwua progrm  (FAB)                   0                                        66 progtams
Textbook poposal approvd for now cwricu
program  CAB)                                      0                                        250 tiS
Textbook deliveted to schools (Publirs
through 4! ispectorstes)                            0                                        20 million texs
D. Occunational Standards and A
RTSU etablished                                     0                                        1 unit
Occupational sbtdards established                   0                                        300 occupations
Tes iems validatd                                   0                                        300 occupations
IL  Bducadon. Fumanc  and Manasement
Improved alocaon formula established ad in us       0                                        2 sde
Fimcial manages  Wained                             0                                        29,000 managers
Computerized monitorn    nion system
fincding                                          0                                        41 jude
Fi6- M.UtOMUHUCXIARIAMNNSI4.PW



- 102 -                           ~ANNEX 14
- 102-                                         Page 3 of lO
ROMAMA
EDUCATICN REFORM PROJECT
: V *t sbbrvationes am notd on SM  isaide over.
*  -  hs actvitwe would coniua =ammy  te tA esh ye     which p roject           Is pvde.
I  - now esatvities wool continue annuty Ante the f  year In vdbc projec NAsaIn Is provided. subjec to changes resutin
#~~~~ -  -h    -                                                                -   -
fimm  dwd    to awt  ocs-om    obvm
SuboponentAtvi  ad PeafmmIdMAtn_                     Unit          1993       1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
LA. CURRICULUM                                        __ _ _
t 1. Esta in .Ov__ad  _aisms
-onal cuniAu n d       ac rig bard                MOE           ConNe
established.*
CTB member appointed.                                MOEIDOR    x
Two CrB tm           visied abroad.                  MOEIDOR                  x       x
Frameok for coordinat  gtoup (Ca) NAd w ig           CTII          x
groups (WG) Ptepre._ _ _
co and Wu polalle appointed.                         DOR           x
Thee CO members had gady vits.                       Ias. abrd                         =
Support prvided to WO.                               CT!              -
2. EsabUA a&.nhWd.    * &tucDu
Service fo c ulum ad teacher Utrani  (SIC)           DOR          C_Ne.
stbtted._.                                                                                              _
SIC members apped.                                  WD      OP           '_
Facilities fog SIC seetd.                            DOR           x
Equipment ad   ply m pgprd.                          SC 
3. D*Vdp nw c__*ul_
ES repreete  appointd to WO                          ES                       x
____ __Diesto
Work plan deveoped.                                  was                      x
Fht dfis of new curich   prepard.                    WGIF                     x       x        x       x       _
Fimt draft as ed.                                    CG.                      x       x        I       x
Final draft as  d.                                   CIB                      x       x        K       x
Natona Commissonasconae.                             Clll                     x       x        x       x         -
Cucula approved.                                     MO                       x       x       x        x
4. Ipknrm new cicideuf
New cuia  distbuled to tace.                         DOM                      x       x        x       x
Seminass held  in   cds tachr Ui, and tah.    WOC ad_                                          x       x       x
on ne  curr.ua.                                      cC_



- 103 -                                    ANNB  14
Page 4 of 10
jbC      n    Ac vIes and S  Performac   dicatos     Unit           9         199 _           199       9      1998
Feeack given to W   af  one yar of u.                 M                                                x 
Cuuum  adusted.                                      WG                                                x
z. T3.ACDERTAIN=                                                                                       =
Gudne4 prepard for tew tang pgram for pdmary   TA aud                         x       x
teachen                                              DOP
Co    antraini  couses  udy vi   orgaized.           TA and                  x        x
I yt1tav1em,                            ~~~DOP
G"uidlIe prepare for intere reawgaizatio of eziatio    TA and                x
secodary teache Utraiin system.                      IDO?
Tmi*8 cors  and sudy viorganied.                    TA and                    x       x
DO?
Drat proposd pepaWed for nW tea her tnt sstem       TA and                   x        x
DO_ 
Develop i-wn*e teacher trainng proeua                 ____
Shzucr prepaed for teace trini.                     TA, MS.                  x        X
_____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ ____   6  CCDs
Crit   dewlcped for seltido of dst  of trai         TA, 1S         x
cOntes.                                             6 CCDa
Staff ppoinecofinned for ap mnt I trIning            DOP          I
centers       ,..                                                             __
Train   coes ad sudy tou orgtnd for taff of          TA and D3S                   x   x
Training prgam for tesches prpard with tach'         TA. 1ES.                         x       x
8                    .                               CCDsB
CCDs and m   tal sclhoo  equped.                    TA and                   x        s
._ ~~CCD* 
I  lborayquped.                                     IBS                      x
Teacher traind at die MS hboaswo and the ix CCD.   IS nd                              s       s       s
.               .    CClb                           _                _   _   _B
Dev*iop Dftad  fedpback ecaea9gy___
Trainin orgnized and equipmnt provided for Al CCDa   DO?                      K       I
in the judets.
Tachers oriend to new amenm   forats.                ta                               X       X
Pot udies conductd for oW asqments.                  NAMS and                                         x
Feedback ino me m    pree.                          NABS and                                                   x
MS                                 -
EmWh o            w                                   __a_.  _     _                           _ _



- 104 -                                   ANX  14
Page 5 of 10
Sub-Coon     Aclivltios and Prformance bndi         Unit         19         199      199S    1996    1997    1998
Membe of Natienal Amsmen and Examnaion Boand    MOE              x
(NAEB) appointed.
Membem of Fout Asueat Woving Group (AWGs)           NAEB         x
appointed.__                                            ____
|Links eblished with Cowncil fot Occupationda Stands   Drector   x
and Assesmet (COSO                                  NAEB
Mechanis approved for deval%pmon, review, and       MOE          LoEf
apptova.                                                                  ..
NAEDB i;staed.                                      MOE          LEf          _
Natonal Assessmn and Exminan Srvic (NABS            MOE          Laf
established.                                                                                        _
TwenAy three membe of AWAs tained In mnaqgemnt      NAEB and                x       x        x
of assesn change.                                   Inst.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _abroa~~~~~~~~~bwd)l                             
Lids established  nd intained wih curricum and      Four                    x       x        x       x       x
textbook weking grop,.                             dcAWpron
of AWGs
Devwep Romanm     c <pabilt: *Wcaavud luaarwmn
and eras,.
Twenty the membe of AWGs rined In priciples of    IAsts.                    x       x        x
assssent, constucon of exam syllbuses, desgnp and   abroad
administrtion of examinations, and conpurizalon.
Fifty MOE ad ES staffand (1/4 5-12 teacheb) oented    Diecorof              x       x        x       x       x
to modemneducatina assesmnt                         NABS
Eihq teacher  ns  tained in modern educadonal       Spcals                          x
mea_remeL                                           from abroad
Agree on aauasAlmenpwackesjir I5-20 axmbsabke
-U                                                  _  _ _
Examiable conn o examinble wabtsaeed.               AWO with
amd
Textbook
I  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _       _   mCIb-wcmp.
Exam syUabu   nd sppt mate  delivered to            NAS_                                     x       x
schools for n-r    tacher aning 
hutfurd NalA ES
Premise loctd.                                      DOP          x
Renovatoncompleted.                                _____                    x
Equipmentinstald                                     irctor                         x
NABS
Sixtytwostaffappoinutd                              DIrctor      6          10       14      15      17
NABS
Devdop NAESf=r ku=v-s,k  =ed =a                                                                              _



-t           - D                                                  = _ _          _-     
i                                              - ---- -  -    -------
.~~8 _4
_I -          --                                     -                  _ -    -   -   -_                          -
t L84 4 8



- 106 -                                     ANNEX 14
Page 7 of 10
Sub-Component/Activities and Performance Indicators  Unit        1993       1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
______________________________________Responsible
LE. TEXTBOOKS
To pro-ide diversiiy of upgraded axtbeooks which meet
new currlum requirements.
Textbook approval board (TAB).                      MOE          x
Posts on TAB advertised.                            DOR          x            -       -      x        -       -
TAB Secretariat established.                        DOR          x
TAB subject panels for gr 1-i2 established.         TAB          x          x       x        x
Personnel selected for TAB subject panels.          TAB          x          x       x= x
Approvals systems in other countries visited by six TAB  TAB     x
and panel members.
New system announced of transfer of subs.dy to school  Dept. of  x
level.                                              Fin. of
MOE
Criteria agreed for submission and selection of textbooks.   TAB  x
Meetings held to explain new system to pubishers.   TAB          x
Approved curriculum program(s) sent to TAB.         CYB          x          x       x        x
Publisher invited to submit textbook prposals.      TAB          x          x       x        x
Meetings held of TAB and subject selection panels.  TAB                     x       x        x
Lists of approved textbooks published.              TAB                     x       x        x
Five staff added to Dept. of Finance in the MOE     DOR                     x
Contracts issued to publishers for titles approved.  Dept. of               x       x        x       x
Development fiuding provided to publishers of approved    Dept. of          x       x        x       x
titles.                                             Furnce
Training provided to approved publishes of approved  PCU                    x       x        x       x       x
titles.
Supp:y contracts issued to publishers of approved titles.  Dept. of         x       x x      x              7
Fiane
Partial advance payments made to publishers of approved    Dept of          x       x        x       x
titles.                                             Fance 
Textbook budgets announced to schools.              Dept. of     x          x       x        x       x       x
Finance     ___
Textbook inventories conducted in each school.      School                  x       x        x       x       x#
Head
Teachers trained in selection of textbooks.         In-service              x       x        x       x       x
techer
tralaing
unito at
CCDs
Standard order form designed for school use.        Dept ofx
Fnance



- 107 -                                  ANNE  14
Page 8 of 10
Sub-Conont/Activitsand Perfomnce Indiators           Unit         1993        1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Resposible
Textbook exhibitions ornied in all judebt.          TAB                      x           x    x        x
throug 41
rates
Orders submitld to pubihea.                          School                           x       x       x        x
heads to
Dapt-
FinMae4 of
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ M O E
ExVpert prvided frm abroad to advise on distribution.  TA                             x       x       x
Quaiy of fnisd tbooks varified.                     TAB                               x       x       x        x
Delvery to schools verified.                         School                           x       x       x        x
heads to
Dept. of
;Fnance of
MOE
Publisher paid rmainng balaUce.                      Dept. of                         x       x       x        x
Fuinaceof
MOE
System efiaotvene  monito 'twice a year.             PCU                     x        x       x       x        x
H.A. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND
ALLOCATION, MOBIU7ATION                      |__
1. Iawuw VlUnpanmy NWd eqdo of morn.
.icoa _tn ld r                                      
Study tour to w hree OBCD  oue for Ronian           WB with                  x
financl manes.                                      MOE,
MOP aNd
JES
Policy param    and citia for allocating finds to   TA with                           x
educationl nutkons detemined.                        Dept. of
Finnceof
MOE
Appropiation fomula for preniversity eduaon         TA wih                            x
established.                                         Decpt
MOE
Fifty offcials from MOE nd MOP introduced to new    TA with                           x
budgetproces through naon wmohop.                   MOE and
MOP
2. hw  8Ran          em Mnags* w__
Training ad equipmentpriorities messed.             TA                                x
Pdiories ideatified and ena  traiig teams orand.    TA                                x
Pilot ting modules developed and equpmn  rdered.    TA                                x                 -
nit grup Of 100  tionl levl and judet levd officbls    Ctal                           x
tained in baic financial managemt.                  tai



- 108 -                                   ANNEX 14
Page 9 of 10
Sub-Component/Activticsad I'formHance indrs        Unit          1993      1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Reapnible
Long-term training plan fomultd for 29,000 ocal level   Dept. of                    x
education managers.                                 FnAce of
MOB                   I
Capacity for regional tainin developed, includng    Six regional                    x
necessary equipment.                                CCDs
Twenty nine thousands managersined.                 Six regiona                              x       x       x
CCDs
3. Use new technolo8iss so bwreare oceIvemns 
One hundred sets of computers provided for naional,  Dept. of                                x
judet, and loeal authorites.                        FnaMn Of
MOE
4. Strengtkenplamng cpatdy. 
Twenty nabonal level offials taind in educatiomW    TA                                               x
phnninsg.                                                                                                           ,
5. Eublishschosonohoringo systm                                               =        =       _      _       _
Improved moning system designed.                    I1S lab for                                      x
MSg nd
Four workhops on system held for cental offiEW  (1)  TA                                              x
and judet officials (3).
One hundred computer sets eupplied to national judet, and    Adh . Unit,                     x       x
local authorities.                                  Dept. of
MOE
Information based developed, data collecton system  TA with                                  x       x
designed, a  analytil techniques used.              IeS od
Dept. of
Fnance of
MOE
Schoo monitoring and impwoveme  system Impemeted.   Judt                                             x
6. Develop six regiol rsowe cmes.                                                     _
Resource cente visited in oher counwies (six persons                        x
from 1ES and MOE). 
Cents equipped with material.                       Adm. Unt                        x
and Dept.
of Finae
of MOE
7. Conduct policy reserh_
Seminar on in   ionexperience on decentaiztion      Dept. of                x
conducted for 20 policymanub.                       FiAnc, of
MOE
Two OECD countris visited by S naional officals.    TA with                 x
MNS, Dept.
Finance Of
MOE,°
MOP



- 109 -                                      ANNEX 14
Page 10 of 10
SubComponent/Activitiesand Perfonnance Indicators    Unit          1993       1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Respomible
Studies conducted on refonm and decentralization.    EES                              x
S. Improw Resoure MobilUzaon
Policy seminar conducted on resource mubilization for  TA and IES   x
pro-umtvasity education.
Studies carried out on feasibility of earmated local  TA and ES              x
education levies.
Research conducted on user fees for educattonal services    TA and IES                x
beyond conpulsory education level.
Loan programs for low-income famwilies developed;   TA and IES                        x
scholarship programs inproved.
Reseah conducted on educaion-industry relationship.  TA and IES                       x
M-.MtROWEDUCkSARANNEX14.ftV



- 110 -                                    ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 1
ROMAt4A
EDUCATION REORM PROJECT
iorvsin  Plan
Number of taffweek
TlMtNG                        STrAFF                                    of which
Field           HQ           Total
FY9S      Task Manager'                                           6               4           10
liplementatio_ Specalist                               4               3            7
Geeral Education SpeIist                               3                            3
VocationaVrahnical Educatn Specaist                    1                1           2
Textbook Speciat                                       3                1           4
Education Finoane Specilis                             2                            2
Subtotal                                             19               9           28
FY96      Task Manager                                            6               4           10
Inpleentatn Specilist                                  4               3            7
Genal Education SpecIist                               3                            3
VocationalPrechnal Education Specist                   1                1           2
Tetbmook Speoiali                                      3                1           4
Education Funance Specia                               2                            2
Subtotal                                             19               9           28
FY97      Task Manager                                            S               3           8
In)plmentaon Specia                                    3               2            S
Geneu  Eduation Spocat                                 2                            2
Textbook Spoialist                                     2                            3
Educaton Fnance Speiis                                 2                1           2
Subtotal                                             i                6           20
FY98      Tak Managr                                              4               2            6
Impklm _ea    Specat                                   3               2            S
General Educaton Specalist                             2                            2
Texbook Specit                                         2                1            3
Educaon Fnance Specalit                                2                            2
Subal                                                13               5           18
FY99      Task Mangr                                              3               2            5
lmpmeaon Specialt                                      3                2            5
General Education Speciaist                            2                            2
Texbook Specialit                                      2                1           3
Education Fuiance Specialist                           2                            2
Subtotal                                             12               S           17
Th.TU*K Muqrfar ibisp*ctlal*willboa neff umber f lieKuagaR b.M.w  ia. lb. beffmut  =9ezd, *At Irmul '=A
_mbm of ibg dunmd  will be umiemla, La., about am wer *my two m&s
NU0WWcWWANNEsIU



ANN<EX 16--
Page I of 1
ROMANIA
EDUCTIQEREORMPROJ13CT
Bibloqra=hv of Materials In Proeet FSk
1.    Science Curricuum Report, by George Dawson
2.    Interim Report on Curriculum, Development and Teacher Training and inter-Relations with
Assessmet/xamon and Educational Materials, by Simon Hoek and Robert van Oosten
3.    Educational Assessment in Romania: A Strategy for Establishing a National Assessment and
Examinations Service, by George Bethell
4.    Reference Papers on the Introduction and Use of Computers in Schools, by David Walker
5.    Specialist Study on Book Manufacturing, by James Camping
^3.    Educational Materias, by John Wood
7.    Distribution and Bookselling, by Michael Wills
8.    Libraries and Information Provision, by Robert Davies
9.    Finance and Management Specialist Study, by Chris Conolly-Smith
10.   Book Sector Study: Interim Summary Report on Key Issues, by I onal Book
Development Ltd.
11.   Report on Publishing, David Foster
12. Copyright Situatimon, by Lynette Owen
13.   Book Sector Study: Final Summary Report, by interatonal Book Developmenj
14.   Report on Visit to Prepare Textbooks and Supplementary Reading Materals Subcomponent,
by David Foster and Chris Conolly-Smith
15.   Education Finance and Management, by Min Weifang
16.   Report on Education Financing (Resource Allocation) Workshop, by Douglas Windham
17.   The Reform of Education in Romania Conditions and Prospects, by Romania Ministry of
Education and Institute for Education Sciences, 1993
18.   Identification and Transfer of Subsidies for School Textbooks, by Chris Conolly Smith, 1993
19.   Approval and Selection Mechanisms for School Textbooks, by Warren Knock, 1993
Note: Unless otherwise noted, documents were produced in 1992.
M1miducXauuz6.bib



!i.-                         4         
* 3 r01f-
30~IED1    gi    
*g21~ ~~~~~ I-l -~ 



ROANIA EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                                            CHART 2
Orgarization Chart: Mlnstry of Education
AUXT OFFICE~~~~~~~~ MINISTER l
DIVSION OF
INTERNATIONAL                                                                                         O
RELAtIONS
LEGAL
AFfAIRS_
OFFICE
INFORMATION|                                                                                  REfORK COORDINATIN
AND PRESS    l                  i                              |                              MANAGEMENT AND
*EUNIVERSITY EDUCATION        HIGHER EDUICATION                        RES"RCES DEPARTMENT
_DEPARTMENT                  _DEPARTMEN                                  (SERTR OFSAE
(SECREtARY                                                                       Of STATE)  (SECRETARY Of  STATE)
HGENERAL DIVISION      l      dGENERAL DIVEO          |l  .                        
FINANCIAL
STRATEGY            I      AND MATERIAL
DIVISION                   RESOURCES DIVISION
_   ATIOIJL MINORITIES       _RESEARCH AND 0OaTORAL__
DIVISION                      DEGREES DIVISION
-STRATEGY AND                 BUDGET
_  TEACHER TRAINING  |                                          MANAGEMENT
DIVISION            |_REFORM                                                               PERSONNEL OF
__________________                              ~~~~~~~~~RFORItMS           EDUCATIONAL
I_________________                         PROGRAMS                   INSTITUTIONS
EOUCATIONAL MATERIALS |                                         DATA PROCESSING            PERSONNEL OF
SUPPORT DIVISION                                                                           P
-STATISTICS AND               CENTRAL
ANALYSIS                   ADMINISTRATION
-INVESTMENT                FINANCE AND
-LIBRARIES



ROMANIA EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                                                                                 CHART 3
ORGANIZATION CiART FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SECRE-TARY OF ST*ATE fOR REFRM
COORDINATION, MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCES.|
STEERING COMMTrTEE (SC) - IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT OBJECrIVES
The steering committee is mad up of the Project Coordinator and one or two key staff responsible for each sub component.
The SC wll be responIble to a) erure that the OBJECTIVES of the prcject, and of other external or Intenal Investments
are implemented according to the agroed criteria; and b) to coordinate the inmeentaion of the vairous ol$ctv
.urriculum, textbooks, assessmnt etc.) The SC wil report dirctly to the State Secretary of State for Reform,
Mranagment and resoures.
SUiSCOMPONEi                                                  S        S                           PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNrr (PCU)-
In most cases, the staff responsibe or the implmentation of   U        U       U        U          TECHNICAL IMPLMENT4 ION
each ib-component wil be exitig staff of the minFy,B
acmo mV         to the project an a ful     basis, som                                             The PCIJ woul be responsile for al N AMiNISTRATIVE actions
assiped on a paart timce basis. In some cases, additional staff                                    requied to Inplement the project. Such actins may inducde
are requred. Such personnel may ether be addtional stff       C        C       C        C          hIter aila:
recruited as cvil servants, or may be recruited from outside  0        0       0        0          - estabshmn*wt of bidding docmets;
the government on a short tarm or lng term bass.              M        M       M        M          - arrnging for bidding;
Regardess of the actvty piormed by a cvil servant, the        P        p       p        p          - payment of supliers and for services;
project cannot finance any pat of his/her salary. The salwy   0        O       O                   - arrangWig and montoig SC meetings;
d a pson recuied from outside t  chl service w U be           N        N       N        N             ropari to the    demt s  d the 8anl
ofhred a saiay   line wth sindlr salaes paid by the           E        E       E        E          - prepaing project bu ;
private sector for simlar activites and responsibillties.     N        N       N        N              aerpani aocountS
The toam responsible for the impWmentation of each of the sub  T       T       T        T          - labon rth other donors to coord;ate their aYt;ts with
components (team for the implementation of the unicukim                                            t Ion with ofthe rdoors to c te  the c
sub-component, team for the Implementation of tho  txtbocks                                        the objecves of the reform    th projec
sub-cmonent, etc. ) will be respotible to implement their
own mb-component, In accordance wth th decUo and                                                   To perform these tasks, the PCU would comprise five
terms of references contaied in eah of te sb componets                                             services:
project mplementation manual. The tasks to be pfnned by                                            a) accounting service:
each team may include:                                                                             b) procureomnt servce;
- Usts of equipment, furniture etc.                                                                c) architectural /englneering service;
- selectlon of traWng InsWtutes and trainees for overseas                                          d) mnagement s"iport service;
trairdng.                                                                                          e) monitoring services;
- establishment of terms of references for specilists,
incding selection of indvidl specdalist, but excluding                                            In addition the PCJ would employ staff to lse with the
hiring an.' sigNng contracts.                                                                      departments responsible for the implementation of the project.
- preparig and delIvering semhars an trainirng



ROMAtA EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                                                                                 CHART 4
ORNATOlN OPART FOR COPOWNENr f RAIN  QUAtY OF SAC AN  GENER    SECONDARY EDUCATON
NAIONAL COUNOL FOM REFOW                                               bWE  OF ,UCAlION                I
I~'Bi.S OP   ..                                                                                       .m m .
a ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SIRA _                                                                                         #IAT, 
}   NS=UTEFOt   _KASSrUST,                                                    {                  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONSaSTV
moor - l 
+ SaE STB~~~~MUXL ATMM    ANO  T                      S -  (M m-                 RD                         CS)
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                              - \/- ^,   v(tT
COOKNATWON _XWe 1W                         _                    a           WO"_         ASSESS_ 1 1t
~ON         UORO         N   _OOWA9                          (A)   _  t   (AWG)   _   (AW)   WW 3_    P~ aRY                          pm(A*V
ARTMND        ATMAND      P2           CFOnP            AftT Ma mid  Wdft&w        tw%wMe end       (AMe)   SULU?CT       PAL         SM                                                      I
HUMMITKSCENDS             EOtICATEN    E2ERTS    hAnN nf                                      *                 PD sPM  2   2    I     AN(PS I 
WSON                                                                                                  PW~~~ONsuMAg                                 ON IMMt 
Iweon~ ~ O             MO I                   I     IIII                                                  IP        1wEC           vws  
OeN 04        CON         059ERTSON  I *                                    weI5T01    uS2ECT e  W   SUCT Smr I   Panct   rP P  aJECT    I IJS ON SUB    I
I           SUBC. B ISIaE:r  ISAJECT  Xl  9 7  I    91S02   I    RY               DEINN/tES     IA ICa      IPAIEL 4P                IPANEL6 J
WOCN     I                                                                                                                            UCN OIMAN   IRY 
7EACHER ERnI
i     S                                                                        S                                               r I
SW    S  SU~~Li~  ~I                                                                                              IJ



220   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W300
UKRAINE                                 __                                                      ROMANIA
| 48                                        <   -                       .- 5                   ToOEDUCATION REFORM
PROJECT
Major Casa Corpului Didactica
~a/ 4tu   Nr illi                               Suceva          aBotosaiOn                            (Teachers Center)
HUNGARY                             Mae        BiaMr,-University Centers for Vocotional
MARL                              ,I                                                                           Teocher Troining
To Deb
-              O               ~~~~~~ ~ ~~SA-,AJ 's        -     v--\                                               si    .                     Roads
,X>rod'e-a                 De.                                           .. ........ >   <txBistnta                 0    Towns and Cities
g   31HOR'.           ax   i    V                                      -    icitra       J               J                *    National Capital
LX>~/Cluj                                             am
CLW   -   Ncpoca                               I     Neamt                            *                   District (Judet) Boundaries
,<               TurudMS /u                                             Baca            V     ,,                    International Boundaries
ToSzeged                                                                              A  ARAD  K  \1Cs                              /                      Rivers
'w0r  -_6Arad                           ALBA                                         \Birlad
-460\t ___                                      DoMedias                                                                                                                            46'-
\   -   -  -   - - o TIMIS        o      <       i      i             ~            kSit                o4CA >GALATI                                     
%imisoora             Hunedora                      si                             Gheorghe          ocsani*,
HUNEDOARA
Resito                                        (
-SLOVAit   UKR esita  f E     Craiova4-                                  G/LlFswGl J        ~>                   CON5TAN A t?consh-Braiia
CARAS-   \           GO_- -irgu Jiu       r              ,                                           RRAILA t? Gi rgiu
SEVERN                                   9ieee                                                                         ULE
--itz. \(Budwre*.   ,O'                              NtJX96 ~I EA.            itesti                                                                             io
Ft.REP                            TnuSenUtcn
OF
YUGOSLAVIA                             ED IT                                                                                    \ Bo
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~'
~L~Jw~N~rt!   UKRAINE                                                                                         CALARAS-
D.riaa                                                                           COSAT    Constanta                       4
HUNGARY:-                           4                                                'L0,,1A1G
_uchaRst                                                                                        se /Toue                                                The boundarles.  coor
DM94CXother infm1on.  how
.A              ~~SEA                                                                           TVefikoTarnova                                            onom  0  this map, do  not
I "4 YUGSlAVIA   ULGARIA                                                                                       aany judgment an thelea 
BULGARIA                     0          50          10                            stalUS Of aytrlo
26'        JaILOMETERS                                1%=boundarie.  of0
DMBVA%99BLK 3O/994



