Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24553-RO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37240)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50.0 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
08/22/2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2002)
Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
I Leu = US$ 0.0000332
US$ 1 = Lei 33,150
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CCD                 Casa Corpului Didactic (Teacher Centers)
CIDA                Canadian Agency for International Development
COSA                Occupational Standards and Assessment Council
DIA                 Data Interchange Agreement
EDP                 Editura Didactica si Pedagogica (State Publishing House)
EMIS                Education Management Information System
ERP                 Education Reforn Project
ESPP                Employment and Social Protection Project
ETF                 European Training Foundation
EU                  European Union
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IES                 Institute for Educational Sciences
MER                 Ministry of Education and Research
MPF                 Ministry of Public Finance
NAEB                National Assessment and Examination Board
NAES                National Assessment and Examination Service
NBDRE               National Board for the Development of Rural Education
OECD                Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PISA                Project for Intemational Students' Assessment
RTSU                Research and Technical Services Unit
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
TA                  Technical Assistance
TAB                 Textbooks Approvals Board
TAU                 Transitional Assessment Unit
TIMSS               Third Intemational Mathematics and Science Survey
VET                 Vocational Education Training
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:  Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader:   Ana Maria Sandi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
EDUCATION REFORM
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 19
6. Sustainability                                                                    21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     24
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   26
9. Partner Comments                                                                  27
10. Additional Information                                                           28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                41
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                                42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008784                                      Project Name: EDUCATION REFORM
Team Leader: Ana Maria Sandi                             TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: August 22, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: EDUCATION REFORM                             L/CITF Number: CPL-37240
Country/Department: ROMANIA                                            Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Primary education (40%); Secondary education
(40%); Central government administrationt (11/o);
Tertiary education (9%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/17/1992                            Effective: 10/07/1994        10/07/1994
Appraisal:  03/01/1993                               MTR: 11/15/1996          04/21/1997
Approval:  04/05/1994                             Closing: 03/31/2000         02/28/2002
Borrower/Inmplemnenting Agency: ROMANIA/MIN. OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                        Michael H. Wiehen
Sector Manager:      Ernesto P. Cuadra                        Ralph W Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:  Ana Maria Sandi                          Terrice Bassler
ICR Primary Author:  Mariana Doina Moarcas; Ana
Maria Sandi; Johanna Crighton
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUJN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Peiformance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the education reform project (ERP) was to support the Government's strategy for
reform of pre-university (basic and secondary) education. The specific project objectives were to: (a)
update and improve quality of basic and secondary education by strengthening curriculum and teacher
training, assessment and examinations, and textbook quality; and (b) develop and introduce measures that
will increase efficiency in the management of public resources for education.
Background. The Romanian education system had a long tradition of good performance and connection to
European standards. The first legislation on public education for the modem Romanian state was issued in
March 1864. Subsequent laws followed, an important one being the Spiru Haret Secondary and Higher
Education Act (1898). By the end of the Second World War, Romania had an advanced education system,
with a diversified curricula. However, after 1945, during the communist period this tradition gradually
eroded. Starting with 1948, education, like other sectors, fell under the Sovietization period. The content of
education was drastically modified, in order to convey the ideological messages of the time. Another
difficult period followed during the Ceausescu regime when education content was again revised in line
with the new ideological slogans and almost all upper secondary schools became technical. More generally,
during the later years of the communist period, Romania had iived in virtual isolation from the more
gradual changes during the late 1980s that eased the transition in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
After 1990, during the initial years of transition, the national output declined by more than one-third, and
recovered only very slowly thereafter, so that by the year 2000 real GDP still stood at only 82.9% of its
1990 level. Industrial output fell by 50% in the first three years of transition; former employment structures
collapsed, enterprises closed, unemployment rose to 10% by 1992. At the same time, budget resources
shrank, and with them the allocations to public services, including education. However, the country has
registered economic recovery starting with 2000 when it reached 1.6 % economic growth and accelerated to
5.3% in 2001.
After the fall of Ceausescu's regime in 1989, the successor govermnent that received the first World Bank
mission emphasized the need to rehabilitate social services, and a broad review of human resources was
undertaken along with the 1991 country economic memorandum (Romania - Human Resources and the
Transition to a Market Economy, The World Bank, 1992). The first preparation mission for the ERP took
place in November 1991, with the aim to assist Romania's education system with a comprehensive reform
to meet the country's new needs. The Bank's support was asked since it was clear that the education
sector's shrinking resources could not provide the powerful, across-the-board "push" to bring reforms.
Comprehensive reform approach. The original design and objectives of the ERP had to be bold and
comprehensive, since the needs were such that a piece-meal or phased approach would have been
inappropriate. The identification and preparation missions that took place between November 1991 and
early 1993 were faced with crisis conditions in virtually every part of the education sector, but eventually
focused on improving the quality, content and delivery of compulsory education (grades 1-8), and
reforming the secondary vocational education. The initial size of the proposed loan was US$150 million.
The project was focused on curriculum reform, reform of the initial and in-service teacher training, new
forms of student assessment, reform of textbook provision and delivery, development of occupational
standards, and improvement of efficiency in finance and management of education. Other components were
dedicated to teacher re-training and development, provision of IT and reform of the vocational secondary
education. However, when the ERP was finally negotiated, the size of the loan was reduced to US$50
million, with a Govemnment contribution of US$23.5 million. The Project budget for teacher training, for
example, was cut drastically to a total of US$5.4 million, because the Government anticipated that teacher
- 2 -



development could be met from its own resources once the economy improved (this proved to be an
unrealistic expectation, one which later affected some aspects of ERP implementation, see below).
Provision of IT to schools was also excluded, since this was considered premature. Another substantial
reduction was achieved by shifting the secondary vocational comporient to a project financed through a
parallel grant of 25 million ECU from EU/PHARE. Nevertheless the component remained connected with
ERP through the work on occupational standards.
The ERP objectives reflected the priorities identified both by the Goverrnment of the time (1993) and by the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, which had been developed in 1993, in connection with the Romania
Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project and was included as Part II of the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President of the IBRD to the Executive Directors for the Petroleum Sector
Rehabilitation Loan to Romania (March 14, 1994; Report No. P-6 10 I-RO). The CAS included a module
on Human Resources specifically addressing basic education reform issues. They were consistent with the
Govemrnment's strategy to strengthen and re-orient Romania's human resources in line with the needs of a
democratic society and market-led economy, to improve quality and remove unnecessary barriers to access,
and to make optimum use of scarce human and financial resources by strengthening capacity in finance and
management at all levels (central, judet, local and school-level).
It was a complex, demanding project aiming at a comprehensive large scale reform basically touching upon
most education features. It finally included two major components with eight sub-components (see
description bellow). The ERP was the first project to be implemented by the Ministry of Education and
Research (MER); it entailed a significant coordination effort through the implementing unit to ensure the
correlation of components/ sub-components teams, various working groups, councils set up within the
project framework and comprising IES specialists and professionals from the system.
The objectives were quite broad, which allowed a great deal of useful flexibility in implementation over the
(unusually long) life of a Project initiated essentially in late 1991 and closed in early 2002, under four
different Ministers and eight different Secretaries of State for Pre-University Education.
Since agreement on a formal set of performance indicators and a logframe were not required at the time of
project appraisal, the key monitoring indicators included in the project monitoring plan were rather sketchy
and did not offer a solid basis for evaluation. With hindsight, a more rigorous assessment of risks and
implementing capacities, and more specific benchmarks for evaluation, would have been helpful. The
original framing of the ERP was done by MER with professionals and researchers, mostly staff from the
Institute for Educational Sciences (an institution established after 1990, with young, reform-oriented staff),
Ownership of ERP objectives was far stronger among professionals and researchers than it was among
Ministry personnel (dominated at that time by administrative staff).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Conmponents:
The ERP had two main components with a total baseline cost of US$73.5 million:
I.     Raising Quality of Basic and Secondary Education (US$65.6 million)
II.    Improving Education Finance and Management (US$7.8 million)
Component I was structured initially into five sub-components:
- 3 -



A.     Curriculum Development (US$3.2 million)
B.     Teacher Training (US$6.2 million)
C.     Assessment and Examinations (US$6.8 million)
D.     Occupational Standards and Assessment (US$2.3 million)
E.     Textbooks (US$47.2 million)
Component II was structured into two sub-components:
A.     Resource Allocation, Management and Mobilization (US$6.0 million)
B.     Reform Co-ordination and Implementation (US$1.8 million)
Component I aimed to assist reform of the levers of educational change at the national level, in the
interrelated areas of: curriculum, teacher training, assessment, textbooks and occupational standards.
Component II aimed to introduce mechanisms to increase efficiency in resource allocation, management
and mobilization through: (a) revision of budget appropriation formulas and increasing expenditure
authority of inspectorates and schools; (b) strengthening the financial management and planning capacity
through training and equipment upgrading in educational institutions at the national,judet and school level;
(c) developing resource centers for education managers at regional level, in existing institutions; (d)
introducing a school monitoring system to improve data collection and analysis for feedback to schools and
as input to policy- making; (e).carry out feasibility studies to formulate new policies on resource
mobilization and cost recovery in education; and (f) support the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in
developing its capacity for reform coordination and management.
In terms of design, the objectives of both main Components were in line with the Project objectives set out
above, and with the Romanian Govenmnent's priorities of raising the quality and supply of human
resources needed for Romania's transition towards a democratic society and a market economy. They also
supported the expressed need to improve efficiency and accountability in the allocation and use of scarce
public resources.
The SAR states that these objectives would be achieved "by strengthening capability, efficiency and public
accountability of national institutions and by fostering change at school level", and that, to the extent
possible, the Project would "build upon existing institutions, the many positive features of the present
system, and the strong educational tradition in Romania". These broad guidelines have been observed
throughout Project implementation, although in some cases it was found necessary to create new national
institutions in order to ensure implementation and sustainability of some sub-components (for example the
National Assessment and Examination Service (NAES) in sub-component I-C and the National Curriculum
Council in sub-component I-A).
As already mentioned, this first project in the education sector in Romania addressed an ambitious
comprehensive reform aiming at improving the delivery of education services and determining the quality of
learning outcomes; the implementing agency had to run complex activities actually covering the entire
education sector. The value added by the Bank was ensured by: (i) its extensive experience with
comprehensive education reforms in other countries constantly shared with the Borrower; and (ii) provision
of high quality expertise in specialized education areas.
3.4 Revised Compo7zents:
During project implementation, a new sub-component was included under Component I - Raising Quality
of Basic and Secondary Education: Development of Rural Education with a total cost of US$11.5
- 4 -



million (US$9.9 million reallocated from the loan proceeds and US$1.6 million from counterpart funds).
Revision Rationale. The additional rural education sub- component was a pilot sub-component introduced
as a practical response to the rapidly declining quality of education in rural areas. In March 1999, upon
visiting Washington, the Minister of Education requested the Bank to provide a substantial new loan for
rural education, given the increasing discrepancies between urban and rural education. Based on further
consultations with the Bank team and management, the possibility to re-allocate funds in the ERP
amounting to US$11.5 million was identified, in order to finance the emergency pilot sub-component
focused on rural schools in eight counties. The Ministry of Public Finance (MPF) on behalf of the
Borrower requested: (i) a one and a half year extension of the project and (ii) use of reallocated funds for
the new rural education pilot sub-component (on July 30, 1999 and December 7, 1999). The Bank team
carefully revised the project status, activities remaining under each component, activities under the
proposed rural education sub-component, their cost, time frame with detailed budget and implementation
plan. The approval of the Regional Vice-President (RVP) was required since the amount which had to be
re-allocated to the new sub-component exceeded 5% of the total project loan amount. The RVP approval
was on January 28, 2000; finally, the Bank has formally approved on March 14, 2000 MPF's extension
request of the project closing date (from March 30, 2000 to September 30, 2001) and agreed with the use
of re-allocated funds in the amount of US$ 11.5 million for. a new pilot sub-component "Development of
Rural Education". Under the Pilot quality issues of compulsory education (grades 1-8) in rural schools in
eight counties (out of 42) were addressed. The main activities were: (i) teachers and principals training (ii)
provision of basic learning materials; (iii) provision of equipment to be used by teachers for the production
of teaching materials; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation. The new sub-component was in line with the
overall objective of the project, which remained unchanged.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Even though no formal Quality at Entry criteria were available at the time of project preparation and
appraisal, this report follows in its evaluation the Bank current standards. Quality at entry is rated
satisfactory based on: (i) the consistency of the project objectives.with the priorities identified by the
Government (in the White Paper on Education issued in 1993), the Bank's sector review (Romania -
Human Resources and the Transition to a Market Economy, 1992) and the subsequent CAS (1994); (ii) the
adequacy of the project design given the needs of the education sector at the time of project preparation;
and (iii) the realism of needs assumptions, implementation arrangements, system priorities which were in
line with the situation in the country; the SAR clearly described the envisaged benefits, also taking into
consideration potential risks and appropriate measures to mitigate them.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
The Project has satisfactorily achieved its major objective to support the Government's strategy for reform
of pre-university education. Specific objectives were achieved related to: (a) updating and improving the
quality of basic and secondary education by strengthening curriculum, teacher training, assessment and
examinations, textbook quality and occupational standards; and (b) developing and introducing measures
that will increase efficiency in the management of public resources for education. The project's major
outcome is the shift that took place in the education sector, its departure from a centralized system based on
a standardized curriculum, a single textbook per subject, and ineffective student evaluation systems to a
reformed system, with a flexible curriculum framework, alternative textbooks and a modem evaluation
system. As described in OECD's Education Review Report (CCNM/DEELSA/ED(99)40, September
1999), "The reform is truly comprehensive; it touches on curriculum, teachers, textbooks, admission
policies, financing, staffpolicies and nearly all other aspects of the educational enterprise. The reform is
- 5 -



both ambitious and challenging, but grounded in the recognition that such reform is necessary for
Romania to face the challenges of the transition to a market economy and a democratic society. "
The ERP objectives were fully relevant to the country needs and consistent with the country and sector
assistance strategies at the time of project appraisal and appropriate to the overall Bank's goal for poverty
alleviation; improvements in the policy environment at sector level were specifically addressed by the CAS
in 1994 through a dedicated module for Human Resources development which included education.
Education reform objectives in support of the Government's updated education strategy continue to be
relevant to the current CAS (May 22, 2001, Report No. 22180-RO), specifically addressing education
equity issues in rural areas.
Considering the difficult political, social and economic conditions in Romania during the ERP period, the
project achievements are commendable, the more so, as towards the end of the project they were reflected in
the education legislation.
The most significant strength, and possibly the most important and lasting legacy of ERP has been the
identification and development of a cadre of competent professionals in curriculum design, educational
measurement, teacher development and textbook quality. Their value to the Romanian education system,
and indeed to educational deyelopment in the region generally, has been significant and should remain a
valued asset for the future. Several other Bank-financed education projects have benefited from their
experience, for example through study visits to Romania and participation in European and international
professional associations, where Romanian experts play a leading role (for example, the National
Assessment and Examination Service (NAES) was a founding member of the Association for Educational
Assessment-Europe with 31 member countries, and a senior staff member of NAES serves as its first
Vice-President).
The most significant weaknesses have been: (i) insufficient "ownership" of Project objectives and processes
by second level decision-makers in the education system and at local level; (ii) lack of focused outcome
performance indicators in the SAR; and (iii) changing, politicized, and often unclear priorities of successive
MER leadership and teams. At times, pressures to meet short-term targets focused attention more on
immediate "products" than on process and sustainability.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Raising Quality of Basic and Secondary Education (US$65.6 million).
The overall achievement of objectives under Component I is rated satisfactory, with all outputs under the
sub-components being reached. At times, it has been difficult to maintain the principle of
"inter-related"-ness of all sub-components, in particular the four "quality" sub-components (curriculum,
textbooks, teacher training, assessment). Some implemented at a faster, steadier rate than others. The six
sub-components have separate evaluations, as described bellow. (Also see Annex 2 on project costs and
financing for actual/latest estimates by components and sub-components.)
Sub-component A: Curriculum Development (US$3.2 million). The sub-component objective was to
assist in the preparation, validation and implementation of new curriculum programs, based on a new
educational philosophy for grades I-XII. By the end of the Project, 66 new curricula would be in use in the
schools. In reality, a total of 443 draft subject curricula have been developed, by working groups including
more than 1,000 teachers and researchers, and an approval process was led by the National Curriculum
Board (set up in 1994 as the National Curriculum and Teacher Training Board, but transformed in 1997
- 6 -



in two separate boards) and involved some 700 specialists at all educational levels; 391 curricula have been
so far approved by MER.
Although initial curriculum work produced new subject curricula, by 1997 it was acknowledged that true
curriculum reform (rather than change, by subject) would require the creation of a whole new curriculum
structure, aimed at developing higher-level thinking skills needed for the "knowledge economy", and
allowing teachers at school level to use their own creativity in implementing it. The result was the
development and publication of the National Curriculum Framework (1998), implemented from the
1999/2000 school year. The new framework emphasizes the development of competences, skills and
attitudes, clear curricular and achievement standards, student-centered learning, and relevance to social
issues and real life.
The National Curriculum Framework is a major achievement, created entirely by Romanian experts, but
aimed explicitly at compatibility with European practice and standards of quality. It also supports the goal
of greater local involvement and relevance, by dividing the curriculum into a compulsory core
(approximately 70% of available instructional time) and allowing schools to use about 30% for
school-based activities. This new flexibility was enthusiastically received by many teachers, especially
those (approximately 8,000) who had training support (in March 2000) from the National Curriculum
Council. An Impact Study conducted in 2001 on curriculum reform surveyed 352 schools (grades I-VIII).
The findings of the report The School at the Crossroads: Change and Continuity in the Compulsory
Education Curriculum, Ministry of Education and Research, Center Education 2000+, National
Curriculum Council, Bucharest 2001 were publicly discussed and widely disseminated. The full report
offers some 2,000 pages of data, based on questionnaires filled in by more than 20,000 teachers, principals
and students in grades VIII and XII. The curricula were brought in line with the new curricular philosophy
focusing on the acquisition by students of competence and higher-level thinking skills, rather than the
memorization of large amounts of factual knowledge. This is entirely in line with international trends, and
supports the Government's efforts to improve Romania's human resource and reduce youth unemployment.
The design of the project was appropriate for achieving the objective. The working groups that involved
hundreds of teachers and researchers, the coordination process ensured by the National Curriculum
Council, and the conceptually strong National Curriculum Framework make sustainability of ERP's
curriculurn reform effort likely. However, the final measure of success will depend upon the curricula being
taught in the class rooms and learned by students.
Sub-component B: Teacher Training (US$6.2 million). The objectives of this sub-component were to:
(a) support detailed planning of the re-structuring of pre-service teacher training, and (b) develop the
capacity of the Casa Corpului Didactic (CCDs or teacher centers) to deliver in-service training support to
teachers in the introduction of new curricula, assessment, and textbooks. In relation to objective (a), at the
time of Project appraisal, the Ministry of Education intended to shift the training of primary school teachers
from pedagogical upper secondary schools to university level institutions (colleges), and to restructure the
education of secondary school teachers. In relation to objective (b), the sub-component aimed to strengthen
the CCD network and equip 6 major CCDs to become regional centers for reform-related in-service
training.
The achievement of the sub- component objectives is rated satisfactory. This sub-component started very
slowly. Little, if anything, was achieved between 1994 and the MTR in April 1997. No teacher in-service
training was financed by the Project during this time, and the only disbursement (less than 1% of the
available $5.4 million) was for provision of computer equipment to pedagogical faculties in six universities.
- 7 -



The late arrival of TA, due to a two-year dispute over Romanian taxation laws (which also affected the
assessment and textbook sub-components) was a factor, but so was a lack of early commitment of the
MER for the reform of the pre- and in-service teacher training systems. Since 1997, the teacher training
sub-component has worked intensively on carrying out larger-scale in-service efforts, notably an
"emergency" series of cascade-style orientation workshops during the summer of 1998 in preparation for
the introduction of the National Curriculum Framework. Despite the low quality of the TA, efforts to
reform the teacher training system started after 1999.
Pre-Service Teacher Training. The work on re-organizing pre-service (initial) teacher training started with
the first changes (to content, and balance between theoretical and practical aspects of initial training)
implemented in the 1999/2000 school year. Unfortunately, an initiative to change the law to introduce a
standards-based training and evaluation system for teachers (Emergency Govermmental Order 91/2000)
was rejected by Parliament in 2001.
The National Center for Teacher Training, however, was set up by Government Resolution 604 in June
2001, as an institution subordinate to the MER. One of the major achievements under the sub-component
so far has been the development and publication of the Professional Teaching Standards (MER 2002,
published in Romanian and English, 21,000 copies distributed), which contains standards for the teaching
profession and a standards-based approach to teacher certification for "Definitivat" (the "Definitivat" is
Romania's "definitive" certification for the teaching profession, awarded after a probation period of 2 years
of classroom teaching). The (proposed) new-style assessment has three parts: a portfolio produced by the
junior teacher, a special inspection of classroom perfonnance, and a written examination set by a special
commission of three persons (two academics and a school teacher in the same discipline as the examinee).
All three components are weighted equally. This document is in line with MER's "Strategy for the
pre-service and in-service training of teaching and educational management personnel of the pre-university
education in Rornania", which aims at "professionalizing the teaching career in Romania'. To support this
new approach, 464 faculty members in 14 university centers were trained as mentor teachers, and 57
university methodologists received training connected with the new Definitivat standards. The MER has
indicated that the Standards for the Teaching Profession and the new-style Definitivat will be debated
nationally with stakeholder groups. If accepted, they should then be referenced to the content of initial
teacher training programs.
In-Service Teacher Training. In practice, ERP reforms will need to be implemented by Romania's 255,000
serving teachers, most of whom have themselves been trained before 1990, on the basis of a different
philosophy of education. An efficient system of teacher in-service training was therefore a Project priority,
but legislation adopted in 1995 hampered the sub-component. Universities were made responsible not only
for initial preparation (pre-service training) of teachers, but also for their professional (in-service)
development. The Project's emphasis on the classroom-level delivery of education required a closer link
with the day-to-day work of teachers; the involvement of inspectorates, methodologists, and Casa Corpului
Didactic (CCDs) was vital, if all serving teachers were to be reached over the ERP period. The status of
CCDs and other providers in in-service training of teachers has since been clarified, and the recent
Ministerial Order on compulsory teacher development (2001, see below) seeks to combine the academic
strengths of the university faculties with the practical experience available locally. The Order stipulates
compulsory in-service training for all serving teachers every 5 years. Ninety credits of training are to be
earned: 46 credits given by universities, 44 by the CCDs.
The capacity of CCDs to deliver in-service teacher development was enhanced by training staff at 42
CCDs and selected rural resource centers, and by providing the equipment and technology needed to
- 8 -



produce teaching materials and deliver high-quality training to teachers. A strategy to use distance
in-service training methods is under implementation. A cadre of 49 certified national trainers with generic
skills in teacher development now exists, and guides for trainers and teachers have been printed and
distributed (6 titles, 57,000 copies total).
Time pressures made it necessary to place too much initial emphasis on "doing training" (for example, the
emergency cascade-style orientation days in the summer of 1998). The sub-component's main objectives -
of delivering systematic reform-related in-service training, and changing teacher training systems -were
eventually addressed, but not until very late in the ERP. It was therefore necessary for other
sub-components, notably assessment and curriculum, to take on reform-related training activities that were
not part of their own component activities or budgets. Much more guidance for teachers is needed: most
received only one or two days of orientation (not "training") covering both new curricula and new
approaches to exams. Some did not receive any support at all.
An impact study prepared by the TA provider (EDC, 2002 Romania Education Reform Project: Teacher
Training Component April 1998 - December 2001. Impact Study. Education Development Center, Inc.,
Global Learning Group. Boston: February 5, 2002.) considers sustainability of the sub-component's
outcomes "likely" because of: (a) the large amount of training and materials delivered since 1998; (b) a
Ministerial Order that establishes the National Center for Teacher Training, makes it responsible for
accrediting in-service programs, and makes development training compulsory for all teachers every 5 years;
and (c) the possible acceptance of the Teachers Professional Standards to improve teacher pre-service
programs and "Definitivat" requirements for certification.
Sub-component C: Assessment and Examinations (US$6.8 million). The objectives of this
sub-component were: (i) to improve the technical quality of examinations and assessment instruments,
especially for the existing national examinations at the end of compulsory schooling (Grade VI/X
interface) and the end of upper secondary schooling (Grade XIlhigher education interface); (ii) to develop
assessment objectives based on the objectives of the new curriculum; (iii) to set up a National Assessment
and Examinations Board (NAEB) to guide and coordinate assessment working groups to work closely with
the curriculum, teacher training and textbook sub-components; (iv) to establish a semi-autonomous
National Assessment and Examination Service (NAES) with its own budget, director, premises, equipment,
and trained professional and technical staff. The SAR states that by the end of the Project, the following
were to be achieved: (a) national standards agreed for each of the main curriculurn subjects in basic and
general secondary education; and (b) teachers supplied with support materials on the new assessment
programs and packages. Participation in intemational assessments of education (such as TIMSS and
OECD/PISA) was also to be supported. The objectives of the Assessment and Examinations sub-
component were in line with the overall Project objectives and with the main objective for Component I.
The achievement of these objectives has been highly satisfactory and in many respects, expectations have
been exceeded. The NAEB and NAES were established formally in 1994, and the NAES's legal status
affirmed by Government Ordinance 327 in 1998. The NAES is now staffed with 45 persons, 30 of them
professionals with specialist training in educational measurement. They have their own, renovated building
with up-to-date equipment and good security arrangements. The June 2002 Capacitate (Grade VIII)
examinations had 310,000 candidates each taking exams in three subjects (Romanian language and
literature; Mathematics; and History or Geography); students of national minorities take one more test, in
mother tongue language and literature. For the end-Grade XII (Baccalaureat) examnination in June 2002,
150,000 candidates took exams in a range of subjects. Instead of the 15-20 subjects planned for in ERP,
about 100 were developed for the Baccalaureat alone, and 1 00 (instead of the 23 planned) working group
members were trained in test design and construction. At least 25,000 teachers trained as markers or
-9-



supervisors (invigilators) assisted in the running of the exams. In addition to what was foreseen in the SAR,
the NAES is responsible for the VocationaVTechnical Baccalaureate in as many as 16 different
occupational groupings, each with a large number of sub-specializations; and for conducting sample-based
national assessments at Grade IV in Romanian language and Maths; for setting the questions for the
Olympiads; and for participation in OECD/PISA-Plus. The NAES has published guides and handbooks for
teachers and examiners - more than 100 titles with on average 20,000 copies, for a total of 2 million copies
distributed to judets, CCDs and schools. The legal, financial and professional position of the NAES now
seems secure.
The path has not, however, been smooth. The SAR recognizes (as one of the Project risks) "the weak
institutional capacity of MOE (now MER) to implement highly inter-dependent reform components in an
efficient and well-integrated manner", a risk that manifested itself in this sub-component (and also in the
teacher training sub-component, see above). Between 1994 and 1997/98, there was only a small
"Transitional Assessment Unit" (TAU) housed in one (later two) room(s) in the Institute for Educational
Sciences. The staff was tiny (starting with 2 or 3 part-time, and growing to only 5 full-time people by
1997/98). The arrival of much-needed TA was (as with other sub-components) delayed by several years,
although some TAU members were able to obtain training abroad funded outside the ERP. Because there
was almost no room, very little equipment could be procured and installed. Security arrangements were not
up to standard. The delay in the adoption of the Education Law (1995) left several assessment-related
questtons unanswered - for example, the draft Law required a new examination at the end of Grade VIII
(the present Capacitate), but for several years its legal status and scope were uncertain.
The breakthrough came in 1998, first with the fonnal confirmation of a National Assessment and
Examination Service (Serviciul National de Evaluare si Examinare, SNEE), as a semi-autonomous part of
the MER with its own Director, building, staff, and budget. The professional competence of the
five-member TAU had grown to an impressive level, but the unit needed to expand to provide a credible
national service in time to support the new Capacitate examination required by law from 1999, as well as
new, reform-based Baccalaureat examinations (oral and written) from 2000. In addition, the information
gained from periodic sample-based Grade IV assessments had become increasingly important to the
Ministry in monitoring educational standards. The second important step was the recruitment of new staff
members. The third "push" came from the arrival of competent TA, with an intensive work program based
on a "training-with-production" approach, whereby each training input was directly related to specific
NAES outputs, such as the setting of assessment objectives, writing of subject syllabuses, preparation and
piloting of the new examinations, preparation of general and specific guides for teachers and examiners,
training of markers/scorers, analysis of results, and finally the "live" running of the examinations as
required by law.
This was a period of remarkable growth in the NAES's capacity and national stature. While there have
been difficulties in implementing so many high-risk, high-visibility tasks in such a short time, in general the
national exams are well accepted by parents, students and teachers. Few would like to return to: the old,
non-standardized instruments and opaque procedures used by teachers in schools with test questions written
on the blackboard; oral questioning, done on the basis of non-calibrated, pre-digested "tickets" (bilete);
marking non-comparable from one teacher to the next, or across schools or over time. The nature of the
new tests is entirely different - they are linked to specific curriculumn- and assessment objectives, and seek
to evaluate skills other than the reproduction of factual knowledge. Because examinations (in Romania as
elsewhere) drive what is taught in classrooms, having examinations that require and reward higher-level
thinking skills will be a powerful force in introducing such skills into teaching and learning.
Reaching these outcomes has not been easy. At times, implementation was faced with various challenges.
- 10 -



There were instances when the lack of "ownership" of the sub-component's objectives among some of the
MER staff became a serious obstacle. In the very beginning, those in charge with the old-style exams were
not convinced that any change was needed, and regarded the TAU as an essentially parallel,
research-oriented exercise in the ELS that did not affect the way things were done in the Ministry. The
ambiguous status of the TAU vis-a-vis the EES and the Ministry, and the relative youth of the researchers
involved, did not help. However, constructive consultations and TA advise finally resulted in the
recognition of the need of a professional NAES with: (a) a substantial number of professional people; (b) a
secure building; and (c) a substantial recurrent budget once the project ended. The NAES is currently
successfully functioning in the system.
Sub-component I): Occupational Standards and Assessment (US$23 million). This sub-component is
rated satisfactory. It was designed in order to define and update occupational standards and certification
practices, ensuring that the curricula and testing in youth, adult and enterprise-based training programs are
well-founded on knowledge and skills used in the workplace and comparable to practices in most OECD
countries. In this respect, the sub-component envisaged the establishment of a Council for Occupational
Standards (COSA), as a tripartite body of representatives of employers, employees and relevant
Government agencies. Under COSA, a Research and Technical Services Unit (RTSU) of about 12
professionals, was to be set up to guide the development of occupational/job standards and assessment
materials. These resources were meant to become available to Romanian employers, employment and
training agencies, schools and universities, and unions as tools for increasing the quality of training
programs, worker productivity, and worker mobility both within and outside Romania.
To meet this objective, the sub-component included activities, as follows: (i) a documentation and records
center for obtaining, storing, and disseminating occupational standards and assessment materials; the center
was meant to house an automated database to access materials, and maintain records on occupational
certificated issued by COSA; (ii) developing training materials to be used by the teams of standard writers;
the project was expected to provide resources for the development and use of occupational standards and
assessment products in about 300 occupations; (iii) establishing a network of local consultants available for
assisting and certifying local agencies interested in developing written and performance tests from the test
item data bank. The sub-component was also expected to provide an important underpinning for curriculum
development in a parallel project in secondary technical/vocational education (EU financed) as well as adult
training efforts under an Employment and Social Protection Project (ESPP).
The component was adequately designed taking into account that the unemployment accompanying
economic restructuring revealed the limited occupational mobility and difficulty in retraining workers
prepared through the available secondary school system in Romania; the way in which vocational training
curricula were defined in Romania was outdated and the country had limited experience with modem job
analysis techniques to produce occupational standards that would serve as a basis for training curriculum
development and assessment of the skills and knowledge of trainees and workers. It was important to have
such standards in order to meet the need for more efficient recruitment of Romanian workers and to
facilitate their labor mobility both within and outside the country. However, given its specificity, the
sub-component would have probably been better placed under the Employment and Social Protection
Project. The sub-component benefited from Australian technical assistance (DEET) which brought in its
intemational experience and provided substantial support towards the achievement of the sub-component
objectives.
The objectives of this sub-component have been satisfactorily achieved except for the documentation and
records center which actually has all requested materials, equipment and data base available, but lacks an
appropriate physical space. Monitoring indicators show full coverage of the 300 occupational standards
- 11 -



and validated test items. 75 VET schools are implementing COSA occupational standards and The
National Agency for Employment through its Regional Centers for Adult Training (set up under the ESPP)
have started using COSA occupational standards in preparing competency based training programs and
applying related assessment. The format for occupational standards and test items were established; at the
same time, specialized guidelines were developed for: occupational analyses, preparation of occupational
standards, preparation of test items, quality checking procedures for standards and test items; a training
program has also been developed for project coordinators involved in the preparation of occupational
standards. A system for classifying the occupational standards has been put in place, covering 22
occupational standards. Approximately 2,000 specialists were trained from 83 economic enterprises in
which occupational standards and test items were prepared in various domains. Armong the 300
occupational standards and associated test items produced under the project there were also standards for
teachers and education management staff. Originally, occupational standards were created for primary
teachers, but later on it was agreed that education is more like a profession and, therefore, professional
standards were developed.
Substantial efforts were made by COSA and RTSU towards implementation of occupational standards in
the vocational education system and the private sector. Dissemination and promotion activities included
regional seminars and setting up COSA's web page. COSA is currently operational on the labor market
through its authorized assessment centers and has issued approximately 200 individual competency
certificates so far.
Sub-component E: Textbooks (US$47.2 million). The objectives of this sub-component were: (i) to
provide a diversity of upgraded textbooks that meet the new curriculum requirements; (ii) to move textbook
choice and purchasing power from the central to the school level, thereby engaging publishers in a
competition to develop new textbooks; (iii) to implement these changes under the supervision of a Textbook
Approvals Board (TAB) to oversee and stimulate an open system of national competitive bidding from
State and private publishers on an equal footing, in accordance with an agreed set of technical regulations,
quality criteria, and price range; (iv) to establish up to 12 subject panels under the TAB, which will
evaluate the publishers' proposals in relation to the criteria.
The new mechanisms would be introduced gradually, covering five primary textbook titles in the first year
and increasing to 100 titles in the final Project year. Publishers whose proposals are approved could apply
for training in publishing management, and could receive a development grant of up to $10,000 per title
towards the cost of developing their proposals up to pre-press stage. Publishers would organize exhibitions
each year in every judet. Schools would choose the books they wanted, order them through the local
inspectorates, and pay for them from a budget based on student per-capita allocations for textbooks. The
Ministry then would enter into contracts with the publishers for the total quantities for all textbooks to be
produced for that year. A total of 250 titles (about one-half the number of titles used in schools in the early
1 990s) would be provided under the Project, for a total of some 20 million books distributed to the schools.
The objectives of the Textbooks sub-component were in line with the overall Project objectives and with the
main objective for Component I (to assist the Government in implementing reform in the four interrelated
areas of curriculum, teacher training, assessment, and textbook provision for compulsory education). They
were also in line with the Romanian Government's priorities at the time, which included support for
privatization, and the need to target scarce public resources more efficiently.
They also fit well with the Bank's Operational Guidelines for textbooks and reading materials (developed
using also the experience of the Romanian project), which state that "Since textbooks are critical at every
- 12 -



stage of the education process, the Bank will support policies for the provision of textbooks. Such policies
should place explicit priority on reducing or eliminating cost to students at the level of primary education
(usually the first 6 years of basic education), and provide a needs-based, targeted subsidy at higher grades
of general education". One of the criteria set out in the Guidelines is the "assurance that cost will not be an
obstacle for poor students' access to textbooks and reading materials". (7he World Bank, "Operational
Guidelines for Textbooks and Reading Materials'" Washington, DC: 2000.)
Achievement of the sub-component's objectives as set out in the SAR has been satisfactory. Under the
previous regime, textbook provision was a State monopoly; between 1948 and 1994, the State publishing
house (Editura Didactica si Pedagogica or EDP) published, printed and distributed one single textbook
per subject per grade. These textbooks were (generally) of low quality in terms of content, illustration,
paper and binding. Most important, textbook choice did not exist. The content of the "unique" textbook
was dense, theoretical, and often too abstruse for students of average ability to understand.
Creating a textbook "market" was not an explicit Project goal. However, the SAR states (p. 15) that
"Assuarances were provided by the Government at negotiations that the development of upgraded textbooks
will not be contracted to any publishers which are beneficiaries of budgetary subsidies."
All the sub-component's objectives have been achieved, with one exception. While textbook choice now
exists, purchasing power still does not lie with the schools. The impact studies show that schools have little
or no knowledge of the comparative value/cost of the textbooks they order. Teachers therefore do not make
their choices with any regard to maximizing cost-effectiveness, and schools are not financially accountable
for optimal spending on different inputs: teachers, auxiliary staff, textbooks and teaching materials.
Over-ordering and poor stock control are still a problem.
By the end of April 2001, when the final bid under the Project was launched, a flourishing private textbook
industry had emerged in Romania, with as many as 56 publishers taking part in national competitive
bidding according to strict requirements. The TAB, set up in 1995, and its panels of evaluators had gained
a great deal of experience, despite consecutive staff changes. Teachers and schools can now choose from
about three books per subject per grade in compulsory education, and have a better understanding about
making such choices. Competent technical assistance arrived in 1998 (delayed due to the tax issue,
mentioned above), and has successfully supported the sub-component with expertise and training at all
stages, especially of subject panelists.
Although post-compulsory (post-Grade VII) books were not covered under the Project, TAB panels have
also reviewed 900 new titles for grades IX through XII, to ensure conformity with the curriculum. These
textbooks are then available on the open market (the cost of these textbooks is not covered from State or
local budgets).
A total of 348 alternative new titles for 150 subject-grades have been secured for compulsory schools, well
in excess of the estimated target of 250 titles by the end of the Project. At the time of the final bid, the
PCU was managing 93 contracts, 90 for textbooks and 3 for printed materials, for a total of US$17.8
million from the Project. Only 12 of these had been awarded to the previous State publisher (EDP), with at
least 25 other publishers winning contracts.
Technical assistance seminars trained 360 evaluators and 6 evaluator-trainers to ensure that trained
panelists were available for all subjects. Seminars were also organized with some CCDs to assist teachers
in selecting books, and teacher training materials had been produced for future use.
- 13 -



Quantitative and qualitative impact studies of textbook reform in schools have been carried out with
British Council TA, involving 10 Romanian experts paid under the TA contract. They visited schools, book
warehouses, Inspectorates, and spoke with teachers, students and parents. These studies (The British
Council, "Quantitative and Qualitative Impact Studies of the Textbook Component of ERP". Bucharest,
2001) have been presented to the MER management along with useful recommendations for textbook
policy.
Sub-component F: Development of Rural Education (US$11.5 million). The pilot sub-component is
rated satisfactory. It was conceived as an emergency intervention aimed at supporting education in rural
schools from eight counties (Botosani, Buzau, Costanta, Gorj, Harghita, Maramures, Olt, Sibiu) selected
by the MER. A National Board for the Development of Rural Education (NBDRE) was set up in February
2000. Working groups were established, including specialists from ISE, teachers and inspectors. Based on
a needs assessment, as well as on a summary report of ISE's national study on rural education, it was
confirmed that the most urgent needs in rural schools were related to the lack of basic educational materials
and to the limited knowledge of most teachers and school directors about the new curriculum requirements
introduced by the reform. Most of the teachers and directors did not know how to manage the changing
environment. All these aspects lead to lack of trust on the part of parents and local authorities on the
capacity of schools to provide good quality education. In some rural areas the motivation to send children
to school was to get the school allowance distributed through schools.
The envisaged outcomes of the piloting activities were the increased opportunities for rural students to be
engaged in active learning activities, to have increased access to quality basic education and, as a
consequence, to have higher learning achievements in the long run. The pilot also aimed at stimulating the
change at school level, the involvement of local communities in rural school life. The direct beneficiaries of
the pilot were 208,107 students in 2,039 schools.
Through the pilot, basic teaching materials were provided for grades 1-8: educational posters, kits for
Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics; microscopes, globes, atlases, maps, didactic games, alphabet
teaching devices, dictionaries a.s.o.; 6,203 grade 1-4 classrooms set up their own mini-library with
booklets. In addition, equipment and modular school furniture were provided for supporting active teaching
activities inside the classrooms and the design and production of didactic materials by teachers: 903
schools received computers, printers and copy machines; at the same time 3,400 sets of school modular
furniture were provided to 624 schools. One of the most successful activity was the training delivered to
three target groups: (i) the school community, including the school director, parents, local authorities and
inspectors - aiming at raising awareness about the content and direction of the reform, with emphasis on
the new curriculum and the need to get the community involved in school life and operation; (ii) the school
directors - aiming at increasing their capacity to work with the community, improve their understanding of
the new curriculum and enhance their managerial skills to conduct pedagogic supervision and quality
control of the teaching process - more than 2,000 directors participated; (iii) teachers - aiming at increasing
their understanding of the new curriculum and enhance their capacity to work with the didactic materials
provided by the pilot and to increase their capacity to produce their own didactic materials - more than
14,000 teachers participated.
While the Education Reform Project in general was centrally driven, essential to the Rural Education Pilot
was its grassroots approach. Very good feedback was received from participants on the training sessions
provided at community level with wide participation of teachers, parents, community representatives
including the local authorities, the church, local private sector a.s.o. Such reactions confirmed the
importance of increasing community awareness regarding schools and facilitated good interactions of the
school and community representatives. Based on multiple interviews and focus group discussions, an
- 14 -



imnpact study showed that the materials and equipment provided under the pilot significantly contributed to:
(i) a better perception of school itself among students and their parents as well as to a higher "self-esteem"
of students, increased trust in their future opportunities, given the previously assumed gap between rural
and urban schools; (ii) an increased interest of students for knowledge given the opportunity to correlate
theory and practice (for example, the availability of a microscope in a biology class or a collection of rocks
illustrating a geology lesson totally changed the students' attitude); (iii) beyond the increased interest in IT,
the attraction to reading books was expressed by many students who also stressed the importance of
having as many dictionaries and documentary materials as possible in their school libraries. The study also
pointed at the importance of the availability of qualified teaching staff trained on how to use materials and
equipment, how to create their own teaching materials, to the need to involve the community in attracting
and retaining such staff. It noted that school-community partnerships are far more stronger when teachers
are well integrated in the community and parents have good relationships with them.
Despite few instances of "overprotection" for materials and equipment (eventually being locked in special
rooms), substantial involvement of the school, the community and the Local Authorities can be noted.
Rural teachers, including unqualified ones, received a comprehensive training program on how to creatively
introduce the new curriculum and adapt it to the realities of rural areas, how to use teaching materials for
promoting independent learning and critical thinking among rural students; school inspectorates were
involved into organizing education management training for principals of rural schools. Awareness sessions
were an exceltent opportunity for developing stronger school-community relationships, ieachers and
principals had the opportunity to meet with parents and community representatives and local authorities to
agree on ways to support each other in implementing education reforms and improving schools. Teaching
materials facilitating the introduction of the new curriculum and the implementation of more active,
student-centered learning approaches were provided; books for classroom use in primary education in rural
areas induced a real change in the classroom environment given that in many villages students had no other
book before this pilot intervention than just the textbooks; the new furniture as well as the equipment
became real "assets" in many schools. During field visits the Bank team noted that school life could be
tremendously changed by the presence of a computer if teachers and students knew how to maximize its use
and went even beyond preparing lessons and tests, utilizing it for issuing a school magazine which had a
substantial impact on school life.
In terms of designing it as a pilot, this sub-component has proved to be a very useful tool and its valuable
experience is extensively used now for designing the upcoming Rural Education project.
Component II: Improving Education Financing and Management (US$7.8 million)
The overall achievement of objectives under Component II is rated Satisfactory. The objectives of this
component were to: (a) introduce a revised budget appropriation formula in budgeting pre-university
education; (b) strengthen financial management and planning capacity through training and equipment
upgrading in educational institutions at the national, county and school level; (c) carry out feasibility
studies that will result in policies for diversifying the sources of financing for education; and (d) establish
the Reform Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
The component had two sub-components separately described bellow. (Also see Annex 2 on project costs
and financing for actual/latest estimates by components and sub-components.)
Sub-component A: Resource Allocation, Management and Mobilization (US$6.0 million) - was aimed
at supporting MER and MPF to introduce measures for efficiency increase in the use of education
- 15-



resources, devolve autonomy in resource management, and diversify sources of financing for education.
Appropriation formulas were expected to be applied based on examples used in OECD countries.
Expenditure authority and flexibility in using resources and decentralization to school level were aimed at.
In parallel with the changes envisaged in resource allocation, training was envisaged for school inspectors
and local administrative staff. Equipment and software was to be provided to improve capability in
financial analysis and increase awareness of cost-effectiveness and strategies for better utilization of staff,
physical and financial resources. Training in these areas for school principals was also planned.
A school monitoring and performance improvement system was envisaged in order to improve the
information base for decision-making in the sector, based on a revised system and categories for collecting
data on schools. Five regional education resource centers were planned in big cities to provide materials
and other support to inspectorate staff and headmasters in their regions. Studies, local workshops and pilot
trials were also envisaged to assist formulation of new policies for resource mobilization in education.
This sub-component is considered partially successful: it was successful in strengthening management, but
had a limited impact on the resource allocation side.
In terms of sub-component design, the above mentioned objectives were set in an environment characterized
by a long history of central financing and controls in which local school-level responsibility, initiatives and
innovation had been stifled by the heavy reliance on central government re venues. budget allocations
according to rigid norms, and a highly prescriptive management of schooling with lack of incentives for
internal efficiency. The design could be therefore be evaluated as ambitious and focused on essential
changes needed in the system. However, the realism of decentralization measures was low, the design didn't
take into account cross-sectorial relationships and the fact that education alone could not go ahead with
decentralization while being constraint by financial legislation and lack of regulations regarding local
govemments involvement. Also, funds allocated to various components (especially the ENIS) were not
sufficient.
The TA needs of the sub-component were not covered by the project, since the Know How Fund (KHF)
provided a grant to the MER aiming at increasing the scope of management aspects under this
sub-component and at enhancing the management and institutional capacity in the system especially
'focusing on school principals and inspectors. This change proved to be less beneficial to the project, since
the KHF TA lacked expertise in some areas (e.g. school mapping) and didn't succeed always to establish
the right communication channels with MER.
In terms of outputs, 7 regional centers for education management training have been set up and equipped
(exceeding the initially planned 5 in SAR), 33 national trainers for inspectors and 160 national and regional
trainers for principals, 100 trainers for MIS implementation were selected and trained; 1,200 inspectors
were trained on the new school inspection model promoting new quality insurance tools and management;
subsequently, more than 10,000 principals were trained on education management through a cascade
model, more that 6,000 administrative staff on the MIS, approximately 30,0000 teaching staff on
curriculum and subject didactics, more that 11,000 teachers on information and communication
technologies. Relevant materials were prepared and published: a school management manual, a trainer's
guide, a set of studies on education finance issues. Objectives related to education management have been
largely attained' and the training programs provided under the sub-component were very much appreciated
by the beneficiaries. However, the sustainability of these achievements largely depends on ensuring that the
valuable expertise of trainers is recognized and further used in the system. Institutional development has
also became significant in 1999 and 2000, when a National Agency for Education Management was
established with a view to accredit training programs in modern education management and financing,
- 16 -



strengthening education management programs in pre-service training and developing professional
standards for education administration.
The new inspection model, piloted and implemented under this sub-component was a substantial
achievement given its focus on education quality and advisory roles assigned to school inspectors.
To meet the objective related to an improved information base for decision making, an Education
Management Information System (EMIS) was defined and piloted and a Data Interchange Agreement
(DIA) was set 100 information nodes at school inspectorate county level and pilot centers received
necessary equipment. However, due to shortages of funds, links through the EMIS were established only up
to the level of inspectorates and few schools. The majority of schools lack equipment and no other
procedure was established to allow for information to be collected and input at regular periods of time.
In order to support informed decision making at MER level, this sub-component also contributed to a
school mapping exercise in coordination with the School Rehabilitation Project (also Bank financed); as a
result, a performing school mapping software is now available and 100 staff from county school
inspectorates and from MER level received specialized training.
On the financial management objectives, the sub-component was only partially successful, due to delays in
reforming public finance and local authorities legislation. The 1995 Education Law transferred the
responsibility for school maintenance to local authorities, but responsibility for management and financing
of all other education inputs remained centralized under MER. The 1998 Law on Local Public Finance
made local councils responsible for financing most inputs for primary and secondary education, except
teacher salaries and benefits, textbooks and student scholarships which remained centralized. Only in 1999,
the Government Ordinance 138/1999 established the "money follows student principle" of financing; the
education law was also amended to allow schools to mobilize and manage additional resources; by an
Emergency Order No. 32 issued in 2001, the government decided that education will be financed by county
level authorities. However, since local governments lacked resources, a temporary solution was found, i.e.,
funds for covering teacher salaries, textbooks and scholarships were provided from locally collected VAT.
Local authorities continued to be responsible for financing capital investments, equipment and maintenance.
Currently, through Ordinance 163/2001, textbooks are financed from the central budget through MER
budget.
Efforts were made towards capacity building at MER level: proposals made for improving education
financing, elaboration of financing standards and financing formula options; support for setting up the
National Council for Pre-University Finance, including piloting budget allocation formula at national,
regional and local level. Unfortunately, the activity developed under the sub-component including feasibility
and policy studies, various versions of appropriation formula were not taken into account when the new
legislation was prepared and adopted.
At present, work is ongoing in MER to refine the financing formula and to find the best solutions for
aligning financial decentralization with responsibilities and accountability for managing primary and
secondary education.
Sub component B: Reform Coordination and Implementation (US$1.8 million) - was aimed at
providing assistance to the PCU and key implementing departments of MER and IES in the planning and
management of project activities, procurement, project accounts and auditing, communication and
dissemination, and monitoring and evaluation.
The Project Co-Ordination Unit (PCU) was established in 1994 as a condition for loan effectiveness, and
has fimctioned well. At project beginning stage, the TA (EduPlus, Canada) supported the PCU with
- 17 -



guidance particularly on management, procurement and accounting issues. A Steering Committee was set
up under the secretary of state to oversee project implementation. During project implementation, the PCU
had to cope with various difficulties due to the novelty and complexity of the project, cumbersome Court of
Audit requirements, frustrations related to the delay in contracting the foreign TA, as well as to
administrative issues ( low compensation levels, understaffing a.s.o.). Despite such difficulties and an
ever-increasing workload, the PCU retained the same key staff throughout the Project and tasks were
largely fulfilled: organizing complex procurement activities, coordinating the activities of all project
sub-components, information sharing among implementing units and public information, including
communication between MER and teachers, teacher union representatives, parents, local authorities,
publishers, media, any other stakeholders. Upon Mid-Term Review, funds were reallocated for PR
activities under the PCU responsibility, both for the overall project and for individual components.
Specifically, the PMU managed all the project resources in accordance with the objectives defined under
the Project, acted as the principal liaison with the Bank, monitored project costs and project accounts, and
the availability of counterpart funds, processed disbursement applications, undertook major procurements,
administered the TA contracts, prepared and distributed to relevant agencies due reports on the status of
project implementation and problems encountered, costs incurred under each project component as well as
the annual audit reports.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rgte of-return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional impact of the Project is high. The MER's ability to make effective use of its own
staff, and of educational managers and professionals at various levels in the education system has been
greatly enhanced. The Project has had a significant impact on the MER and judet inspectorates, the CCDs,
and schools. The various new institutions set up and developed under the Project itself (some at earlier
stages of the project, others towards its end and having a really high impact specifically in areas related to
the quality of education and satisfactory in areas of resource allocation and management) - the National
Curriculum Board, the National Assessment and Examination Board and the National Assessment and
Examination Service, the National Teacher Training Center, the Textbook Evaluation and Distribution
Board, the Council for Occupational Standards and Assessment (COSA) - all function under the policy
control of the Ministry (with the exception of COSA), with clearly defined roles and relationships.
As was pointed out earlier, possibly the most important and lasting effect of ERP has been the
identification and development of a cadre of competent professionals in curriculum design, educational
measurement, teacher development, textbook quality, and educational management Their value to the
Romanian education system, and indeed to educational development in the region, is a valuable asset for the
future. Several other Bank-financed education projects in Moldova, Albania, Kosovo have already
benefited from their experience, and Romanian experts are well respected by the European education
community.
Care must now be taken that the expertise and experience developed over the 10-year life-span of the
Project (starting with initial study visits and attachments in 1991 and 1992) are not lost. The achievements
under ERP should be consolidated and taken forward.
- 18 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governnment or implementing agency:
Romania's transitional recession was deeper and longer than was expected when the ERP was first
prepared (1991-92). Compared to other former communist countries in the region, economic and social
reforms were slow in coming. Political reforns were relatively quick, with the first elections held in May
1990 and Romania's first democratic Constitution adopted November 1991; but structural reforms, such
as decentralization and development of the private sector, were delayed. Erratic macro-economic and fiscal
policies led to high inflation (256% in 1993; 45% in 2000) and exchange rate depreciation. Real GDP in
1999 stood at 75.7% of its 1989 base. This decline was accompanied by a sharp rise in unemployment, and
a steep fall in real wages (-38% between 1989 and 1999). In the late 1990s, about 12% of Romanian
children aged 0-15 lived in absolute poverty, with rural children 1.5 times more likely to be absolutely poor
than urban children.
The negative effect of poverty on school attendance and school success is well documented. More directly
in connection with ERP, the harsh economic realities of the period of its implementation (especially
between 1994 and 1996) put quality-related educational reforms well down the political and public agenda.
At times, the Government had problems with timely provision of the needed counterpart funds. Moreover,
throughout the ERP implementation period, Romania consistently allocated only a small percentage of
public expenditure (3.4% in 2000, in real terms 17% less than in 1995 and 20% less than in 1990 ) to
education, further eroding the already low teacher salaries and poor physical conditions in a majority of
schools, severely affecting educational quality.
In these conditions, implementing ERP's wide-ranging reforms was clearly difficult. Nonetheless, even at its
most difficult moments, the Project was always able to progress, probably because of (rather than despite)
its comprehensive design. Successive Ministers and Secretaries of State always actively supported the
ERP's main objectives, and the Project as a whole was never at risk.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Project design stresses coordination among the four content-related components (curriculum,
textbooks, teacher training, and assessment), to ensure coherence and logical sequence in introducing
Romania's educational reforms. Co-ordination and sequence have suffered from certain circumstances,
some of them - such as the delay in the adoption of the Education Law - outside the Project's, but not the
Government's control.
The relationship between the Project (in particular the PCU) and the Court of Audit was often tense,
leading to unproductive confrontations that delayed procurement, greatly increased the pressure on PCU
staff, and created an antagonistic atmosphere that was not warranted by the legitimate and proper activities
of the PCU. Supervision missions from time to time visited the Court of Audit seeking to improve mutual
understanding, but these problems required an unnecessary amount of energy and time that could have been
used to better effect.
Other difficulties were: (i) the long (more than two years) delay in the signing of Technical Assistance
contracts in all four components, due to a legal dispute among the MER, the MPF, and the Court of Audit
about taxation; (ii) the slow start of some parts of the Project, in particular the second component and the
vital Teacher Training sub-component; (iii) lack of timely and clear policy decisions, for example about
the institutional and physical location of the National Assessment and Examinations Service.
- 19-



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The initial framing of the ERP was done almost entirely with the assistance of staff from the Institute for
Educational Sciences, with only marginal involvement from relevant, second-level Ministry officials.
Therefore ownership of ERP objectives, while supported by the Minister at the time, was far stronger
among professionals and researchers than it was among the rank-and-file Ministry personnel who were
expected to implement the reforms. This created difficulties later on that might have been prevented by
more intensive efforts to bring them fully on board from the outset.
Co-ordination among the main components was a constant challenge mentioned in several supervision
mission aide-memoires throughout the life of ERP. A Steering Committee, consisting of the leaders of all
sub-components and chaired by the Secretary of State for Pre-University Education, was set up in 1995;
this improved cross-component coordination to some extent, but the effectiveness and frequency of its
meetings depended on the interest of successive Secretaries of State. Changes in leadership of some sub-
components were also frequent. Sub-components with relatively stable leadership (curriculum, assessment,
occupational standards) made more steady progress.
The late arrival of Technical Assistance to several key components (assessment, textbooks, and teacher
training) was not entirely within the implementing agency's control, although initial procurement procedures
were slow due to the inexperience of PCU staff. Once the key TA contracts were signed, however
(I 997i98), remarkable progress was made and the efforts of the TA contraCtors to compress the activities
specified in the original TORs into the much shorter time remaining in the Project should be commended.
However, the unsatisfactory quality of the TA to the Teacher Training component (see under Component I,
Sub-component B) sh6uld have been recognized earlier, and the contract should not have been renewed
after its initial period. Concems about the appropriateness of the TA provided were raised continuously,
but the contract was not interrupted. The impact on implementation was the lack of timely guidance and
"pushing" for the reform of the pre- and in-service teacher training systems; the TA was actually limited to
training trainers and delivering of training programs.
514 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was estimated to be US$ 73.50 million, out of which US$ 50.0 was to be Bank
financed and the balance, US$ 23.50 million, Government financed. At the time if this ICR, the project had
fully disbursed the Bank loan and also spent US$12.95 nillion from the Governnent contribution. The
total project cost amounted to US$ 62.95 million representing 85.6% of the total estimated project cost.
The difference between the estimated and actual local contribution was mainly given by lower than
estimnated unit costs of textbooks (approx. 76% of the estimated unit cost) and equipment (approx. 25% of
the estimated unit cost); lower overhead costs also contributed. Initial cost estimates were also higher than
the actual costs since upper secondary textbooks were no longer produced under the project, as planned,
given that during project implementation textbooks for upper secondary education were no longer
subsidized by the state. The impact of the above mentioned developments on the loan made it possible to
meet reallocation needs during the project (such as increasing the allocation for the Assessment and
Examinations sub-component which needed more resources for equipping exam centers all over the
country) as well as to respond to the Government request for an emergency intervention through a mural
education pilot. The loan closing date was extended twice and thus the project was closed 23 months later
than initially estimated. Despite slower disbursement rates and implementation pace in the first project
years and problems faced in the context of a difficult transition period, the loan was 100% disbursed.
- 20 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated likely since changes are already intemalized by the education system and
successive governments proved their commitment to the education reform. More specifically, sustainability
reasons related to each sub-component are described below as well as areas for further action.
Curriculum: The establishment of the National Curriculum Board, and the conceptually strong National
Curriculum Framework make sustainability of ERP's curriculum reform effort likely. However, it is
essential that curriculum development is seen as an on-going, basic function, and not as a single task that
was finished with the adoption of the National Curriculum Framework and the subject curricula.
Future challenges for the system include:
*      The lack of training for teachers in the kind of teaching and learning methods that help students
acquire cognitive skills. Under the ERP, funding for teacher training in the use of the new curricula was
not foreseen (see above explanation on reduction of loan size); intensive training (under the Curriculum,
not the Teacher Training, sub-component) has helped, but has by necessity been limited more to
disseminating information than to fundamentally changing teachers' behavior in the classroom. For this, a
great deal of time and on-going, local professional support will be needed.
*      The daily classroom assessment practices need to fully reflect the reform changes.
*      The recent reduction by MER of the percentage of instructional time that can be used for
school-based curriculum (to a maximum of 5% of available time) is explained as being due to the lack of
preparedness of many schools to offer school-based curriculum and their tendency to replace it with normal
courses in order to offer full norms to teachers. This should be only a transitory measure, while capacity at
school level is increased for developing non-core curricula.
Teacher training: An impact study prepared by the TA provider (EDC, 2002 Romania Education Reform
Project: Teacher Training Component April 1998 - December 2001. Impact Study. Education
Development Center, Inc., Global Learning Group. Boston: February 5, 2002.) considers sustainability of
the sub-component's outcomes "likely". The establishment of the National Teacher Training Board in 2001
is to be commended. The MER's strategy in the field includes standards based training and evaluation of
teachers, as well as coordination between pre- and in-service institutions.
Future actions need to be taken on the following:
*      The legal status of standards-based training and evaluation of teachers currently included in MER's
strategy further needs to be reflected in appropriate legislation. The new requirement of 90 credits of
in-service training (46 to be delivered by universities, 44 by CCDs) is expected to improve the coordination
between pre- and in-service institutions.
*      There are still many unqualified teachers, especially in rural areas, where it is difficult to attract
and retain qualified teachers. At present, there is no formal mechanism for these teachers to become
qualified unless they leave their jobs (which they cannot afford and would be anyway catastrophic for rural
schools) and return to university study. This issue needs to be addressed, again jointly between the
university and in-service sectors, for example through distance teacher training programs.
*      Financing for the kind of on-going local support needed to make a permanent impact on teacher
behavior and student learning styles is far from secure. Building capacity for a standards-based,
student-centered education system needs a strong network, at the schools' level, to make it happen: such a
network is not, at present, in place.
- 21 -



Assessment and Examinations: The NAEB and NAES were established formally in 1994; the NAES's
legal status is reflected in the Education Law and further affirmed by Government Ordinance 327 in 1998.
The NAES has now a staff strength of 45, a renovated, well-equipped and secure building, an annual
candidature of more than half a million students, and a dedicated line in the MER's annual budget to
support the Service's recurrent costs. The legal, financial and professional position of the NAES seems
secure.
However, in the frame of the project only a limited number of teachers could be trained in using a
standards-linked approach to assessing their pupils' progress. The NAES provided teacher support
materials and conducted a number of teacher training seminars using its own staff and budget, but
assessment (other than as a minor part in cascade orientation days) was not fully integrated as an essential
part of school-level, day-to-day, standards-linked reform. Therefore, additional training is needed in order
to give up the tradition of providing marks for reproduction of mostly fact-based lessons and build a culture
of monitoring student progress against standards.
Textbooks: Towards the end of the Project, the TAB drafted a number of policy framework papers, with
important recommendations for the way forward after the end of the Project. In particular, it made
recommendations about: (1) technical aspects (evaluation of the necessity for, as well as material quality
of, the books); (2) the orderly evaluation and approval of titles, which is the legal duty of the MER; (3)
economic aspects (stable and equitable financing; pricing policy; and ensuring that requirements are
attractive to commercial publishers); (4) the procurement system; (5) delivery issues, see above; (6)
admninistration and payment issues; (7) political and social aspects, such as provision of books to minority
students, disabled children, and needy students in high schools. Few of these recommendations have been
followed. The transition of the TAB and its supporting structures to the new "Textbook Evaluation and
Distribution Board" in the MER was accompanied by some changes that may affect the sustainability of
the textbook sub-component. The most important concerns are: (a) that the considerable experience and
expertise developed under the Project should be preserved; (b) that evaluations should be made by
independent, appropriately trained panels of teachers and specialists, on the basis of agreed and publicly
known criteria; (c) that all evaluation and tendering processes should be professional, accountable and
transparent, and aimed at improving quality, open participation, and protection of the needs of students
regardless of their ability to pay. The MER has plans for providing training for evaluators and making
public the textbooks scoring method.
Under the current arrangements (in 2002), inspectors are asked to compile a confidential list of "the best"
teachers (100 or more in each subject, nationally). As many as 10,000 names may be on these lists
compiled by inspectors. One criterion for being listed, apparently, is whether a teacher has prepared
students for subject "Olympiads". This would indicate teachers accustomed to working with gifted students
- not necessarily teachers who have a clear understanding of the needs of the full ability range), and just
before a proposed book is to be evaluated, five (or possibly 10) teachers are selected by computer to carry
out the evaluation. No training is given. The MER provides some guidelines, and scores given by the
teachers are automatically averaged.
This practice is believed to be less vulnerable to corruption, but: (a) it is not benefitting from the
considerable investments made under the Project in the training and expertise of Board members and
evaluators; (b) it gives inspectors - who are MER employees - the power to decide the list; and (c) it
assumes that good teachers are also good judges of textbook quality.
One principle of the textbook sub-component was that evaluations should be made by independent, trained
panels of teachers and specialists, on the basis of agreed criteria. If there are concems about possible
- 22 -



dishonest practices, the answer is to make the process more professional, accountable and transparent.
Areas for further follow-up are:
*      There are unresolved and unclear issues regarding textbook delivery and distribution. A careful
review of the whole supply/delivery process is needed, with regard to financing, roles and responsibilities,
warehousing and stock control, and long-term cost-effectiveness.
*      The issue of a mechanism for providing free textbooks to needy students in high schools
(post-grade VIII) has not yet been resolved. According to the Bank's Operational Guidelines, cost must not
be an obstacle for poor students' access to textbooks and reading materials. The Ministry's efforts to
emphasize price and affordability criteria in textbook evaluation is to be commended, as long as a rational
scoring system is used, and quality is not compromised The balance between price and quality criteria in
book evaluation needs to be reviewed and adjusted. It is not a simple matter of the Ministry wanting to save
money and the publishers wanting to make money. The point is to ensure that every student has access to
good-quality books, on time, and at reasonable cost, either to the MER (in the case of compulsory school
children and needy students in upper secondary level) or to the parents (at upper secondary level).
*      In the medium- to long term, different approaches to textbook provision and financing could be
considered, among them a textbook rental scheme whereby schools would own the books but would rent
them to students for a small annual rental fee (exempting needy students). These fees would then be
retained in a revolving fund, which would be used to purchase new books as the old ones wear out or need
to be replaced. Needy students could be exempted from paying the fee.
Occupational Standards. Sustainability is likely since the current Law on Adult Training (Law no. 129
passed by the Parliament in May 2002) is stipulating that in order to obtain nationally recognized
certificates, competency evaluations are to be performed by authorized centers and the evaluation
procedure and the certification are to be regulated by a common order issued by the Ministry of Labor and
Social Solidarity and by the MER. Also, an Emergency Ordinance is under preparation on expanding the
tasks of the National Adult Training Board which will take over in its technical secretariat COSA's
Department for occupational standards and certification maintaining all COSA current functions. This is
expected to ensure long term recognition of COSA's methodology on the labor market and sustainability.
COSA has already demonstrated its sustainability capacity embarking on a series of projects with local and
foreign partners: (i) Partnership with the Canadian Association for Community Colleges for establishing 5
regional centers for evaluation and certification of professional competences (two year contract for US$ 1.0
million financed by the Canadian Agency for International Development (CIDA); (ii) Project for the
development of a unitary competency based professional evaluation and certification in EU accession
countries (contract with the European Training Foundation (ETF); (ii) project for setting up the center for
training and evaluation based on occupational standards in agriculture (AGRAL S 6 ECOMA, 6011 -
CP-R; contract value 1.5 billion ROL co- financed by MER for four years).
Development of Rural Education. Sustainability of the pilot sub-component will be ensured by a follow
on project on Rural Education, currently under preparation. The new project will also support
sustainability of the whole project by continuing activities to increase quality of education in all schools.
Finance and Management. Further efforts will be needed to meet the new financial decentralization
legislation challenges. An Education Policy Note prepared by the Bank, focused on financial, management
- 23 -



and human resources identified issues and made recommendations for modification of current legislation,
setting up of new institutions and capacity building at various levels. The Bank is expecting that the
operationalization of various proposals will be attempted in the frame of the new project currently under
preparation (Rural Education).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the project activities are already integrated in the regular operations of the MER, school
inspectorates and school units. Therefore, no special transition arrangements were needed. As already
mentioned in the previous sections, for example, the Textbooks Approval Board (currently named The
Textbook Evaluation and Distribution Board) continues to organize activities related to textbooks approval
in the system; the NAES which was created under the project is the lead institution in assessment and
examinations; the National Curriculum Council continues to coordinate activities related to curriculum
development; the National Teacher Training Board established in 2001 continues to coordinate pre-and
in-service teacher training strategies; COSA has already proven its functioning capacity on the labor
market.
Final outcomes of this large scale reform can be monitored and evaluated using the results of the national
examinations performed on a yearly basis (Capacitate and Baccalaureat). Such results were already used
during project implementation and this is how obvious discrepancies between rural and urban areas in
terms of education achievements could be documented. As a consequence, a follow-up project was
desirable and indeed is currently under preparation. The Pilot for the Development of Rural Education was
a timely activity that addressed emergency needs and is providing now very useful information for the
design of the new project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The initiation of the Bank's relationship with Romania in education started back in 1990. After an initial
sector review and formal Government request, project preparation started in 1991. Resources for technical
preparation were mobilized from the Japan grant facility, U.K. Know-How Fund, British Council,
EU/PHARE and the Government of Nederlands, France and the U.S. Donors supported activities
organized by the Bank aimed at increasing knowledge of intemational experience and the capacity of MER
and IES.
The project design was guided by the review of human resources developed along with the 1991 Country
Economic Memorandum (Romania - Human Resources and the Transition to a Market Economy, A World
Bank Country Study, ISBN 0-8213-2084-X, 1992), fully reflected in the Human Development module in
the CAS approved in 1994 and was closely matched with the directions of the White Paper on Education
released by the Government in 1993. Key elements of the medium to long term were observed: reorientation
of education to "lifelong learning" and provision of quality basic education; updating of the content of
education (as reflected in curriculum, textbooks and examinations); reorganization of both pre and
in-service teacher training, restructuring of secondary technical and vocational education, abolition of the
state monopoly on textbooks and fostering of a diversity of educational materials in classrooms,
decentralization of the coordination and administration of the education system. A team of highly qualified
Bank specialists and consultants participated in the project preparation covering all relevant areas and the
needed skill mix for general education, assessment, educational materials, teacher training, project
monitoring and evaluation; some of them continued to be involved during implementation.
Country-specific, standard bidding documents were prepared and discussed with the Romanian authorities
- 24 -



before negotiations.
While the project's financing plan was realistically designed back in 1992/1993, in 1999/2000 it was
possible to reallocate funds to a new sub-component (Rural Education Pilot) based on smaller than
estimated costs especially incurred by the textbooks development and production and by changes in
legislation (upper secondary textbooks no longer being subsidized by the state). This was to the benefit of
the project because it could include the pilot responding to urgent needs in the system.
7.2 Supervision:
The project was closely supervised by a team of Bank specialists and consultants all through its
implementation;, continuity of specialized consultants was ensured. The project was task managed from the
field since 2000 which constantly ensured additional advice and mentoring, immediate response and
increased flexibility in resolving various implementation issues. Given the complexity of the project,
beyond the consultations during regular supervision missions performed twice a year, intensive support was
provided for a variety of issues such as needed loan amendments, difficult procurement tasks and loan
extensions. The Bank team also ensured full compliance with Bank operation policies.
The ERP was among the random sample of projects included in the QAG Rapid Supervision Assessment
for three years in a row (the latest in FY'99). Although supervision had been previously rated
"satisfactory", in FY '99 it was considered "marginal" on several grounds which were strongly contested at
the time by the sector management and the teamn (such as failure from the Bank team side at the time of
project identification and preparation to foresee and guard against issues such as taxation of fees of TA
proviciers and Court of Accounts procedures which should have flagged lack of readiness for
implementation; this would have been impossible given that there had been no Court of Accounts as an
institution at appraisal and the taxation law was reactivated two years after project effectiveness).
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. Over a long period of project implementation which
started in 1994, the Bank team was a constant partner playing a catalytic role and ensuring complex
activities were undertaken at the right moment by various actors; at the same time, given the project wide
scope, the Bank team was flexible in working with priorities of different sub-sector management teams,
trying to maximize the benefit of potential focus placed on one component or another one at different points
in time under different political circumstances. At the same time a lot of support was provided for
responding to immediate needs such as the rural education pilot introduced as a new sub-component.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's perfoimance in preparation is assessed as satisfactory. At the time, it was the first project
in the education sector to be financed by the Bank and there was no related experience in the country; the
preparation team was made up mostly of committed and reform oriented specialists from the Institute for
Education Sciences and some of them continued to be involved all through project implementation
manifesting substantial project ownership sense.
7.5 Government inmplemeentation peformance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. As already noted, the project had a long
implementation period during which it evolved with variations in intensity and focus placed on different
project aspects at different points in time, under different political circumstances. Despite inherent
difficulties incurred by handling a systemic reform, the project had its continuity with components and
sub-components advancing at different pace. A sense of ownership was maintained at top management
- 25 -



level of the ministry throughout project implementation, but not always shared by lower levels.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory. As noted above the MER, through the Project
Coordination Unit has managed to implement a comprehensive systemic reform: complex procurement
tasks were handled, TA contracts were coordinated, progress reports and audits were delivered. Despite
such difficulties as staff shortages or low salary levels, the PCU constantly ensured the coordination of
activities, monitoring and evaluation, financial management adequacy, compliance with loan covenants.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
* Implementing fundamental social sector reforms in a deeply traumatized society is painful, costly,
difficult, and slow.
* "Christmas Tree" projects may be a valid option. In large scale reforms that spanned over more years,
in a context of frequent political changes, a piece-meal or gradual approach would have led to serious
delays, until the favorable leadership would have been in power. The "Christmas Tree" approach
provided the opportunity for different leaders to advance with the part of the reform that was closer to
their political views.
* When local expertise is not available, it is essential for the success of the reform to devote at early
stages substantial efforts to training and assisting local specialists. For ERP this has been a key factor
for its subsequent success.
* Wide-ranging stakeholder involvement was not an option at the time the Project was initially prepared
(1991-92). At that time, there was no participatory "culture" among lower levels of the education
system, or among parents or the general public. Decisions were exclusively "top-down", and the
perceived power distance between the Govemment and individual citizens was extremely great. This
situation has changed in time, so that when the project was restructured, stakeholder participation was
included in the pilot component on rural education and will be used in the preparation of the Rural
Education Project
* Initiation of reforms have to be done with whatever reform champions are available. At the time of
project preparation, young researchers from the Institute for Educational Sciences, were the ones
enthusiastic about across-the-board reforms, while Ministry staff were more conservative.
Communication lines need to be maintained open at all times, to gradually broaden the circle of
"reformers".
* Sustained political commitment "at the top" has been essential. Despite the frequent changes in
leadership (four Ministers and eight Secretaries of State during the life of ERP), the "red thread" of
reform was never lost. Because of its broad design, the Project offered each Minister at least some
objectives that were in line with his or her own educational vision and strategy.
* The Project missed the opportunity of using the convincing power of good monitoring and evaluation,
although towards the end of implementation this tool started being used.
* Competent technical assistance inputs at the right time make an enormous difference. The long and
ultimately fruitless dispute over at-source taxation of TA contracts significantly affected progress in
several key sub-components. The highly professional TA in the assessment and examination component
is to a large extent responsible for the focused work and exceptional progress within a limited time.
* The principle of "training-with-production" (as practiced for example in the Assessment and
Examinations sub-component) is a far more cost-effective form of TA than non-specific seminars, in
terms of building lasting professional skills. This principle entails: (i) very careful planning of all TA
- 26 -



activities; (ii) elaborated mix-up and matching of the theoretical aspects with concrete actions: well
targeted training programs/seminars covering specific theoretical knowledge followed by immediate
application of such knowledge (this was particularly important for the development of the Baccalaureat
curricula, the analysis of the exam pilots); (iii) very carefully selected study tours focused on building
specific abilities and capacity of specific team members. Study tours and brief non-specific study visits
are expensive and non-productive, unless there is intensive follow-up and application of lessons
leamed. Longer-term study attachments directly related to the participant'sfuture tasks have more
lasting value.
*   Structures that help ensure sustainability- such as the National Curriculum Council, the National
Assessment and Examinations Service, and the National Center for Teacher Training are extrernely
important. Setting them up early in the life of project implementation with a clear legal, institutional,
and financing status is needed.
*   Positive, attractive and sustained public information campaigns, with prominent support from the
Government and the Minister, are important in getting the reform message across to parents, students
and the public at large. In ERP, very little was done before 1997. At MTR (April 1997), a substantial
amount of money was allocated to support better PR, and more information was available to teachers
and parents. People will support change if they are convinced it will benefit them or their children, and
that message must be given early, reinforced by sustained "progress reports" through the media and
other channels that reach teachers and parents more directly.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
After reviewing this ICR, The Ministry of Public Finance, General Directorate for Extemal Public Finance
sent a confirmation letter to the Bank (dated August 7, 2002) on behalf of the Borrower and the
implementing agency. The Borrower's representatives expressed their high appreciation of the good
cooperation between the Bank and all parties involved in the preparation of both the ICR and the
Evaluation Report of the Borrower (attached in Annex 8).
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NGOs such as the Education 2000+ Center have acknowledged on various occasions (during supervision
missions, workshops, task forces) the importance and benefits of the ERP for the system. They highlighted
especially the complementarity between the systemic approach of the project and their NGO grass roots
initiatives aiming at increasing the impact of the reforms at classroom level.
An impact study "School at the Crossroads: Change and Continuity in the Compulsory Education
Curriculum" conducted within the project in 2001 under the aegis of the MER and the National
Curriculum Council and co-financed by the Education 2000+ Center provided an X-ray of the current
status of compulsory education following the curriculum reform; it makes reference to the major efforts
under the project which resulted in departing from the inflexible subject curricula to the new curricular
philosophy focusing on the acquisition by students of competence and higher level thinking skills.
Substantial recommendations are made in view of continuous improvements needed by the system.
Also, in a meeting held during the ICR mission with private publishers, reference was extensively made at
one of the major benefits of the project, i.e. the shift from the unique textbook per subject and the monopoly
of one publishing house to a system based on altemative textbooks; further efforts needed to ensure the
sustainability of these reform measures were also discussed.
- 27 -



10. Additional Information
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) team consisted of:
Ana Maria Sandi, Task Team Leader & Program Team Leader, ECSHD
Mariana Doina Moarcas, Operations Analyst, ECSHD
Johanna Crighton, Consultant
Jennifer Manghinang, Program Assistant, ECSHD
Raluca Marina Banioti, Team Assistant, ECCRO



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
.IndicaqorWaltMri            .     Projected in la t PSR        ,      ActWaULaest Estimate   .
Increase in proportion of students enrolled in n/a                         48.72%
academic high schools.
Decrease in number of specializations in  n/a                              3 occupational fields
technical lyceum.
Decrease in number of specializations in  n/a                              15 occupational fields (from 130)
vocational programs.
Decrease in enrollment of students in  n/a                                 33.31%
pedagogical high schools.
Increase in number of textbook titles  250 (total including primary, gymnasium and  145 textbook ttles approved for use in
approved for use in pfimary schools.  secondary general education subjects)  primary schools (produced under the project)
Increase in number of textbook fties  250 (total including primary, gymnasium and 203 textbook ttes approved for use In
approved for use in gymnasium        secondary general education subjects)  gymnasium (produced under the project)
Increase in number of textbook Uties  250 (total including primary, gymnasium and 420 secondary general education subjects
approved for use in secondary general  secondary general education subjects)  (produced outside the project)
education subjects.(Grades 9-12)
Increase In number of textbook itles  n/a                                  660 textbook Utle
published through private sector publishers.
Increase in student teacher ratio in primary  n/a                         -2.66%
education.
Increase in student teacher rato in  n/a                                   1.47%
gymnasium.
Increase In student teacher ratio in academic n/a                         4 49%
high schools,
Increase in student teacher ratio in technical n/a                         2.12%
high schools.
Increase In student teacher ratio in vocational n/a                        6.23%
programs.
Increase In total expenditures on education  40%                          4 2%
as % of GDP.
Increase in proportion of education  n/a                                   15%
expenditure on non-salary items
Note: Data from 1994 was used as baseline for the above indicators.
Output Indicators:
,S,,, , . . - . .. . - . f - - ~~~~~-            I
Indicaiorhisatri           -    ,, . Projected in.last PSR     -   _   ActuilLaiest Estimati,
Curriculum.
Programs in first draft              66 programs                           443 programs
Grades 1-4                                                                  69 programs
Grades 5-8                                                                 129 programs
Grades 9-12                                                                245 programs
Programs approved by MER             66 programs                           391 programs
Teacher Training
Proposal for pre-service training system  1 proposal                       1 proposal
Regional centers equipped and functioning  6 CCDs                          52 (including 42 CCDs and 10 resource
Teachers trained in:                                                       centers)
- Curniculum                         TBD                                   40,000 teachers
- Assessment                         TBD                                   40,000 teachers
- Textbooks selection                TBD                                   45,000 teachers
- Textbooks use                      TBD                                   12,000 teachers
Assessment and Examnation.
Grade 12 exit exam (Bac)
- 29 -



Content agreed for
- RO lang/Lt.&Math                   2 subjects                            2 subjects
- Other subjects                      15-20 subjects                       90-100 subjects
- Exam syllabuses and sample papers  Copies to Gr. 12 teachers             Copies to Gr. 12 teachers (30 subjects)
delivered
Grade 8 exit exam (Cap):
Content agreed for                   2 subjects                            2 subjects
- Ro lang/Lt&Math                    n/a                                   7 subjects
- Other subjects                     Copies to Gr. 8 teachers              Copies to Gr. 8 teachers (9 subjects)
- Exam syll
Occupatonal standards:
RTSU established                     1 Unit                                1 unit
Occupational standards established   300 occupations                       300 occupation
Test Rtems validated                 300 occupations                       300 occupatons
Textbooks:
Invitation to submit proposals for approved
new cunicula programs (TAB)          66 prrams                             391 programs
Textbooks proposals approved for new  250 tiUtles                          348 titles
curricula programs (TAB)
Textbooks delivered to schools (publishers  20 million textbooks           24 million textbooks
through 41 hnspectorates)
Education Financing and Management
Improved allocation formula established and  2 sets                        1 set
in use
Financial managers trained           29,000 managers in 41 Judets          10,000 managers
Computerized montoring informaton system   m
functioning                           1                                    1
End of project
Note: Data sourcefor this annex was MER PCU.
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Apprvisal t  ActiualfL.Mtest'  P&centag'e of
iEstsnate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost'BSyComponent       '.    US$ milUon    US$ million  ,
I. Raising quality of basic and secondary education
A. Curriculum                                       3.20           1.62           50.6
B. Teacher Training                                 6.20           4.03             65
C. Assessment and Examination                       6.80           4.93           72.5
D. Occupational Standards                           2.30           2.11           91.7
E. Textbooks                                       47.20          28.43           60.2
F. Rural Education*                                               11.47
HI. Improving education financing and management
A. Resource Allocation, Management and Finance      6.00           8.86          147.6
B. Coordination and Implementation                  1.80           1.50           83.3
*Sub-component added as per Bank Notification dated
March 14, 2000.
Total Baseline Cost                                  73.50          62.95
Total Project Costs             73.50          62.95
Total Financing Required              73.50          62.95
- 31 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arra gements (Appraisal Estimate) a/ (US$ million equiv lent)
. . . t ~~~~~~~~~~~~LCE'                  04henr  .W,!bi ' 1 . .....
1. Civil Works                             ,                          0.2        0.2
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment & Materials        7.5                    0.8                    8.3
(7.3)                  (0.8) c/ d/            (8.0)
2.2 Textbooks                               22.4                   19.1       41.4
(22.4)                             (22.4)
2.3 Furniture                                                      0.1         0.1
2.4 Vehicles                                            0.1                    0.1
._______                  (0.1)c/                (0.1)
2.5 Computers                    2.8                    0.3                    3.1
(2.8)                  (0.3) c/               (3.1)
.L,,*  .J102t  a  .4    . I..2        .        X     .2
%  ~~ .  tr  - J *  ..  9,(10J1).tW  >~(22.4),  w  (1' . GJ )      (8
3. Consultancies  Training
3.1 Implementation support                              9.0                    9.0
(9.0)                  (9.0)
3.2 Institutional Development                           0.5                    0.5
(0.5)                  (0.5)
3.3 Studies                                             0.1                    0.1
(0.1)                  (0.1)
3.4 Training                                            5.8                    5.8
(5.8)                  (5.8)
4. Incremental Operating costs                             1.0 e/     3.9         4.9
___________________________________                 (1.0 )                 (1.0 )
..~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3-                                          1:;1)i' ..e.z!i6t;_ 20.3
r  _;                                                  (16S.4)   3_i__.9___ __
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
a/ Figures may not add to totals due to rounding.
b/ Non-Bank Financed; financed 100 percent by the Government.
c/ Intemational and local shopping - US$0.7 million and US$0.5 million aggregate, respectively.
d/ Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are of proprietary nature may be awarded after direct
negotiation with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
e/ Includes overhead for project management support, etc.
- 32 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arran gements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                  Procurement Method     .         Total Cost.
ICB        LCB.       Other.   . NBF
1. Civil Works                                                      0.25       0.25
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment & Materials      4.60                   0.70                  5.30
(4.60)                (0.70)                 (5.30)
2.2 Textbooks                             17.60                  9.90       27.50
(17.60)                          (17.60)
2.3 Furniture                              2.00                  1.50       3.50
(2.00)                           (2.00)
2.4 Vehicles                                          0.04       0.01       0.05
(0.04)                 (0.04)
2.5 Computers                   9.10                                        9.10
(9.10)                                       (9.10)
2.6 Teaching aids*              4.00                                        4.00
(4.00)                                       (4.00)
2.7 Printings                              1.70                  0.04        1.74
_______________________________  ____ (I.70)  (1.70)
Subtotal I                        17:70      21.30       0.70  .    11.75      51.45
(17.70)   (21.30)     (0.70)      .         (39.70)
3. Consultancies & Training
3.1 Implementation Support                            5.80                  5.80
(5.80)                 (5.80)
3.2 Institutional Development                         1.25                   1.25
(1.25)                 (1.25)
3.3 Studies                                           0.08                  0.08
(0.08)                 (0.08)
3.4 Training                                          1.60                   1.60
(1.60)                 (1.60)
4. Incremental Operating Costs                           1.60       1.20       2.80
(1.60)                 (1.60)
Subtotal 2                                              1.il0.30    1.20   . l 1.50.
.;~~~ .     -    ,       ._____ .,*t .e-          .(W.3,., .            (10 .,>
TOTAL                             17: 7                 11.00       12.95 1 . Z ;82
.  . _________________________  (17 70)     (21.30)    (11.00)       .       (50!.00)
* Item added as per Loan Amendment dated September 20, 2000.
Figures may not add to totals due to rounding.
- 33 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
e   .  I .  +.  . .  4    .   rercentage Of Appralsal
C_________________    Appraisal Estimate          Acla  atet lDsti    tatet         o :. .   a
....____ _._.__X__._ ...., ..... , .. E . ..d. , Bank  (tovt.  -CeoF..  Bank,  Govt..  CoF.  DBank  CoF.
. Raising quality of basic  42.20  23.50             40.22      12.37             95.3   52.6
and secondary education
A. Curriculum          3.10      0.10                1.42      0.20             45.8   200.0
B. Teacher Training    6.00      0.20                4.00      0.03              66.7   15.0
C. Assessment and      2.80      4.00                4.24      0.69             151.4   17.3
Examination
D. Occupational        2.20      0.10                2.10      0.01             95.5    10.0
standards
E. Textbooks           28.00     19.10              18.54      9.89              66.2   51.8
F. Rural Education*    0.00      0.00                9.92      1.55              0.0    0.0
H. Improving education   7.80     0.00                9.78      0.58              125.4  0.0
financing and management
A. Resource Ailocation,  6.00    0.00                8.39      0.47             139.8   0.0
Management and Finance
B. Coordination and    1.80      0.00                1.39      0.11              77.2   0.0
Implementation
TOTAL                   50.00     23.50               50.00     12.95             100.0 1255.1
* Sub-component added as per Bank Notification dated March 14, 2000.
- 34 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal, nor was it done at
the time of the ICR.
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Sta (i'jeC~cle d*SX.4'a]_________c_Raih'_-,
S&ge'_Pmjed c  l      e .; r  ;  -t:' 'No. of Persons n  ty-  .Ratig            .
*1                        saX @.Nc:~2.E.,b,,r -1.nomists, .1 FMS, etc.) '.: ^  iplme6ijo De'e1oits  F e
..-.s'*;c;o b- Mntir   tC&int!p- . _, .Special ty-  .-  .-. P    psbjeivi -
Id ent;ification/Preparation
11/03/1991              6  TASK TEAM LEADER (TTL)
(1); EDUCATION ECONOMIST
(1); PRINCIPAL GEN.
EDUCATOR (1);
CONSULTANTS (3)
02/03/1992              7   TTL (1); DIV. CHIEF (1); SR.
IMPLEMENTATION
SPECIALIST (I);
EMPLOYMENT & TRNG.
SPEC. (1); EDUCATION
ECONOMIST (1); EDUC.
TECH. SPECIALIST (1);
CONSULTANT (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/08/1992              9   PRE-APPRAISAL MISSION
MEMBERS: TTL (1); SR.
IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
(1); CURRICULUM SPEC.
(1); GEN. EDUC. SPEC. (I);
EMPLOYMENT &
TRAINING SPEC. (1);
EDUC. ECONOMIST (1);
ASSESSMENT SPEC. (1);
TEACHER TRAINING
SPEC. (1); EDUC.
MATERIALS SPEC. (1)
03/22/1993             11   APPRAISAL MISSION
MEMBERS: TTL (1); SR.
IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
CURRICULUM & TEACHER
TRAINING SPEC. (1); GEN.
EDUC. SPEC. (1); SR.
EMPLOYMENT & TRAINING
SPEC. (1); ASSESSMENT
SPEC. (1); TEXTBOOK SPEC.
(1); PROJECT MONITORING &
EVALUATION SPEC. (1);
OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
Supervision
07/22/1994              5   TTL (1); CURRIC.             S           S
SPECIALIST (1);
TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST
- 36 -



(1) OPERATIONS
OFFICER (1);
OPERATIONS ANALYST
(1);
03/03/1995             5   TTL (1); PROJECT OFFICER    S          S
(1); OPERATIONS .OFFICER.
(1); ASSESSMENT
CONSULTANT (1);
TEXTBOOK CONSULTANT
(1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
(1)
06/30/1995             6   EDUCATION                   S          S
ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
EMPLOYMENT SPECIALIST
(1); CONSULTANT (2);
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
11/21/1995             5  EDUCATION                    S          S
ECONOMIST/TTI. (1)-
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
EMPLOYMENT SPECIALIST
(1); CONSULTANT (2)
06/07/1996             4   EDUCATION                   S          S
ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
CONSULTANT (2);
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
04/30/1997             4   EDUCATION                   S          S
ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
CONSULTANT (2);
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
11/14/1997             5  EDUCATION                    s          S
ECONOMIST/ITL(1);
CONSULTANT (2);
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
EMPLOYMENT SPECIALIST
(1)
05/27/1998             5   EDUCATION                   S          S
ECONOMIST/TTL(I);
CONSULTANT (2); TEAM
LEADER (1); ASSISTANT
PROJECT OFFICER (1)
06/30/1999             6   SR. EDUCATION SPEC./TTL     S          S
(1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
(1); SR. EDUCATION
SPECIALIST (1); GENERAL
EDUCATION SPEC (1);
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
- 37 -



FIN. MANAG. SPECIALIST (1)
10/22/1999                5   SR. OPERATIONS OFF/TTL,        S           S
PTL (1); EDUCATION
SPECIALIST (I); SR.
EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
FINANCIAL&MANAG. SPECI
(1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
(1)
10/06/2000                5   SR. OPERATIONS /TTL, PTL       S           S
(1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
(1); SR.IMPLEMENTATION
OFFI (1); FIN.MANAGEMENT
SPECIAL (1); OPERATIONS
ANALYST (1)
04/06/2001                4   SR-OPERATIONS /TTL, PTL        S            S
(I); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
(I); OPERATIONS ANALYST
(1); SR.IMPLEMENTATION
SP. (1)
12/17/2001                2   SR. OPERATIONS/TTL, PTL        S            S
I (1),, OPERATIONS ANALYST
(1)
ICR
06/17/2002                5   SR. OPERATIONS                 S            S
OFFICERITTL,PTL (1);
OPERATIONS ANALYST
(1); EDUCATION
SPECIALIST
CONSULTANT (I);
PROGRAM ASSISTANT
(1); TEAM ASSISTANT
(1)
(b) Staff.
-Stage nf Project Cvcle  .-.          Actual/Latest Estimate   ,
.      .; - ;      .No. Staff weeks             L1S$.(00   . 
Identification/Preparation  Info not available      Info not available
Appraisal/Negotiation      Info not available       Info not available
Supervision                        206.34                    613.9
ICR                                   1.2                     2.85
Total                              207.54                   616.75
Note: FACT data available onlyfrom 1996.
- 38 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
Ol Sector Policies                   O H *SUOM O N O NA
LI Physical                          OH   *SUOM      ON   ONA
O Financial                          O H * SU O M O N O NA
LI Institutional Development         * H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N        * NA
LI Gender                      OH   OSUOM      O N *NA
UI Other (Please specify)      OH OSUOM ON * NA
O Private sector development         0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Public sector management            O H   *SUOM O N O NA
L Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N        * NA
- 39 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
O Lending                                          OHS*S OU OHU
OI Supervision                                     OHS OS       0    U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS      0 U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
El Preparation                                      OHS OS      O    U  0 HU
Li Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                O HS O S    O U    0 HU
Ol Overall                                          OHS OS      O  U   O HU
-40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
School at the Crossroads: Change and Continuity in the Compulsory Education Curriculum. Ministry of
Education and Research, Center Education 2000+, and National Curriculum Council, Bucharest 2001.
Romania Education Reform Project: Teacher Training Component April 1998 - December 2001. Impact
Study. Education Development Center, Inc., Global Learning Group. Boston: February 5, 2002.
Operational Guidelines for Textbooks and Reading Materials. The World Bank, Washington, DC: 2000.
Quantitative and Qualitative Impact Studies of the Textbook Component of ERP. The British Council,
Bucharest, 2001.
Relaunching Education in Rural Ares. The Ministry of Education and Research, Bucharest, 2002.
Impact Study on the Rural Education Pilot (draft) . Education 2000+ Center, Bucharest, 2002.
Staff Appraisal Report, World Bank. March 16, 1994
- 41 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report
Ministry of Education and Research
Project Coordination Unit
Education Reform
Project 3724-RO
Final Evaluation Project Report
June 28, 2002
-42 -



Content
1. Assessment of project objectives
1.1 Curriculum development
1.2 Teacher training
1.3 Assessment and Examination
1.4 Textbooks
1.5 Finance and Management
1.6 Occupational Standards
1.7 Rural Education Development
1.8 Project Coordination Unit
1.9 Lessons learned
2. Financial statement
2.1 Disbursement
2.2 Efficiency of funds spending
3. Evaluation of performance of the Bank and of other donors
3.1 Evaluation of the World Bank performance
3.2 Performances of other donors
4. Annexes
- 43 -



1. Assessment of project objectives
As described in the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report (Romania, Education Reform
Project, The World Bank, March 16, 1994), the Education Reform Project aimed 'to support
the Government's strategy to reform the [...I basic and secondary education" (SAR, 11). Two
objectives were considered as crucial to support the reforming approach in education:
(a)   update and improve the quality of basic and secondary education by strengthening
the curriculum and teacher training, assessment and examination, and textbooks quality; and
(b) develop and introduce measures that will increase efficiency of public resources for
education.
To cope with these objectives, the implementation effort was directed towards six
components dealing with curriculum development, teacher training, assessment and
examination, occupational standards and assessment, textbooks, and resource allocation,
management and mobilization. In March 2000 a massive reallocation was approved by the
Bank and the Romanian Government, a new component - Rural development pilot - being
added. For each of these components specific goals were established. The Project
recommended measures to strengthen the managerial capability of the central institutions
and to foster the schools capacity to introduce and manage the change.
The following sections are a description of the educational background that made the
reform necessary and an assessment of the level of achievements of the goals specific for each
of the Project components.
1.1 Curriculum development
(Annex l/Table 1, Annex 2/Table 1)
Background and rationale
The main features of the Romanian curriculum before 1994 were:
Centralization
The education system was guided by a compulsory, rigid 'education plan', establishing a
fix number of hours for each subject matter. There was no chance for the schools or for the
students, parents, or other stakeholders to have their own input on school curriculum.
Alternative educational approaches were not accepted.
Information centered system
The subject matter curricula were defined mainly in terms of encyclopaedic, factual
information. The most part of the school curriculum was over loaded with compulsory
information to be learned by all students. Either student's specific needs or individual
learning rhythm were not considered.
Initial goals
The main and single goal of Curriculum Development Project component was the
development of new curricula according to a new education paradigm.
The expected outcomes as established by the Staff Appraisal Report was the preparation
and validation of 66 curricula for grades 1 through 12.
- 44 -



Implementation
Set up in 1994, the National Curriculum Board (until 1997 there was a common National
Curriculum and Teacher Training Board) has been leaded by the following persons: Emil Pop
(1995-1996), Alexandru Crisan (1997-1999), Matei Cerkez (1999), Mihaela Singher
(2000-2002). Initially the reform effort was focused on the development of new curricula for
primary and secondary education. The Ministry, approved the new proposed curricula (Fig. 1),
as follows:
*     1996 - grades I to VI and IX
*     1997 - grade VII
*     1998 - grade VIII
*     1999 - grades X-XII
Working groups including more than 1,000 teachers, researchers and professors have
developed a total of 391 subject matters curricula for the grades I to XII. The approval process
involved other 700 specialists representing all educational levels.
All subject matter curricula have been published in large enough print runs to cover the
needs of the school inspectorates, teacher training centers, and, at least, one copy for each
school, as follows:
*     1996 - subjects curricula for the grades I to IV and V
*     1998 - subject curricula for the grade VI
- National Curriculum Framework for Compulsory Education
- National Curriculum. Subject curricula for primary education
*     1999 - National Curriculum. Subject curricula for the grades V-VIII
- National Curriculum. Subject curricula for the grade IX
*     2000 - National Curriculum. Subject Curricula for the grade X
*     2001 - National Curriculum. Subject Curricula for the grades X-XII
During 1995-1996, the new subject matter curricula were substantially improved:
ideological load was replaced with a pluralistic approach, educational goals were redesigned
to answer today's challenges, higher-level intellectual skills, as well as social and emotional
skills were paid a special attention. However, the feed-back received by the Ministry of
Education during 1996 and 1997 pointed out that this activity cannot lead by itself to a real
reform of the school life in Romania. As a consequence, two additional goals have been
established:
1.    restructuring the curriculum framework, and
2.    enabling the teachers to implement the new curricula.
1. Restructuring the curriculum framework
During 1997 and 1999 a new national curriculum  (it currently includes 12 volumes)
was developed, based on the following educational policy principles:
*     decentralization and flexibility
*     reducing the formal curriculum requirements
*     effectiveness
*     compatibility with European quality standards
*     cultural selection and hierarchy
*     coherence
*     equal opportunities
*     links with social issues
The new curriculum framework comprehensively reshaped teaching and learning in
primary and secondary education. It was structured in a common (compulsory) part of
approximately 70% and a school-based curriculum of approximately 30% of teaching time, in
upper secondary the percentage of the school-based curriculum being higher. In order to
support the students' personal development according the age characteristics and to balance
-45 -



the presence of different cultural fields, the new curriculum was structured in seven areas
Language and Communication, Mathematics and Sciences, Social Studies, Art and Sport,
Technology, Counselling and Orientation) and five key-stages (Basic acquisitions -
preparatory year in kindergartens, grades I and II, Development - grades III to VI, Observation
and orientation - grades VII to IX, Reinforcement - grades X to Xl, and Specialization - grade
XII/XIII).
The implementation of the national curriculum started in the school year 1998-1999. It
was immediately followed by a revision of all subject matters curricula for compulsory
education (grades I to VIII).
During 1999-2000 the curricula for high school (grades IX to XII) have been revised (IX)
or developed (X-XII) according to a new curricular philosophy focusing on competencies, and
aiming (i) to focus the didactic activity on the development of skills, competencies, and
attitudes, (ii) to state a new teaching paradigm for each subject, (iii) to ensure curricular
standards of achievement, (iv) to propose a variety of student-centered learning activities, and
(v) to select those contents which are relevant from the psycho-pedagogical perspective.
2. Enabling the implementation of the new curricula
The lack of funds allocated in the initial project for teacher training activities (except
some minor pilot activities) has a negative influence on the Project implementation. The
assumption that the existing training structures will be able to support the implementation of
the new curriculum was not a realistic one. As a consequence, a large training program has
been launched in March 2000 under the responsibility and supervision of the National
Curriculum Board. So far, more than 8,000 teacher trainers have been enabled to conduct
further local (school based) training activities on teaching methodology (subject based), or on
basic computer sldls.
ln November 2001 an impact study on curriculum reform measures has been completed.
Organized in 352 compulsory schools (I to VIII), the survey aimed to reflect the influence of
the new curricular strategy on the development of the school system. The findings have been
included in a comprehensive report, which was publicly discussed and largely disseminated.
Sustainability
Over the last three years, the new curriculum has been playing the role of the 'driving
force' of the education reform. A recent impact study (Ministry of Education and Research and
Foundation Education 2000+, Scoata la rascruce, Bucharest, 2001) stresses the tremendous
change in values and teaching paradigms promoted through the new curriculum, its
advantages in helping students reach their full potential through meaningful learning
experiences.
However, in 2001 the Ministry of Education and Research considered the claims that
schools are not enough prepared to properly manage the curriculum and decided to reduce
the school-based curriculum to only 5-10% of the learning time.
From the institutional point of view, in 2000 the Romanian Government established the
National Curriculum Council as an autonomous body aiming to carry on the curriculum
development. In 2001, the initial decision has been revised, the National Curriculum Council
working under the umbrella of the Institute for Educational Sciences.
-46 -



Fig 1. Approval and implementation of the new curricula
12 -
10 _                    _ _=
9__                                    _
42        _                       _-          _
6ll
5 -~~~4-
4~~4
0
1995- 1996- 1997- 1998- 1999- 2000- 2001- 2002-
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000 2001   2002 2003
*   Approval year
+     Implementation year
1.2 Teacher training
(Annex 1/Table 2, Annex 2/Table 2)
Background and rationale
The main features of the Romanian curriculum before 1994 were:
Centralization
The education system was guided by a compulsory, rigid 'education plan', establishing a
fix number of hours for each subject matter. There was no chance for the schools or for the
students, parents, or other stakeholders to have their own input on school curriculum.
Alternative educational approaches were not accepted.
Information centered system
The subject matter curricula were defined mainly in terms of encyclopaedic, factual
information. The most part of the school curriculum was over loaded with compulsory
information to be learned by all students. Either student's specific needs or individual
learning rhythm were not considered.
Initial goals
Objective I: Development of pre-service teacher training system
Pre-service teacher training, one of the major objectives of the reform project, has been
addressed through the following actions undertaken so far:
Sk    Assessing needs and publishing a survey report on the findings - 1999.
- 47 -



>     Organizing a National seminar and debate on survey findings; the seminar also
fostered healthy communication among stakeholders in the field, the first national reunion of
experts in pedagogy - Febr. 1999.
>     Conclusions and proposals for reorganizing the pre-service teacher training system,
submitted for decision making to the Ministry of National Education - Febr. 1999.
>     Decision taken to redesign content and amount of time allocated to teaching of
subject methodology and student teaching practice, OMEN nr.3345/25.02. 1999, implemented
as of academic year 1999-2000.
>     Study visits for participants from university and preuniversity institutions, organized
to acquire information about pre-service teacher education systems in other countries:
England, the Netherlands, Germany, the United States; mention should be made that the
main action lines of the National Center for Teacher Training emerge from the experience
acquired along this project - 1999.
>     Initiative for legislative change through Government Ordinance 91/2000, which
created the legal background for the implementation of reform measures in improving a
teaching standards based teacher training system and teacher performance assessment -
2000.
>     Equipping of the NCTT with same equipment as the CCDs in the 42 counties, to serve
teacher training purposes - 2000, 2001.
The implementation activity has been assisted by Education Development Center from
USA.
I.A. Develop a system for professional standards for teaching in Romania
I.B. Develop a standards-based assessment system for teaching in Romania
The project time framework allowed for the desigriing of the policy criteria and
institutional locations for teaching standards (policy paper and strategy), the writing of a set
of standards for specific fields and age groups and the writing of a set of pilot standards-based
performance assessment criteria and instruments. The Ministry of Education and Research
will have to further support and assist the development and implementation of the program,
after Project end.
Expected Outcomes                        Result
1. Poliey paper and national 1. Document designed by consultant James
strategy for the development  Kelly, in co-operation with Romanian experts,
of teacher education and   under contract with the MER (documents
professional development in  translated into Romanian);
Romania based on teaching
standards
2.                         2.
- A set of core principles for  - 10 core principles elaborated by working
the Teaching Standards and  groups
- Two sets of written      - two sets of professional teaching standards
standards for specific fields  written for the primary school teacher and for
and age groups             the mathematics teacher, lower secondary;
- 48 -



Expected Outcomes                            Result
3.1.  Two sets of pilot     3.1.
standards-based performance  a. Criteria identified to be used in developing
assessment criteria and     and using assessment of standards based
samples;                   teaching performance;
b. Performance assessment tests designed
relevant for the standards written;
3.2. Methodology for the    3.2. Methodology elaborated by working group of
"definitivat" evaluation    stakeholders in successive workshops and
process = certification for the  revised drafts
profession, according to    Methodology contains:
standards for the teaching  . Role and responsibilities of mentor, school
profession;                 head, inspector, university methodologist;
- Includes Methodology for  . Terms of reference for inspection and
supported induction for     inspection board
newly qualified teachers, with  . Description of written examination
definition of role and      . Reporting and result appraisal (in view of
responsibilities of guiding  further developing funding mechanisms)
mentor teacher
3.3. Working group of stakeholders to elaborate
3.3.  Design of career      description of possible career routes, a teaching
options for a teacher in    path, an educational management /
Romania;                    administrative path;
4. Acquiring the experience of 4. A group of six people directly involved in the
the American educational    management of teacher education and
system in implementing a    development in Romania have participated in a
standards based teaching    study visit to American Centers of good example
assessment system;          in the field;
5. Improved quality of      5.Two officials directly involved in teacher
teacher training and of     education and development in Romania have
educational system          participated in a course on strategies, methods,
management in Romania;      and programmatic approaches to education at
_  Harvard Univ., Graduate School of Education;
All the activities above have involved representatives of both the pre-university and the
university sub-systems.
I.C. Designing and developing a coherent Pre-service Teacher Training Unit: university -
school of application - induction period - 'definitivat'/certification for the profession
Expected Outcomes                          Result
1. A number of 464 mentors      1. 464 teachers of 14 university Centers
trained to enhance quality of initial  have been trained as mentor teachers in 10
teacher training                six-day training sessions, run by Romanian
mentor-trainers
2. A number of 80 university and  2. 57 university methodologists trained and
pedagogical college methodologists CD produced in collaboration with University
trained                         of Northern Iowa
- 49 -



Objective II. Development of in-service teacher training system
CCD capacity surveyed and developed to support in-service teacher training:
Material resources
-     Needs assessment carried out followed by Survey Report on in-service teacher
training, published May 2000
-     National Seminar in January 2000, about 100 stakeholders all over the country
participating;
-     Training of CCD directors to enhance their in-service management capacity (abroad 9,
in-country 42); 2000
-     42 CCDs, National Teacher Training Center Bucharest, National German Teacher
Training Center of Media, and 9 rural teacher training resource Centers equipped according
to modem educational requirements and to needs reported;
-     The syllabi for the professional teaching degrees (programe grade didactice) have been
revised and updated by working groups per subject, in spring 2000;
Human resources
-     A national corpus of generic skills teacher trainers has been created as an upgraded
human resource for in-service teacher training activities all over the country; 1998-2001
-     41 teachers of economics trained as local trainers for student centered teaching of
economics; May, 1999.
II.A. Empowering an institutional network of teacher development resource Centers
Expected Outcomes                         Result
1. Capacity of CCDs and selected rural  1.  Complete equipping of CCDs and
Centers enhanced to grow into       selected rural Centers according to
in-service teacher training resource  objectives of in-service teacher training;
Centers, according to list of equipment;
2. Resource capacity of National Center  2.  Complete equipping of National
developed according to list of equipment; Center, ready to develop planned
activities;
3. 42 CCD directors and 42 CCD- ICT  3. Two 2-day workshops to train CCD
experts trained on use of equipment and directors and CCD- ICT experts on use of
technology to develop teaching materials  equipment and technology to develop
and added value in teaching quality  teaching materials and added value in
teaching quality, co-operation with
French
4. Long distance in-service teacher  4. Strategy paper elaborated by TA
development strategy                expert in co-operation with local experts
5. Long distance in-service teacher  5. Working groups organized to develop
development materials produced and  learning materials for distance learning
edited                             teacher development, under guidance by
EDC technical assistance
6. Long distance in-service teacher  100 teachers trained in European
development - 100 teachers trained in  Computer Driving Licence
use of PC
- 50 -



II.B. Enhancing human resource capacity involved in in-service teacher training
Expected Outcomes                        Result
1. A corpus of 50 national trainers with 1.  A corpus of 49 national trainers
generic skills in teacher development  have been through final evaluation and
certification as teacher trainers with
generic skills in teacher development
II.C. Publications
Expected Outcomes                        Result
Six teacher's and trainer's guides as Six trainer's and teacher's guides printed
support materials for generic skills in in 8,000 copies (IT Guide - 9,000),
in-service training                 Presentation leaflet (12,000) distributed
to schools
Professional standards for teaching and  15,000 copies printed in Romania and
standards based assessment criteria-  6,000 in English largely distributed in
published and distributed          schoois, irnspectorates, CCDs
All methodologies elaborated by working Publicized via the Ministry Web page
groups under the project, edited and
published
Two guides on Economics             Two guides on Economics:
-     Economics Teacher's Guide;
-     Economics Trainer's Guide
Sustainabilty
The National Center for Teacher Training was set up through the Government Ordinance
91/2000 as a measure of sustainability to the actions in the project. The new body was
aiming at further developing teaching standards and quality accredited training programs.
The body was reorganized through the Government Decision no. 604/June 2001, the new
institution including the activity related to the accreditation of the management programs as
well.
Currently, the institutions functions under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education
and Research (the General Department for In-service Teacher Training), and has its own
payroll and budget.
Note: The Teacher Training component has been leaded by: Emil Pop (1995), Emil Paun
(1996), Irinel Chiran (1997-1998), Lucia Gliga (1999-2002).
1.3 Assessment and Examination
(Annex 1/Table 3, Annex 2/Table 3)
Background and rationale
Poor assessment aims and tools
- 51 -



Following the curricular constraints, before 1994, the assessment system used to be
mainly a summative one, measuring the quantity of information learned. There was only a
small interest for assessing the students' capacity to apply the information, to use them in
real life contexts or to conclude on the quality of students' behavior.
The assessment methods and tools considered by the teachers in their day-to-day activity
were mainly the traditional ones - oral examination and hand-written papers.
There were no assessment or examination standards and criteria, the marks in the school
system not being nation wide relevant.
Selectivity and eltism
Through its examination components, the education system aimed to select 'the best'
students in terms of information learned. Passing such a very selective exam was the only
opportunity for the students to enter the upper education levels. The educational needs of
'the others' were not considered.
itial goals
The objectives of the examinations and assessment sub-component were:
*     To support and 'drive' planned changes in the structure and content of school
education;
*     To review and modernize the existing national examinations (lyc6e and baccalaureate)
and to build the technical expertise and institutional capacity needed to meet such new
requirements as may be set by law or Ministry policy; and,
*     To improve the technical quality of assessment and examinations, so that they meet
three basic purposes: certification, selection, and providing information about the quality of
education to the public.
The key outputs thus far have been:
*     Establishment of the National Assessment and Examinations Service (SNEE) as the
organization responsible for the conduct of national examinations and assessments;
Appointment of professional staff to SNEE;
Provision of suitable accommodation and equipment for SNEE;
*     Training of SNEE Officers and members of its subject working groups in principles and
practice of assessment;
*     Introduction of a new 'Capacitate' examination in accordance with the Education Law;
*     Preparation and introduction of new models for the Baccalaureate examinations from
2000 onwards.
Implementation
In 1995, a National Council for Assessment and Examination was set up to lead the
reform in this area. The NAEB has been run by: loan Neacsu (1995-1996) and Adrian Stoica
(1997-2002). For various reasons, during the first years of implementation, just some reform
principles and guidelines were established.
A coherent change at the evaluation of students results level started in 1998 when the
National Assessment and Examinations Service (NAES) was set up as the organization
responsible for conducting the national examinations and national assessments; the NAES
was fully staffed including subject matters specialists and supporting staff. Suitable
accommodation and adequate equipment was provided.
The subject officers and members of its subject working groups have been trained in
principles and practice of assessment.
- 52 -



The reform of the assessment and examination system is based on the following
principles:
ti}   increasing the objectivity of continuous classroom assessment through a band
descriptors system and appropriate assessment instruments;
(ii)  increasing the national relevance of the marking system introducing curricular and
assessment standards and criteria;
(iii)  focusing on the quality of the learning process and the learning progress
emphasizing on the alternative assessment methods;
(iv)  focusing on the quality of school leaving exams;
(v)   increasing the objectivity and transparency of the national examinations
'Capacitate' and 'Baccalaureate';
(vi)  passing from a 'contents based assessment' to 'objectives based assessment';
(vii)  passing from the assessment of memorized information to the assessment of the
capacity to apply the knowledge in new, real life context.
NAES main achievements are:
*     Introduction of a new Capacitate examination in accordance with the Education
Law (starting with 1999), and preparation of new model for the Baccalaureate examination
(from 2000 onwards); the new.exams' implementation strategy included:
-     preparation of examination sylLabi: 2 sets: for Capacitate 2002, and for Baccalaureate
-     pilot testing of the exams' papers at judet level
-     preparation of the final versions of tests
-     printing and distribution of the exams' papers
-     delivery of he exams
-     preparation and dissemination of the final reports;
)     Introduction of a new National Assessment at the end of Grade IV (1998 and
2000).
*     Participating in international assessment studies (i.e. PISA+).
The impact of the reform measures on the quality of the assessment and examination
system have been closely monitored. The conclusions highlighted that the reform process
would be more efficient if additional goals will accompany the implementation process.
These new goals were:
1.    producing training assessment materials for teachers;
2.    organizing training sessions to support the teachers effort to implement the new
assessment and examination measures;
3.    developing the local capacity to organize exams.
1. Producing training assessment materials for teachers
During the 1998-2001 a large range of assessment guides and training materials have
been developed and delivered, as follows:
-     The Teacher Assessment Guides for: Romanian Language, Foreign Languages,
Religion, Biology, Informatics, to be distributed out of charge in schools. -  The
Examination tests both for Capacitate, and Baccalaureate Examinations, published on
CD-rom
*     1996 - The assessment and examination general guide
*     1998 - The assessment of the school results in primary education - Band Descriptors
- How to assess, how to mark, how to communicate the school results?
- Assessment of pupils leaming results in primary schools. A handbook.
- Teachers' assessment guides (8 subject matters)
*     1999 - The qualification <Excellent> in primary education
- 53 -



- A marking criteria systemfor lower and upper secondary schools
- The national assessment system for physical education and sport
*     2001 - Assessment of learning results in primary education - Band Descriptors
- Teachers' assessment guides (5 subject matters)
- The Examiners'guide
- The National Assessment and Examination Service - Rational and evolution
- Four educational policy papers on assessment of learning results
2. Organizing training sessions
The dissemination of the information regarding the new assessment philosophy,
methods and tools have been considered as being essential for the success of the reform.
Training sessions have been organized to answer training needs of the subject matters
inspectors all over the country. Special training programs have been delivered for the school
mentors. The NAES supported the training activity organized by curriculum, teacher training
and management project components, having its own input to the training of school national
and local trainers, educational managers and to enhancing the implementation capacity in
pilot rural areas.
3. Develop local examination capacity
To enhance the local capacity to organize the exams, NAES has equipped 631 exam
centers from rural/disadvantaged areas with copy machines to multiply the exam papers for
each student. The Examiners' Guide were printed and disseminated in all schools organizing
exams and 50,000 examiners have been trained.
The implementation activity was successfully assisted by The Institute for Educational
Measurements (CITO) from The Netherlands.
Sustainability
The National Assessment and Evaluation Service (NAES) was set up through the
Government Decision no. 376/06.25.1998 as an autonomous body, responsible for delivering
the national examination and assessments, and for the quality of formative classroom
evaluation as well. The NAES director is accountable in front of the minister of education.
Being fully staffed, fully equipped, having its own budget and precise responsibilities, NAES
seems to be the most sustainable body created under the Education reform project. NAES has
received also international recognition being member of prestigious international assessment
bodies and invited on a permanent basis to represent Romania in different international
assessment exercises.
1.4 Textbooks
(Annexes 1/Table 4, Annex 2/Table 4)
Background and rationale
State monopoly
Between the two world wars, Romania used to have a strong textbooks market. However,
under the previous communist regime the education system was reshaped in an extremely
centralized manner. As a consequence, between 1948 and 1994 one single textbook per
subject matter was accepted and one state owned publishing house was in charge with the
printing and distribution of textbooks.
Poor quality
The textbooks were printed in very poor conditions in terms of physical support and the
- 54 -



illustration. The textbooks content were overburdened with information to be memorized by
the students. The students' capacity to reproduce the textbooks' information was the bases of
the examination process.
Shortages
Because of budget constraints, exacerbated by inflation, not all students used to have
access to appropriate, new textbooks. Shortages were heightened by an ineffective
distribution system. There were no budgetary provisions to cover teachers initiatives to
develop their own teaching materials.
Initial goals
The textbooks project component aimed:
*     to develop new textbooks answering the new curriculum requirements;
*     to introduce a new mechanism of textbooks provision based on the competition
between non-subsidised publishers
*     to create institutional mechanisms encouraging the teachers to choose appropriate
textbooks
*     to introduce budgetary ceilings for individual schools calculated on a students per
capita basis.
The expected outcomes of the textbooks' development component are:
*     a semi-autonomous Textbooks Approval Board (TAB) overseeing the reform process at
this level;
*     about 250 titles provided, with an estimated of 20 million textbooks printed and
distributed as part of a tendering process;*
*     the editorial industry able to cover the educational system needs in terms of
textbooks;
Implementation
In 1995 an semi-autonomous Textbooks Approval Board (TAB) was set up. Run by
university professors - Ion Gh. Stanciu 1995-1997, Iancu Fischer (1997-1999), Vasile Morar
(1999) and Mirela Stefanescu (2000-2002) - and including 4 other active teachers, TAB was
responsible in front of the Minister of Education for the development of textbooks related
educational strategies Romania, for the approval of new textbooks, and their distribution to
the county school inspectorates. To accomplish these complex job TAB works with
subject-matter panels.
Editing, printing and distribution of textbooks for compulsory education - grades I to VIII -
(three for each subject matter) are subject of tenders organized by the PCU and the TAB. The
contracts are awarded to those publishing houses submitting good proposals in terms of
quality and asking for reasonable prices. Costs and quality are kept in balance through a
precise and transparent evaluation scheme included in the Bidding Documents (annex 1). At
this level of education the textbooks are free of charge being entirely purchased by the MoE.
During 1995-2001, a number of 10 tenders were organized, as follows (see also the fig. 2):
GRADE              NUMBER OF              NUMBER OF TEXTBOOKS
SUBJECT-MATTERS                   TITLES
I                    11                          26
II                   13                          34
III                   19                          36
IV                   21                           49
- 55 -



GRADE              NUMBER OF             NUMBER OF TEXTBOOKS
SUBJECT-MATTERS                  TITLES
TOTAL I-IV               64                         145
V                    20                          46
VI                   21                          49
VII                  20                          53
VIII                  20                          55
TOTAL V-Vm                81                         203
TOTAL I-VM               145                         348
Creating a textbook market was not considered as a separate goal, but as a part of the
curriculum reform. Textbooks are basically, a tool answering the requests settled in the
philosophy of the curriculum framework, the content of the subject-matter curricula and the
new assessment and examination strategies.
The approved textbooks are subject to exhibitions nation-wide organized (each county of
Romania). The teachers have the opportunity to visit these exhibitions and choose the best
textbook for the students she/he works with.
Achievements
After six years of reform efforts, the following main achievements can be mentioned:
*   a new mechanism set up for the textbooks insurance having an autonomous
Textbooks Approval Board as leadirtg institutions;
*     a group of managers specialized in planning, organizing, monitoring and evaluating of
textbooks development;
*     a strong group of adequately trained specialists on textbooks evaluation
*     more than 40 publishing houses (including foreign publishers) involved in the
development of textbooks;
*     a new generation of textbooks built up for students and not for teachers, developing
those students' knowledge and skills requested by the new curriculum: critical thinking,
problem solving, tolerance, etc. facilitating the integration of the young generation in a new
democratic society;
*     new alternative textbooks for compulsory education (three per subject matter per
grade).
The British Council has successfully assisted the implementation process.
Sustainabllity
At the beginning of the school year 2000-2001, the main task of the Textbooks Approval
Board - producing new textbooks for compulsory education - was accomplished. However, the
Ministry of Education decided to continue the process of renewing the textbooks based on the
same principles: open competition between publishing houses, textbooks chosen by teachers.
In 2001 and 2002 a new generation of textbooks for the grade II and III have been produced
having as single source of financing the regular budget of the Ministry of Education and
Research.
The textbooks insurance process continue to be organized by an externalized specialized
body - The Board for Textbooks Approval and Distribution, set up as such in 2002.
- 56 -



In 2002, as a dimension of the social protection policies, it was decided to introduce a new
system for textbooks evaluation, in which an important role is played by the price. According
to the newly-introduced formula, only the bids whose price does not exceed the lowest price
offer by more than 33% are included on the ministerial list of approved textbooks.
Fig. 2 Implementation of the alternative textbooks
2002-2003
200i2002                                               * High School
1_92 0   .   .  _. . . .  ~   .--.                  9
-. -  0 Compulsory
1996-1997                   --                          education
19 99519 9 6
Grades
1.5 Finance and Management
(Annex 1/Table 5, Annex 2/Table 5)
Background and rationale
Centralization
From a managerial point of view, the Romanian education system before 1994 used to
have the highest degree of centralization in Central and Eastern Europe.
The funds for the hole education system came exclusively from the central state budget on
"demand" base, without any financing criteria. The pupil average expenditure varied
considerably among judet, apparently without any official reasonable explanation. So, there
were few incentives for internal efficiency and it was very difficult for the headteachers to
function as school leaders and managers.
The inspection system focused on control, the support for the professional development
being ignored.
Lack of access to reliable information
The management information system was obsolete and centralized, huge quantities of
information being collected from schools and stocked at the ministry level. The access to
these information was a very difficult for any other organization and, sometimes, even for the
ministry staff. The school inspectorates of the schools themselves did not get any feed-back
on the information provided.
- 57 -



Lack of training
To be a 'good teacher' was enough in order to be promoted as a headteacher or a school
inspector. No managerial skiUs or an initial or in-service professional training was required.
'Common-sense' used to replace, in most of the cases, the managerial knowledge and
implementation skills.
Initi goals
The aims of Management and Finance project component were:
*     To develop, approve and introduce financing formulae at central and local level in
order to increase the efficiency of resource allocation and expenditure.
*     To train school managers in handling the new financial formulae and in educational
financing matters, to support them to use new adequate equipment and software at school
and local administration levels, in order to improve the capability in financial analysis and the
general efficiency of resource allocation and expenditure process .
*     To improve the management information system.
Implementation
The Management and Finance component was set up at the end of 1996 after a long and
difficult process of negotiation. It was leaded by Gheur-gIn. Felea (1995-1996) and Serban
Iosifescu (1997-2002). It's activity started effectively in 1997, after the professional and
financial involvement of the British Government Know-How-Fund which offered a grant of
approx. 800.000 GBP.
The analyses delivered by Romanian and British teams of experts underlined that the
initial goals were not sufficient to attain the second main goal of the ERP: increasing the
efficiency in management of public resources for education. Consequently, the aims' structure
was reconsidered, emphasizing on the education management side, as follows:
Improving the education financing, through:
=w    Developing and implementing of adequate financing formulae and modem ways of
allocation, management and mobilization of resources.
X~ Diversifying the financing sources for education.
X~ Transferring the decision making in financial matters to the local levels (School
Inspectorate, School Units and Local Administration).
Optimizing the structure and functioning of the school system, through:
=w    Analyzing the school system and identifying the blocking factors.
X~ Initiating changes in the Law and Regulation system in order to improve the structure
and functioning of the education system.
=X    Adequate decentralization of the education system and creating new decision making
structures and communication flows.
>     Increasing the role of headteacher.
=>    Redefining the school inspection as a quality assurance system.
=>    Creating a new Educational Management Information System (EMIS).
Improving the management capacity:
=>    Equipping 7 Regional Centers for Innovation and Resources.
=>    Developing a professional development network for the managers within the
educational system.
=X    Training a national body of management trainers,
=n    Training of up to 10.000 of inspectors, headteachers and financial experts.
1. Improving the education financing
- 58 -



Development of new decentralized, formulae-based procedures for resources allocation
started in 1997. However, concrete steps towards implementation were not possible due to
the existing financial legislation in Romania which made decentralization impossible. A new
financial legal framework was created in 1999. Consequently, beginning with the financial
year 2001, the education is financed, mainly from the judets and local budgets.
A set of proposed financial formulae and procedures was developed under the supervision
of a National Council for Financing the Preuniversity Educational System which was set up in
2000.
The new financial procedures will be tested and introduced starting with the financial year
2002 with the support of British Government who allocated a new grant for training and
technical assistance in the financial devolution process.
2. Optimizing the structure and functioning of the school system
The reform of the school management system started with creating a new structure of the
School Inspectorate, clearly separating its functions (inspection, administration, professional
development).
A new inspection system, built from a "quality assurance" perspective was developed and
implemented starting with the school year 1998-1999 (approved by the Ministerial Order No.
4682/28.09.1998).
A new Education Management Information System (EMIS) has been created and became
operational at the beginning at 2002 (pilot stage). The Ministry of Education and Research, 42
school inspectorates and 2016 schools have been equipped with adequate hardware and
software and linked in a national networked. The main purpose of the EMIS is to support the
education political decision allowing all potential users to analyze and synthesize the
collected information. A modern Data Center has been created at the ministry level.
3. Improving the management capacity
The training of the school inspectors and headteachers was considered as vital for the
success at the management level. For efficiency reasons the training program was organized
at the regional level. Seven Regional Centers for Innovation and Resources were equipped to
coordinate the training activity.
A National Program for Headteacher Training was approved by the Ministerial Order No
5283/21.12.1998. Thirty two inspectors' trainers and one hundred and fifty national and
regional trainers for headteachers were trained to support the implementation of the National
Program.
The outcomes of training activities were:
about 1000 inspectors trained for the use of the new inspection system;
*     about 8000 headteachers trained on school management - more than 2000 in a full
program of 200-240 hours and the rest in a partial program of 120 hours;
about 10,000 secretarial, information and data collection staff trained;
about 500 financial experts trained to use the new financial formulae.
The training activity was also supported by printing specific materials, as follows:
=>    The New Inspection Model - 1 copy in each school unit.
X~ The Training Manual for Inspectors - 1 copy for each trainer.
=X    Educational Management for Education Institution - 1 copy in each school unit.
X     Public Preuniversity Education Financing - an investigation for the use of financial
experts.
=>    Materials and Investigations for Preuniversity Education Financing - 1 copy in each
school..
=>    The RoEuNet presentation - 1 copy in each school unit.
- 59 -



But, probably, the main achievement in the education management area is the
development during project life of a new managerial culture. It includes the effort to increase
the efficiency in education, to develop those managerial competencies enabling the schools to
exist in a changing world, to define the school mission according to the real social and
economical life. There are good chances for the development of a new type of relationship
between the schools and the community.
The Council for British Teachers (CfBT) from the United Kingdom has successfully
assisted the implementation process.
Sustainability
Over the last three years the inspection of the preuniversity school system followed the
new models developed under the reform project. The in-service training market was opened
towards new training providers such as NGOs, research institutes, free lancers, etc. The
schools are allowed to use their own incomes for training purposes. In order to ensure the
quality of in-service training on a free market, a National Institution for Management Training
Programs Accreditation was set up in 1999. Later on, in 2002, it was unified with the
in-service teacher training body.
There is a clear evolution towards the financial decentralization of the education system,
in 2002 only 33.65% of the needed financial resources coming from the central budget (in
comparison with 96.1% in 1993). (Source: Ministry of Finance, 2002)
Recently, fi-m measures have been taken for a better and more efficient use of EMIS and
School Mapping softwares.
In 2002 a process of re-evaluation started in the areas of training for education
management and inspection system. The feed-back received after three years of
implementation is supposed to determine a better quality in education management.
1.6 Occupational Standards
(Annex 1/Table 6, Annex 2/Table 6)
Background and rationale
Outdate job analysis techniques
The way in which the vocational training curricula used to be defined was outdated. The
local experience with modem job analysis techniques to produce occupational standards was
limited. The training curriculum development and the assessment of skills and knowledge of
trainees and workers were not based on relevant occupational standards reflecting actual
work practices.
Less mobility on the labor market
Lack of occupational standards used to have a negative impact on the efficient recruitment
of workers and on labor mobility within and outside country. The poor labor mobility has a
significant contribution to the social movements Romania faced over the last decade.
Initial goals
As established in the Staff Appraisal Report, the goals of the Occupational Standards
component were:
1.   to set up a Council for Occupational Standards and Assessment as a standing
tripartite body;
2.    to define the general policies and work program to guide development of occupational
- 60 -



standards and certification means compatible to practices in OECD countries;
3.   to develop a network of local consultants;
4.    to develop a Documentation and Records Center.
Implementation
According to the above mentioned goals, in 1996 the Ministry of Education, Ministry of
Labor, five representative trade-unions and the most important Romanian employers agreed
to set up the Council for Occupational Standards and Assessment (COSA). Under COSA, a
Research and Technical Services Unit (RTSU) was set up (1996), fully staffed and equipped.
Under the supervision of a highly qualified Technical Assistance (Department for
Education, Employment, Training and Youth from Australia), COSA managed to deliver the
following:
*     the methodology regarding the occupational standard-based assessment and
certification tested in four pilot centers;
*     300 occupational standards and 300 relevant assessment tools;
*     a data base including all developed occupational standards and assessment tools,
occupational standards from different other European and world wide countries;
*     8 functioning assessment centers;
*     a network of specialists in occupational standards development covering all country
and the most required occupation on the labor market ready to assist and certify local
agencies that -wish to develop written and performance tests.
The Department for Education, Employment, Youth and Training from Australia efficiently
assisted the implementation process.
8ustainability
In order to make COSA a self-sustainable body, the Romanian Government recognize it in
1999 as an independent three partite organization with a role in increasing the labor force
mobility and productivity. Thus, COSA and RTSU members received a special training
including the preparation of business plans.
A recent new law regarding the long-life training includes COSA and its specific activity in
the structure of the National Training Board, a three partite institution working under the
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection.
1.7 Rural Education Development
(Annex l/Table 7, Annex 2/Table 7)
Background and rationale
Lack of resources
The educational performances of young students from the schools located in rural areas
are severely affected by enormous material difficulties. Time, historical underfunding and
earthquake damaged many school buildings, the equipment making possible a modern, active
teaching approach are lacking in the most part of the schools. Many schools are owned by
very poor communities, unable to ensure financial resources for supplying teaching aids,
computers or incentives for qualified teachers. 22,8% of the teachers are not qualified
(Source: Jigau, Mihaela, fnvavamantul in mediul rural: diagnoza si dezvoltare, Proiectul de
reform& a invavatamantului preuniversitar - repere ale unui proiect pilot de ameliorare,
Ministerul Educatiei si Cercetarii, Bucuresti, 2002) and the access to training programs is
limited. Suitable communication means are poor, the most part of rural schools lacking
- 61 -



internet facilities, and some, even telephone. Bad roads, poor transportation facilities are part
of the picture.
Lack of equity
Such huge disparities in human and material resources create visible disparities
noticeable in the poorer results that the students from rural areas obtain at all school levels.
The distribution of the pass/fail percentages obtained at the 'Capacitate' exam (school-leaving
exam at the end of compulsory education) (Source: Stoica, Adrian, Raport asupra examenului
de Capacitate - 2001, SNEE, Bucuresti, 2001) presented below shows that discrepancies
between urban and rural areas are a constant feature of the Romanian education system.
Year            Location           Pass%             Fail%
1999             urban             82.73             17.27
rural            67.54             32.46
2000             urban             81.39             19.61
rural            68.52             31.48
2001             urban             76.93             23.07
rural            60.32             39.68
Initial goals
The solution that has been provided referred to a significant intervention at rural
education level, which equally aims both at school infrastructure and the quality of human
resources. A first step toward it was the establishment of a pilot program as part of the
Education Reform Project. The pilot addressed the pupils needs in 8 judets ( Maramures,
Botosani, Harghita, Buzau, Constanta, Gorj, Olt and Sibiu), including 2,039 schools and
11,907 classrooms.
The vast needs analyses organized in 1999, determined the Ministry of Education and the
World Bank to focus the activity of the newly approved component on the following objectives:
a.    improvement of the educational offer in rural areas, involving both the quality of the
teaching process and the improvement of the pupils' performances;
b.    increasing the educational capacity of rural schools;
c.    stimulating a creative reaction to change of the teachers and head teachers;
d.    raising the awareness of the local community about the role of school in rural areas,
and promotion of an open relationship between school and community.
- 62 -



Fig. 3 The Rural Development Pilot Counties
Implementation
Set-up in March 2000 under the leading of Mrs. Anca Nedelcu, the National Council for
the Development of Rural Education tailored its activity on five main directions:
a.    providing teaching aids for al pilot project schools;
b.    development of the 'classroom library';
C.    providing adequate equipment for the pilot project schools;
d.    training of the teaching staff and of the all head-teachers;
e.    improving communication between schools and local authorities.
The main achievements of the Rural development project component are:
a.    11,907 classrooms from 2,039 primary and secondary schools received 71,185 didactic
posters for all subject areas, cases for Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry (1,142 for each of
the three subjects), 1,142 microscopes, 2,039 geographical globes, 6,117 atlases (Botanical,
Anatomical, Zoological), 2,039 atlases for Geography, 4,078 maps of the world, 4,304
dictionaries, 6,117 gym mattresses, sport balls, etc.;
b.    students in 6,203 primary classes received 80 titles of books and booklets for the
classroom library, 26,868 teaching games and 2,239 alphabets;
c.    1,149 classrooms received new modular school furniture;
d.    903 schools were equipped with 1,767 computers, 1,070 printers and 1,132 copy
machines;
e.    teachers from all schools were trained to effectively use the new teaching materials
and equipment according to the new curriculum requirements; the training program was
prepared in implemented by experts of the Curriculum project component;
f.    headteachers from all schools were received a 120 hours training program including
basic educational management principles; the heads training was under the responsibility of
the Management and Finance project component.
- 63 -



After only few month from the completion of the activity under rural development
components it is rather impossible to assess its real impact. However, research studies
requested by the Ministry of Education and Research and empirical observations are
highlighting the satisfaction of the teaching staff, pupils, parents and local authorities from
the pilot counties.
As mentioned before, the intervention in the rural areas from the 8 counties have to be
regarded as a pilot approach. In order to make it sustainable, the Ministry of Education and
Research has recently received a Japanese grant for the preparation of a country relevant
project which will, hopefully, start to be implemented in 2003.
1.8 Project Coordination Unit
(Annex 1/Table 8, Annex 2/Table 8)
The Project Coordination Unit activity was focused on the following direction:
1.    preparation of the Steering Committee meetings;
2.    monitoring the components implementation activity;
3.    ensuring the project financial management;
4.    carrying out the procurement activity;
5.    preparation of the project amendments;
6.    preparation of reports;
7.    strengthening the co-operation with nongovernmental organizations.
Implementation
The Project Coordination Unit was set up in December 1993 and has been leaded by Mr.
Eugen Palade (1993-2002). Its main directions of actions were the following.
1.    Preparation of Steering Committee Meetings
Between December 01, 1993 (when the PCU was set up) and the Project Closing Date
(June 28, 2002 - including the grace period), the coordination of the implementation activity
was under the supervision of the Secretary of State in charge with the preuniversity education
together with a Steering Committee including the PCU director and the heads of the project
components. The role of the SC was to adopt education policy decisions related to the project
implementation and to ensure the coherence between the activity of different components.
The SC weekly meetings were prepared by the PCU to address the main issues and obstacles,
to offer feed-back on the implementation stages or to analyze the financial side of the
implementation process.
2.    Monitoring the components implementation activity
The monitoring of the Project activities was one of the most important activity delivered by
the PCU. The monitoring process considered the following aspects of the implementation
effort, which was under the direct responsibility of the Project Boards:
*     quantity of the project achievements;
*     quality of the end products;
*     time as a limited resource;
*     use of funds.
The monitoring process was based on the planning tools like those presented in the Annex
1 (Annex 1 is including only the activities implemented between 2001 and 2002). The
feed-back provided by such periodical progress analyses were starting points of different
financial reallocation or corrections of the project timetables.
- 64 -



3.    Project financial management
The Project financial activity was based on working with two accounts: the Project Special
account (for Loan funds) opened at Romanian Development Bank and the Project Government
Account (for the contribution of the Rornanian Government). Adequate accountant
registrations were made according to the specific national and international procedures.
For the replenishment of the Special Account 115 withdrawal application have been
prepared and accepted by the World Bank Disbursement Department.
The project financial and procurement specialists prepared, awarded and monitored and
evaluated a number of 396 contracts for works, goods and consultants services.
Budgets were prepared for each Project subcomponent as the Annex 2 shows.
The project audit was ensured starting with 1996, on annual bases. The audit specific
activity was ensured according to international accounting principles and rules by prestigious
companies like Coopers & Lybrand, Pricewaterhouse Coopers, Deloitte & Touche, and Arthur
Anderson.
4.    Procurement activity
Starting from the specific provision of the Loan Agreement and of the World Bank Staff
Appraisal Report, PCU prepared General and Specific Procurement Plans. Over the Project life,
goods, services and civil works in a total value of 62.9 USD have been procured, as shown in
the Figs 4.
Fig. 4 Project spending by procurement methods
Procurement methods          No. of activities    Total value
-usd -
1.   International Competitive          15                 17.7
Bidding
2.    National Competitive Bidding       20                32.7
3.    Cost Quality Based Selection       6                 6.9
4.    International Shopping             12                0.7
5.    National Shopping                 81                 0.9
6.    Least Cost Selection               7                 0.07
7.    Selection Based on                23                 0.4
Consultants' Qualifications
8.    Individual Contracts               5                 0.1
9.    Direct contracting                 2                 0.6
10.   Operation Cost                    54                 2.8
Total                           62.9
5. Preparation of the project amendments
Over the Project life, the PCU prepared 6 project amendments approved by the World Bank
and the Romanian Government, as follows:
- 65 -



Amendment    Amendment Date             Amendment content
No.        The date when the
Govemment Order was
Issued in Monitorul
Oficial'
1         03.18.1998    *    reallocation of half of funds - annex 1
2          05.19.2000   *     extension of the Project 'Closing date'
until September 30, 2001
3          12.20.2000   *     a new part A8 (rural pilot) was added
*     amendment of the procurement methods
ceilings
*     reallocation of funds - annex 1
*     amendment of the section II
4          11.27.2001   *     extension of the Project 'Closing Date'
until February 28, 2002
5          07.19.2001   *     amendment of the procurement methods
ceilings
6          02.21.2002    *    reallocation of funds - annex 1
6.    Reports preparation
According to the provisions of the Loan Agreement, starting with March 1995, the PCU
prepared semestrial report (March 31 and September 30) reflecting the implementation
progress and the main issues and barriers which generated by the legislation aspects or
related to the quality of financial control. Financial or staffing issues were also mentioned.
The reports have been delivered to the World Bank, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of
Education.
Apart of the semestrial reports, the PCU prepared partial reports answering the requests of
the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance, Romanian Government, Court of Audit, The
World Bank, etc..
7.    Strengthening the co-operation with non-governmental organizations
In order to support the implementation of the reform measures the Ministry of Education
and Research has encouraged the initiatives of the non-governmental organizations, which
are in line with its education policy. In this respect, important agreements have been signed
with the Center Education 2000+, Marconi and EOS foundations, with TEMIR and
Step-by-Step projects, etc. to recognize the training activity they organize at the local and
school levels.
Notes:
During 1995-1997, EDUPLUS from Canada, ensured the Technical Assistance for the project
management.
The project was coordinated by eight Secretaries of State: Sorin Ionescu, Romulus Pop, Florin
Diaconescu, Mihai Gorcea, Floare Comsa, Corneliu Mircea Fronescu, Vasile Molan,
Constantin Corega.
1.9 Lessons learned
1.    Correctness of the project goals
All recent research studies have a common point in stressing that a large majority of
specialists in education, teachers, even parents agree with the main goals and strands of the
reform project. Everybody can easily observe that those students who have the chance to be
- 66 -



exposed to an education environment tailored according to the new education paradigms
highly appreciate it.
Thus, any future evolutions in the Romanian education should consider these goals
which created strong premises for connecting Romania to the values and principles of an
open society. Acting according to the project goals as defined in 1993, Romania is closer to
the Euro-Atlantic integration.
2.    The need of continuity in reform
Over seven years of implementation effort, the Ministry of Education succeed to
successfully implement the Education Reform Project 3724-RO: all the project objectives have
been achieved, and the loan funds have been disbursed 100% in due time. In addition, the
project represented a good opportunity for the Ministry of Education to address further needs
in disadvantaged areas and to pilot a new project (Rural Education Development). Apparently,
the recently closed education project can be an example of good practice both for the
Romanian Government and for the World Bank.
However, the success will be real only if the closing of the actual project will not be the
end of reform story in Romania. In other terms the following years should consolidate what
was done so far, should make all reform initiatives, mechanisms and bodies sustainable.
3.    The need for a large agreement on the reform stages
Especially in the last four years, there was a lot of criticism in different political and
professional bodies, but aisc in the media regarding the pace of the reform. The source of the
criticism was the accelerated rhythm of reform specific for the years 1998-2000 when radical
changes were introduced not only in curriculum, assessment, textbooks and management
and but also in the role of teachers and students. There was not enough time either for
explaining the details of the reform or for delivering adequate training programs for the
teachers in the system.
This risk of top-down sort of reforms like the Romanian one could be very much diminished
if a large political consensus on the goals and stages of the reform would be reached.
4.    Balance between top-down and bottom-up approaches
The Education reform was a classical top-down reform project: the goals and the main
activities were determined by the Ministry of Education and World Bank experts, the
implementation was coordinated by national bodies selected and appointed by the Ministry,
the single source of funds was also the Ministry through its specialized structures, the goods
and services were centrally procured. There was very little room for local initiatives, or for
differentiated strategies. The main outcomes was a radical change in the educational
paradigms, and it was very important for a country in transition like Romania.
Such a top-down approach pays less attention to the real classroom activity. It cannot
consider specific needs of very many schools working in different economical, geographical or
social environments. Any new reform initiative should ensure a balance between the
'top-down' and 'bottom-up' approaches allowing local initiatives and making the teaching staff
and (mainly) the head masters responsible for the quality of delivered education.
5.    Crucial role of teacher training strategies
Any new reform project should have teachers and head teachers training among its main
objectives. If the impact of the recently completed project was limited, if a part of the teaching
staff had difficulties in 'digesting' the reform measures, it was because of the poorness- of the
training programs. Implementation of the new curriculum, operating with new concepts,
using new assessment methods, choosing textbooks was a too difficult exercise for many
teachers who were not adequately trained. The new role of the teacher in classroom -
manager of the learning activity was not properly assumed by the same category of teachers.
Thus, ensuring a large access to training programs is not only a professional but also a moral
obligation in the near future. Under these circumstances, the sustainability of the reform
- 67 -



measures both in pre-service and in-service teacher training become crucial for the success of
any further reform programs.
6.    Motivation of the local expertise
One of the most important achievements of the project was identification and training of a
group of top-experts in different key education areas. Due to certain unclear provisions of the
financial legislation it was impossible to adequately reward their activity. Worst than that, the
PCU was able to hire additional financial or procurement specialists because of the same
reason. Also it was discussed in many circumstances, even for the PCU members there was
no solution to ensure decent salaries, according to their competencies and responsibilities.
Using under paid staff represents a great risk for the successful implementation of any
project.
7.    Communication strategy
A major issue for the education reform project was the lack of a communication strategy.
The Project preparation and implementation was considered as a matter of the education
specialists. Even thousands of people were involved in different project components this was
not enough from the public awareness point of view. For a long time the reform process didn't
receive any support from the student's parents, relatives, local authorities, or from the civil
society. Even for a significant part of the political environment the 'stake' of education reform
was not obvious.
l'his issue was addressed in 1997, during the Mid-Term Review, when approx. 500,000
USD were allocated for publicity. After 1997, explaining the reform measures became one of
the Ministry of Education's priorities. Reviews, brochures, and leaflets have been published
under curriculum, assessment, teacher training and management Project sub-components to
support the teachers' efforts to implement the education reform measures. National and local
TV and radio broadcasts have organized talk shows, round tables, etc. debating different
aspects of the new school life. However, a systematic communication strategy still missed,
which represent a significant risk for a project aiming to change a large and, generally,
conservative system which is education.
- 68 -



2. Financial statememt
2.1 Disbursement
Between project Effectiveness Date (October 24, 1994) and the project Closing Date
(February 28, 2002), the Ministry of Education succeed to use for the implementation of the
Project activities, $50,000,000, 100% of the Loan. The funds disbursement was completed in
June 28, 2002, February 28 - June 28, 2002 representing the grace period when the PCU has
been allowed to make payment for amounts contracted until the 28th of February.
The yearly rate of disbursement is the following:
Fig. SA Annual Disbursement IRate
Year                         Disbursed amount
- usd -
1995                            587,526.00
1996                           1,328,332.00
1997   _      __               7,356.707.00
1998                           8,900,121.00
1999                           6,219,001.00
2000                           3,037,422.00
2001                           13,131,692.00
2002                           9,435,824.00
Teotall          50,000,000.00
Fig. 5B AnnuaG Dosbkumrement Rate
14
12'
01995
10                           E11996
8                                                       D 1997
01998
6                                                       .1 1999
4.                                                      02000
22001
2 -                                                     0 *-l l  * .   AS.l .iS i_.1  1  1 ,_  n 2002
- 69 -



4%  3% 3%  8%
2O^i )_! 
Fig. 6A Disbursement           '
by componens
17&     ' 
* Cuniculum                  * Teacher Training
E3 Assessment & Examination  El Textbooks
* Finance & Management       O Rural pilot
* COSA                       i PCU
Fig. 6B Disbursement by components
Project component              Actual payments from the loan
proceeds
- usd -
1. Curriculum development                        1,420,154
2. Teacher Training                              4,006,958
3. Assessment and Examination                    4,244,430
4. Textbooks                                     18,545,795
5. Finance and Management                        8,381,239
6. Rural pilot                                   9,916,985
7. COSA                                          2,009,980
8. Project Coordination Unit                     1,384,459
- 70 -



Fig. 7A Disbursement by Category of Expenditure
2  Goods
* Consultant
20- f                              ,         ,- . ^.;,  Services
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   0   O peration
J .  ,  '_ cots
Fig. 7B Disbursement by Categories of expenditures
Category                            Value
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~- U SD   -
1. Goods                                      38,191,581
2. Consultants Services                        10,132,204
3. Operating Costs                             1,676,215
Total             50,000,000
The contribution of the Romanian Government
The total contribution of the Romanian Government to the Project financing was 12.9
million USD. It was focused mainly on textbook development, as the fig. 8 shows.
- 71 -



Fig. 8 The Contribution of the Romanian Government
Project component               Appraisal    Actual estimate
estimate
I.    Raising quality of basic and         23.5            12.3
secondary education
A. Curriculum                         0.1             0.1
B. Teacher Training                   0.2             0.1
C. Assessment and Examination         4.0             0.7
D. Occupational Standards             0.1              0
E. Textbooks                          19.1            9.8
G. Rural (pilot)*                                     1.6
II.   Improving education financing and      0              0.6
management
A. Resource Allocation, Management     -              0.5
and Finance                                      _
B. Coordination and Implementation     -              0.1
Total      23.5            12.9
The difference 10.5 million USD between the initial estimation of the local contribution
can be explained as follows:
a.    5.9 million USD allocated for printing of high school textbooks (The world Bank's Staff
Appraisal Report, Washington 1994, p. 80) were not used because this category of books was
not printed at all from the Ministry of Education budget (According to the Education Act 1995,
only the compulsory education is entitled to receive free of charge textbooks).;
b.   the unit cost of printed textbooks was smaller that the estimated one (see. point 2.2);
c.    the amount allocated for overheads was overestimated.
2.2 Efficiency of funds spending
The procurement activity was efficiently organized by the PCU, the unit cost obtained for
different procured items being substantially less than the estimated ones.
Examples
1. The cost of computers and related equipment
Over the Project life (1995-2001) the PCU procured 5,068 PCs and related equipment in a
value of 9.1 million USD. The average unit price was 1,795.58 USD/unit, representing
25.65% from the estimated unit price (7,000 USD/unit).
- 72 -



2.     The cost of textbooks (see annex 3)
Grade                   Estimated cost         Real cost
(The World Bank Staff  (The textbooks for minorities
Appraisal Report,  and foreign languages are
Washington 1994, p. 79-80)  included).
-USD -              -USD -
0,81
II                            T                0.82
III          :                                  0.97
IV                                              0.95
Average unit cost for primary education      1.2                 0.92
V                                               1.36
VI                                              1.37
VII                                             1.01
VIII                 __________________         0.95
Average unit cost for lower secondary        1.5                 1.15
If the same number of textbooks would be printed, the real lower unit costs would lead to
a economy of:
*      1,951.457 USD at primary educatiorn, and
*      5,877,685 USD at lower secondary education.
These economies allowed the Ministry of Education to reallocate significant amounts
towards a new component (rural pilot) or to procure much more PCs than initially expected.
- 73 -



3. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank and
other partners
3.1 Performances of the World Bank
The relationships between the Romanian Government and the World Bank, the main
project donor, were based on the provisions of three official documents:
*     The Loan Agreement regarding the education reform project, (approved in October 24,
1994),
*     The Project Operating Manual, and
*     The World Banks' Staff Appraisal Report.
These papers are establishing the negotiated project objectives, the activities to be
implemented and the financial allocations, the main rules and procedures to be used during
the implementation process, and the evaluation and monitoring methods and tools.
According to the above mentioned documents, the World Bank supported the Ministry of
Education implementation effort in two manners.
A. A day-by-day implementation support
Between the Project task-managers (there were three project task-managers: Mrs. Terrice
Bassler, Mr. Anthony C. Wheeler and Mrs. Ana Maria Sandi), other Bank specialists
(especially those on procurement area) and the PCU staff there was a permanent and direct
line of (email) communication. The coordinators of the Project sub-components were also in a
permanent contact with various Bank consultants. A special merit for the final success of
different project activities had the Bank's consultants on curriculum, assessment and
examination and textbooks (Mrs. Johanna Crighton and Mr. Phillip Cohen), who offered their
competent advise over the whole project life.
The World Bank's Resident Mission staff (especially Mrs. Ana Maria Sandi) attended on a
permanent basis the weekly meetings of the Project Steering Committee offering technical
support, carefully monitoring the implementation progress, and giving professional advise on
adjusting the project activities and timetables. Different Resident Mission specialists on
disbursement also promptly and competently answered to any of the PCU requests. Updated
Bank's implementation guides or procurement documents or other relevant information were
given every time when necessary.
B. Periodical supervision missions
Twice a year, the World Bank organized supervision missions including meeting with the
leadership of the Ministry of Education, the Steering Committee members, social partners,
other donors, but also field trips all over the country. Very many people were invited to share
their opinion on the project impact starting with high level authorities and including very
many teachers, head teachers and students. The supervision missions were good
opportunities for collecting general and specific information, to 'measure' the public
awareness or the level of satisfaction of the reform beneficiaries.
The (good and bad) conclusions and recommendations were mentioned in comprehensive
aide-memoires which were useful tools in hands of the project and components coordinators
for guiding the implementation activity.
C. Support for professional development
The Bank gave active support for the professional development of the experts included in
the project implementation or for the Ministry of Education staff. They were encouraged to
- 74 -



attend regular Bank training courses or courses organized by prestigious training
institutions. Representative of the Romanian Ministry of Education were invited to participate
to share experience with colleagues from countries all over the world where successful
education reform projects were implemented.
3.2 Performances of other donors
The Romanian ambitious education reform project attracted the interest of various
donors, which granted the Ministry of Education with additional funds either facilitating the
implementation of the project components, or initiating complementary activities. The main
other donors are the follows:
1.    The British Government Know-How Fund
In 1997, the British Government granted the Ministry of Education with approx. 800,000
USD, aiming to finance the Technical Assistance for the Management and Finance component
of the Project. To fulfill this task, The British Government and the Romanian Ministry of
Education selected a consultant company specialized in education management, namely the
Center for British Teachers (CJBT). In various circumstances the Ministry of Education
expressed its satisfaction for the strong in-put of CJBT in the Romanian edfucation
management. Its main areas of achievement were:
*     development, piloting and implementation of a new inspection model based on quality
assurance principles;
*     redefining the role of school manager in the Romanian education context;
*     training and accreditation of national trainers for headteachers and inspectors.
Due to lack of national legislation, CJBT was less successful on the development of
financing formula. Understanding the vital role of such a formula for the construction of
efficient, flexible and fair financing mechanisms, in 2001, the British Government decided to
continue to support the reform effort in this area approving another grant.
2.    The Soros Open Network (SON) Foundation
Promoting the principles of the open society and understanding the crucial role of the
school in shaping the future, SON started to offer non reimbursable funds (1995) to support
training activities for managers and teachers and the textbooks development process.
A fruitful co-operation was established between the Ministry of Education and different
SON members' foundations, especially Education 2000+. Based on the agreements signed in
2000-2002 the Education 2000+ launched complementary educational programs focusing on
school development (The Education 2000+ program) or on innovative didactic strategies for
History, Romanian Languages and Math and Sciences (the Summer School). Their 'grass-root'
initiatives balanced the 'top-down' approach promoted by the Ministry of Education.
- 75 -



4. Annexes
- 76 -



l ~~~~~~~~~-            -   .J,I,P4flQRW  ddd-  t-le~~hk sc v'
'       .  ~~~~~~~~~~welu iii ,t,UWI  di',#  IuAlDmsm } IliJ
_~~~~~~~~~~                    U .                         .
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wo'              . .qia              uqmspki  WesJ , WF 'F
.r B  : .  ~  *;,,,,_,;,  ,   ;.                           .  __
. ,,,, j,_,;  . _ _,, ,,,*   -_        _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
.)--....--...... f- -....... -........... . . 
_.___~'I Uwuu,J8 ,v-*i4 dw _ 
I ~ ~ ~  ~  I ~              .......... NV4      t   * 
4  '     .          wuw  snwisswn "#t             _-    Z*i-,.



I 7W j _p 1, Ca I 'AM 1 4 ,vlh
~~~~~~~~~'iW.-. .                 ..              .:                 'I3. 
C4~~IIhImbuf~~~EfM haiAAM  OIww
u..laambas . .i *mu i  Uru
!~~~~~~~~tfFI            I-  A   *  T h  gb1 iinf  .._    _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
_   ~~D*d4-  'o:l #zan.s E   '*, ,  h1. 0  
~t 4 t u iIfoS   Q.JS  n11 ALO2_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
171b 4 ThCb  h4IA
_ ~ ~ ~~~~~*1            u* o5=eu                                   - -1;
' ~           lbr9 D1iImE  Eu9ab  Mii )45J  P1 l 
.11;  "  IYzwo .i ih lql .iudLiAT  W#  A4  i ii   _______________
It' ~~/  Dr&win~sWTrmqqlaft vwtn  $, rw  W4  RiiOIiNm  JmiJftm----
_     Tr;b&NMia .4A           PAMAO \,S  # 0z rgA            a   _   i 
,p in ccD. id F nai c_                                 . .ALih   IiLIUO
Ss, t   w4zakivmswrlvilitr  a jb  M a   r   )~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ = ------ ------
11  .'  T  w e fl'         * 'JU   hI42 IA  SI l t f   _ _ _ _ _ _ __.,,,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
lUub  851dDl.IU  RI2LWDI  - _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ ,_ __ _
r ,,, lJnWWwsoTY 'bwb 92DsW ^pt ^ __t Wlllllll rl,l ; ............................... i {~~~~~~~~~~



EI ti E'I'iiri f
:                  <1
I~~~~~# , ,i .i, i.:
,.,....,... ;.... ... ,. i  .....,.e:,
79I -_____n_*r
- 79 -



r~~~~~UI  t Xf C  fu===
4P   _                       P Tq Ut
'.*  .'_Y  ;,v"_  -  : ~
_1 _                       _______._____         _   _   _
.  ________________________  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



|~~~~ 1 2 'M   w }    tt.           Sti
& ir AStX 1- p*- * <...,.....    ..........
-81 -



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f Ib
w b:Ssr,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
bes  wt S;v wb*- l-s c7:jI 
;St S>: F  <W lIIII 
:41                  ~~~~~~~~I;* [i
ibi 4            ,                  i 
1I                               Ii.



Ulu" of
-   3011R-2t101 ~~21 Q  1 304 II2STL"4' [     F1ICVV
r~   Ihv1Ia, 1                                          02 r1 Ma04
-                         L V
t$  -  DvqpI_1~  -          - iU   .S  -  l  ..  r3                    _________.
4t>* )J,,u       ^           u.m siM  ;,       ab      mmmit       '. 4-W  _______; *
-               i             it uSa  .;F,.,..4- .*t-'|l
14i  .ttS_4at)     S    gd_  .,flu  -~                                          -i9 sT 
.    1 i !S TA                              ________ ,_ ______    ]  y   ,   ^   j
T A                     1|l U>Mat _L(* -,on
TN i~~~~~



_ @ o* z 1 s 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~-rw         s   Q+  1  2 0 ^1!.ta I JMM   1  QZ  ~Iq   I  Ic  -Q  Q4  0
S;      7     .      R     u      wdj smobltt 4 ., i I
t;~~Pomw of mowp        ;W0DO               3 X 0w ,__
8~~~S     tIi *~               O*  X  5Sh8,  M 1S A;* - 
ffi  <-   . < . T ~ b "   ~ *  > X   s>IU41    .__ __ _ __ _ __ _
~~~~~~w-     a I T a 4; , v a  >
C13Wi  MGZsOM  FVId_2 t{
In' %f TwimQIAU TN 1Lmm=



do
::   :  <,   ,  .   - :-.  ':  t#X4Xt4 **" *41'  ftkt.. 40(
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~m ,aw _p-9
~~~~~~ I~~~~~~~IK
' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ e~~ '3  .a t!X~ '.
,          -         -rqt~   n ,~oI  ~ ~ ~ IIC~ 
*  -*    ii   S  : W   t.f  qm*j,  SA?p J
_ _ . ~~~~
t. * t.7mltuu .~~rnz Ss&  iwmc4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _._ _ _ . _ _ _  u, x i w



ANNEX 2
Summary Sheet                                              Financial aspect (in 000's $ US)
Disbursements
BM                   GVT       Total
Semester Cumulative Cumulative Budget
New Curriculum Development                               52.18      1420.14      199.58   1619.73
Teacher training                                        416.65      4006.96       28.23   4035.19
Assessment & Examinations                                39.96      4244.43      687.72     4932
Occupational standards & Assessment                       2.26      2099.99        9.89   2109.88
Textbooks                                                   0      18545.79     9887.82  28433.61
Education Financing                                    3045.59      8381.24      478.83   8860.07
Reform coordination and Implementation                    37.2      1384.46      110.75   1495.21
Rural Development                                       478.78      9916.99     1556.22  11473.21
TOTAL                                                 4072.62        50000    12959.04   62958.9
Financial aspect (in 000's $ US)
Disbursements      I
BM              I GVT      |TOTAL
Task Name                      SemesterlCumulativ4Cumulativej Budget
Curriculum Development                      52.181    1420.151    199.581 1619.73
1           Print grade X/XI/XII curImculum     28.58
2           Training abroad                     99.75
3           Print science curricula            230.27
4           Training on the new curricula      381.16
5           Training (CTB & WG membres)        398.66
6           Impact study                        46.59
7           Guidelines to implement  52.18      57.77
8           Up-grade equipment                 151.32
9           Office furniture                     13.29
10           Materiales                          12.76
Table 1
- 86 -



Financial aspect (in 000's $ US)
Disbursements      I
BM              I GVT       ITOTAL
Task Name                       Semester Cumulativ Cumulativ; Budget
Teacher Training                             416.65    4006.96        28.23   4035.19
I           Monitoring, evaluation, 1  363.59   2132.32
2           Printing materials         6.77       37.36
3           Materials                              3.79
4           Training (NTTB staff)                   0.6
5           Equip all CCDs and pilo   46.29     1811.57
6           Local assistences                     21.32
Table 2
Financial aspect (in 000's $ US)
Disbursements          I
BM             I GVT       jTOTAL
Task Name                         Semester   |Cumulativ4Cumulativj Budget
Assessment and examination                            0    4244.43      687.72      4932
2           Preparation and distribution of BAC exam  478.44
3           Preparation, printing & dissemination of a  301
4           Running national assessments (grade IV)   17.88
5           Training int conferences                  28.23
7           Equipment (NAES)                         875.33
8           Vehicles                                  37.78
10           Security system for NAES building           0.2
11           TA contract                              607.06
12           Equipment & training for building local cE  1603.09
13           Local trainig                            160.18
1 5          Staff training                           135.24
Table 3
Financial aspect (in 000's $ US)
Disbursements
BM              I GVT       TOTAL
Task Name                       Semester Cumulativ4Cumulativd Budget
Textbooks                                          0   18545.79     9887.82   28433.6
I           Textbooks for Grade I/VlII         17561.23
2           Seminar/preparation of textb.Selectio  2.34
3           Equipment                             26.39
4           International consultants            945.08
5           Materials                             10.75
Table 4
- 87 -



Disburseme;nts       II
BM             I     GVT     |TOTAL|
Task Name                       Semester |Cumulativ Cumulative     Bud et
Education Management and Financing                    3045.59    8381.24      478.83  8860.07
I          TA for financial formulae (foreign & local)      114.4
2           Formulae testing                                63.25
3           Three regional workshops on financial system    68.06
4           Three regional workshops on EMIS & DIA         1166.92
5           Equipments                         3045.59    5989.73
6           Print training guides for principals            53.09
7           Train 1500 school principals (incl. Rural)     895.23
8           Training abroad                                   1.5
9           Vehicules                                        3.44
10          Materials                                        25.62
Table 5
Financial aspect (in 000's $ US)
Disbursements     I
BM             I GVT |TOTAL
Task Name                     Semester ICumulativerumulativA   Budget
Occupational Standards                       2.26    2099.99       9.89  2109.88
1           Equipment                          445.87
2           Publicity                           31.23
3           Printing materials                   2.26
4           Materials                2.26       11.41
5           Seminars (5)                          8.6
6           TA assistence (DEET)              1600.62
Table 6
Financial aspect (in 000's $ US)
Disbursements      I
BM             I GVT TTOTAL
Task Name                     Semester CumulativjCumulativj Budget
Rural development                         478.78     9916.99       1556     11472
I          Materials                            2.72
2           Booklets                  1.29     500.72
3           Equipment                         3376.17
4           Procurement of Teching  341.16    4010.35
5           Impact study                        27.03
6           School Furniture       136.33       2000
Table 7
- 88 -



Financial aspect (in 000's $ US)
Disbursements
BM             I GVT       ITOTAL
Task Name                      Semester numulativtumulativ       Budget
Project Coordination Unit                      37.2   1384.46      110.75   1495.21
I               Select the auditor for 1995 - 1999   24.04
2               Select the auditor for 2000          14.74
3               Select the auditor for 2001           7.51
4               Sect the auditor for 2002  10.58      10.58
5               Project management assis            437.48
6               Promotion of Project act   8.25     467.99
7               Equipment                  5.04     105.81
8               Vehicules                             4.22
9               Training staff                      209.62
10               Materials                            45.32
11               Printing materials        13.33      35.82
12               Local assistences                    21.33
Table 8
- 89 -



ANNEX 3
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT 1995-2001
Grade               Total Quantity   Total Value   Total Value  Unit Price  Unit Price
(copies)        (lei)          ($)        (lei)     ($)
Grade 1                 566,736.00  9,260,986,639.90  383,176.24  16,340.92   0.68
Grade II (Bid 1)       1,304,034.00  4,600,390,129.89  1,038,412.00  3,527.81  0.80
Grade III              2,143,063.00  20,599,386,687.25 2,041,698.74  9,612.12  0.95
Grade IV              2,868,561.00  30,482,589,813.80 2,773,546.68  10,626.44  0.97
TOTAL I - IV:          6,882,394.00  64,943,353,270.84 6,236,833.66
Average Unit Price I-IV                                          9,436.16     0.91
Grade V                3,526,816.00  59,987,425,487.90 4,770,644.87  17,008.95  1.35
Grade VI               3,910,248.00  71,191,641,231.80  5,356,143.91  18,206.43  1.37
Grade VIl             4,520,093.00  86,973,910,880.00 4,550,014.37  19,241.62  1.01
Grade Vill            4,827,804.00 115,572,447,071.00  4,587,622.21  23,938.93  0.95
TOTAL V - Vill:       16,784,961.00 333,725,424,670.70 19,264,425.36
Average Unit Price V-VIIl:                                      19,882.41      1.15
TOTAL I - VIII:    T 23,667,355.001 398,668,777,941.54 25,501,259.02
Average Unit Price I-VIII:                                      16,844.67     1.08
Note: The Borrower's Evaluation Report (received as a hard copy) also includes an additional annex
on Textbooks Development with details related to all bids for textbooks development; due to technical
reasons it could not be attached to this document.
- 90 -


















IMAGING
Report No.:        24553
Type:     ICR



