Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 26225
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
ROMANIA
Education Reform Project (Loan 3724-RO)
Reform of Higher Education and Research Project (Loan 4096-RO)
June 18, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Current Unit = Romanian Lei
Exchange rate effective June 15, 2002
I Leu = US$ 0.0000332
US$ 1 =Lei 33,150
Current Unit = Romanian Leu
Exchange rate effective January 20, 2003
1 Leu = US$ 0.0000296
US$1 = Lei 33,735
Abbreviations and Acronyms
GDP           Gross domestic product
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
LIL           Learning and Innovation Lending
MIS           Management Information System
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PPAR*         Project Performance Assessment Report
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
TVET          Technical and vocational education and training
UNESCO        United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
* As of July 1, 2001, Project Performance Audits have been renamed Project Performance Assessments
Fiscal Year
Government:          July I - June 30
Director-General, Operations Evaluation          : Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Departnent   Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation          : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                        Ms. Helen Abadzi



i
OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings .....................................................v
Preface .................................................... .                                             vii
Summary .....................................................                                               ix
1.  Background .....................................................1
2.   Objectives and Implementation of the Assessed Projects ........................................2
Education Reform       Project: Highlights .....................................................3
Higher Education Project: Highlights .....................................................6
3.   Ratings .....................................................9
Institutional Development Impact .....................................................9
Sustainability ....................................................                                10
Bank Performance ....................................................                              10
Borrower Performance ....................................................                          10
4.   Issues for Future Consideration ....................................................                   11
Low    Teacher Salaries Inhibit Reform ....................................................        11
Students are Tracked too Early ....................................................                12
Lessons ....................................................                                       12
Annex A. Project Activities ....................................................                            15
Annex B. Basic Data ....................................................                                    21
Romania Education Reform           Project (Loan 3724) ................................................. 21
Higher Education Project (Loan 4096) ....................................................          25
Tables
Table 1. Changes in Student Enrollments during Project Implementation .........................2
Table 2. Pass Rates of the Grade 8 'Capacitate' Examination ...........................................5
Table 3. Pass Rates of the Grade 12 'Baccalaureate' Examination ....................................6
Table 4. Grants Financed by the Higher Education Reform                  Project .................. ................7
This report was prepared by Helen Abadzi, who assessed the project in December 2002. The report was
edited by William B. Hurlbut, and Pilar Barquero provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
ICR*                        ES*                       PPAR
Education Reform Project (Loan 3724-RO)
Outcome                  Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Sustainability              Likely                     Likely                     Likely
Institutional               High                       High                       High
Development
Bank                     Satisfactory               Satisfactory            Highly Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                 Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Performance
Reform of Higher Education and Research Project (Loan 4096 - RO)
Outcome                  Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Sustainability              Likely                     Likely                     Likely
Institutional               High                       High                        High
Development
Bank                     Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                 Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank. The
Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Project                 Task Manager/Leader         Division Chief!      Country Director
Sector Director
Education Reformn Project (Loan 3724-RO)
Appraisal                     Terrice Basler              Ralph W. Harbison      Michael H. Wiehen
Completion                    Ana Maria Sandi             Ernesto P. Cuadra      Andrew N. Vorkink
Reforn of Higher Education and Research Project (Loan 4096 - RO)
Appraisal                      Maurice Boissiere          Ralph W. Harbison      Kenneth G. Lay
Completion                    Ana Maria Sandi             Maureen McLaughlin     Andrew N. Vorkink






vii
Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers the two completed education
projects in Romania:
*  Education Reform Project (Loan 3724-RO) for US$50 million, which was approved on
April 5, 1994. After extensions totaling two years, the loan was fully disbursed, and it
closed on February 28, 2002.
* Reform of Higher Education and Research Project (Loan 4096-RO) for US$50
million equivalent, which was approved on 9/19/1996. After an extension of three
months, the loan closed on September 30, 2002. An undisbursed balance of US$400,000
was canceled.
This is this the first set of OED assessments in the education sector to be carried out in a
transitional economy. The assessments were conducted to study the effectiveness of Bank
strategy in transitional economies, and understand the factors that brought about successfully a
large-scale reform in educational system.
The PPAR is based on the following sources: Project or Implementation Completion Reports
(ICRs), Staff Appraisal Reports (SARs), Loan Agreements for the projects, and project files,
particularly the supervision reports. An OED mission visited Romania in December 2002 to
collect other pertinent information. The author thanks the government officials who received the
mission for their extensive cooperation.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for their review and comments but none were received.






ix
Summary
The Romania Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on two education projects
in Romania: (a) Education Reform Project (Loan 3724-RO) for US$50 million was approved
on April 5, 1994. After extensions totaling two years, the loan was fully disbursed, and it closed
on February 28, 2002; and (b) Reform ofHigher Education and Research Project (Loan 4096-
RO) for US$50 million equivalent, was approved on 9/19/1996. After an extension of three
months, the loan closed on September 30, 2002. An undisbursed balance of US$400,000 was
canceled.
The Education Reform Project aimed to: (a) update and improve quality of basic and
secondary education and (b) develop and introduce measures that will increase efficiency in the
management of public resources for education. It financed textbooks and supplementary
materials, equipment, computer hardware and software, technical assistance, external and local
training, preparation of studies, and non-salary operating costs. The Reform of Higher
Education and Research Project was to improve: (a) the responsiveness of the system to the
demands for new professional and managerial skills required by a market economy; (b) resource
allocation to generate incentives for more efficient performance; and (c) access to higher
education with increased equity for talented but needy students. The project awarded 937 grants
for research and for development of new specialties in degree and non-degree programs,
including the masters doctorate degrees.
The human resource development strategy for Romania was relevant to the country's
economic needs, and the objectives of the projects have been relevant to the human resource
development needs of the country. Though the process is still going on, the investments helped
the govemment provide students with information necessary to leam skills needed in post-
transition economy labor market. The projects met or exceeded almost all their objectives and
subobjectives.
For both projects, outcome is rated satisfactory. Institutional development is rated high,
and sustainability as likely. Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory for the Education
Reform Project and satisfactory for the Higher Education Project. Borrower performance for
both projects is rated satisfactory. The Bank has helped the govemment to carry out its clearly
planned strategies and helped promote efficiency in the implementation of reform-oriented
programs.
Lessons
Experience with the projects confirms a number of OED lessons from education projects:
* Projects that focus on comprehensive reform can be successful in countries that have
capacity and determination. When ministries collaborate effectively and borrower
staff are committed to the reform process, projects that involve multiple ministries
may be effectively implemented.
* Comprehensive, complex and demanding reforms can work well if initiated through
respected national institutions, particularly if the goals of the reform are clearly
explained to the public.



x
* Rigid procurement and disbursement requirements imposed on smaller institutions
(such as schools) or individuals who receive grant funds may adversely impact their
ability to implement their projects. Special efforts may be required to limit the
paperwork and deadline obligations that grant recipients face.
* Small grants (e.g., for stipends or for research) often have a portion contributed by
the government, since the Bank finances only a percentage. Government delays in
paying counterpart funds disrupt important educational activities of individuals.
Broader procurement planning may be needed to ascertain that a shortfall or delay
will not disrupt crucial activities.
Gregory K. Ingram
Director-General
Operations Evaluation



1.      Background
1.1     Since the 19* century, Romania (per capita income of US$1690)' has had cultural
traditions and links with countries such as France and Greece, and was making efforts to align its
educational system with those of western Europe before it experienced 45 years of communist
rule. The communist system in Romania succeeded in bringing about universal primary
education, channeling most students to vocational schools, bridging the gender gap, and
providing extensive education in minority languages. This regime emphasized schooling, and by
the 1970s the number of pupils in the secondary schools (lyceums) was ten times higher than in
the academic year 1938-1939; thus, in 1972-1973, enrollments in the 10-year primary and
secondary cycle were 91 percent, and a tradition of women mathematicians had developed. To
prevent political dissent, critical thinking and analysis in schools were discouraged. Textbooks,
exclusively produced by the Ministry of Education, transmitted the correct political ideology.
Students were expected merely to recall material, while teachers ascertained the recall of specific
items. Elaboration of information and use in application, analysis, synthesis, evaluation were de-
emphasized.2 (As a result, students have not performed as well as expected in international
comparisons.3) However, the system capacity was strained. The population boom that resulted
after abortion and family planning were forbidden in 1966/1967 meant that in 1978, the number
of students completing compulsory education had already risen to 526,923, up from 368,708 in
1966.4
1.2     Communist higher education discouraged liberal arts, so university faculties of
philosophy, psychology, and sociology were severely neglected. Only 4 percent of students were
in general secondary schools; most went to technically oriented lyceums such as those for
railroads, mathematics and physics, natural sciences. Emphasis at the university level was also
on technical preparation, so about 65 percent of the students were in engineering. Graduate
courses and masters degrees were not offered, and doctorates involved only a dissertation, with
research outside the university.5
1.3     After the 1989 revolution that unseated the socialist regime, the system suffered from the
abrupt decline in investment and expenditures as well as from the changing labor market needs
that have been common in transition economies. It is recovering, and private provision of
education is growing at all levels. The proportion of graduates who enter secondary education
(Table 1) rather than vocational education increased from 10 percent to over 50 percent in 1994;
1. World Bank operations data, www.worldbank.org.
2. Berryman, Sue. Hidden Challenges to Education Systems in Transition Economies. World Bank: Europe and South
Asia Region, 2000.
3. Third International Mathematics and Sciences Study (TIMMS), 1995/1996. Romanian students in grades 7 and 8
scored below average (31 st position in Sciences and 34th in Mathematics out of 42 countries included in the survey).
Over 80% had trouble dealing with transfer of knowledge, creative problem solving and relevance of theoretical
knowledge for everyday situations. Other studies point to overload in the curriculum, as well as to the false assumption
that 'condensed' and commonly "high" requirements in the curriculum constitute good teaching and learning
(Georgescu and Palade 2002).
4. Georgescu, Dakmara and Eugen Palade. Case Studies In Large-Scale Education Reformns: Romania. Shaping
Education According To The Values And Principles Of An Open Society 1990-2000 (Draft) Bucharest, 2002.
5. Fretwell, D. and Anthony Wheeler. Romania: Secondary Education and Training. World Bank: Secondary
Education Series. August 2001, report no. 22857.



2
but the universities, which mushroomed to 49 by 2000, lacked academic and financial
prerequisites for sustainable training roles in many sectors. The Bank-financed education
projects in Romania have constituted efforts to reform major parts of the education system.
1.4     The country is trying to catch up in all subsectors of education. National- and local-level
officials in Romania are oriented towards the future and the importance of aligning the country's
educational system to that of the European Union by 2007.
Table 1. Changes in Student Enrollments during Project Implementation
Student        1990-   1991-   1992-  1993-   1994-   1995-   1996-  1997-  1998-   1999-
Enrollment     1991    1992    1093    1994    1995   1996    1997    1998   1999   2000
In thousands
Schools         13.51   13.98   13.92  13 95   13.96  13.98    13.98  13.87  13.79   13.15
Total students  2730    2639    2572    2533    2532  2541     2546   2559   2556    2498
Totalprimary    1313    1241    1233    1251   1351   1391     1406   1373   1284    1189
school students
Totalsecondary  1417    1398    1339    1282    1181  1150      1140  1186   1272    1309
school students
Total pnmary      62      61      55     62      66     70       71     71     69      67
teachers
Total secondary  102      98     109     103     103    102      104    102   104     102
teachers
Source: Anuarul Statistic al RomRnici. Institutul Naponal de StatisticS ($coala la RAscruce, p. 43).
1.5     The Bank-financed education program started with an educational reform project in 1994,
a higher education project in 1996, and a schools rehabilitation project (Ln. 4213-RO for US$70
million) scheduled to be completed on January 31, 2003. A rural education project was appraised
in December 2002. Both projects benefited from parallel financing from the European Union and
European bilateral agencies.
2.      Objectives and Implementation of the Assessed Projects
2.1     The Education Reform Project (often referred to as the "pre-university project") was to
be implemented in five years in the country's 42 counties and bring about a complete reform of
the educational system in grades 1-12. It would finance textbooks and supplementary materials,
equipment, computer hardware and software, technical assistance, extemal and local training,
preparation of studies, and non-salary operating costs. Its objectives were to: (a) update and
improve quality of basic and secondary education by strengthening curriculum and teacher
training, assessment and examinations, and textbook quality; and (b) develop and introduce
measures that will increase efficiency in the management of public resources for education. In
1998, a rural education component was financed from cost savings to reinforce rural primary
schools in eight counties, and the project received an extension partly to carry out this component
(details in Annex A Table 1).
2.2     The Reform of Higher Education and Research Project (often referred to as the higher
education project) was a sector investment loan to improve: (a) the responsiveness of the system
to the demands for new professional and managerial skills required by a market economy; (b)



3
resource allocation to generate incentives for more efficient performance; and (c) access to higher
education with increased equity for talented but needy students. Specific objectives were to: (i)
improve the capacity of the recently formed higher education councils and the individual
institutions to fulfill their responsibilities in the reform strategy; (ii) develop the new
undergraduate and continuing education programs demanded by the transition to a market
economy; and (iii) develop the new postgraduate education and research training needed to
supply the next generation of academic staff in high demand fields of study, and the professionals
with advanced training in the new fields demanded by the transition to a market economy (details
in Annex A Table 2). The project awarded 937 grants for research and for development of new
specialties in degree and non-degree programs, including the masters doctorate degrees.
2.3    Project preparation and implementation had strong government support and unleashed
much activity. Working groups and councils were constituted, and dozens of people from around
the country participated in various teams. For the pre-university project, a group of innovatively
thinking staff members from the Institute of Educational Sciences took charge of the
instructionally related components and energetically carried them out. (Because of the
experience gained as a result, some of them later became consultants for the World Bank and
other development agencies) For the higher education project, councils for research and finance
developed formulas for a fair distribution of resources, forms for application and financial audits,
and monitored the implementation process.6 Borrower staff involved in the process have written
articles and reports about their experiences.' A sector study was done locally on the basis of
which the follow-on rural education project has been appraised.8
2.4    The sector has benefited from donor investment: The Soros Foundation finances the
Eduction 2000 nongovernmental organization (NGO), which supports reform efforts. European
Union project, Phare, supported the reform of vocational-technical education for 25m euros. The
Bank-financed School Rehabilitation Project received US$13.8 million from the Council of
Europe Development Bank. Universities have also received research grants financed by the
European Union.
Education Reform Project: Highlights
2.5    The project included components by the Ministries of Education as well as Labor, and the
Bank was concerned that the design might create an ineffective "Christmas tree" of multiple
uncoordinated components with little impact. However, the government insisted that they could
coordinate the work of two ministries.
2.6    Romanian civil servants were inexperienced in dealing with the Bank, and many
government rules conflicted with Bank procurement rules. The Bank offered procurement
courses to government staff and rules ultimately improved, but disbursement difficulties were
severe, consumed much energy and slowed down the project. The project coordination unit
(PCU) was not allowed to have a petty cash fund, and they could not hire as consultants any
persons working in the public sector, including professors. Despite these difficulties,
6. Information on details is available in the Implementation Completion Reports of both projects: Report No. 24553-
RO and 24554-RO.
7. E.g.Georgescu and Palade 2002. National Assessment and Examination Service, Romania. Four Position Papers on
Learning Assessment. Bucharest 2001.
8. Ministry of Education. Institut de Stiinte ale Educatiei Invatarnantul Rural din Romania. Condipi, Probleme, si
Stragegii de Desvoltare. 2002.



4
implementation started energetically, shepherded by a group of very active staff and an interested
Minister of Education. Large commissions were constituted to approve curricula and textbooks,
publishers and writers were invited to submit textbook outlines based on objective guidelines.
Initially commission meetings were large and not very productive, but eventually the members
learned to conduct business more efficiently. However, implementation slowed down in 1997,
due to a change in government and many MOE staff. The training and assessment components
were most affected, and by midterm review, the project remained largely undisbursed. During
midterm review, the project was reconfigured and a publicity fund of US$650,000 was added to
inform the public in greater detail about the reform.
2.7    Eventually, the project achieved most of its targets and fulfilled its main objectives
(Annex A, Table 1). Specifically,
*  New curricula were developed for all grades, formed on the basis of competencies
rather than lists of chapters to be learned. They were reflected in the textbooks
developed through the project.
*  Multiple textbooks were developed for every grade, and teachers were invited to
choose the set that best fit their students' needs. The books were given free for
students' use and were expected to last four years. (In actuality many parents buy
books so that their children can keep them. These are priced below cost, e.g.
US$0,80 rather than US$1.2.) About 40 publishers are now experienced in
producing textbooks.
*  Through local sources, schools received some instructional materials, notably a few
computers for office and student use. Local sources also offered furniture.9
*  A completely new examinations methodology was developed to conduct valid,
reliable, and vertically equated high-stakes examinations at the end of grades 8 and
12. The examinations council building was refurbished, all staff received extensive
training, and competent foreign technical assistance was effective in transferring
skills to task. Though schools do not yet receive specific feedback or comparison
with others, a culture of monitoring student is developing.
*  A management information system and school financing formula were developed to
finance schools and monitor enrollments. The project trained trainers and gave
extensive training to about 10,000 head teachers (out of about 50,000). A trainers'
association was set up as an NGO to develop professional competencies.
*  Through consultation with professional associations, vocational training standards
were established for about 300 occupations, which were to be used for a reform
vocational training.
2.8    Training (component of US$6.2 million) was to help restructure preservice and inservice
teacher training and develop the capacity of the county based training centers (Casa Corpului
Didactic) to transmit the methodology and philosophy of the reform and textbook use to the
9. Educational financing heavily depends on local govemments' revenue generation capacity. Though the state
supplements with equalization grants, the formula used is a function of tax revenues and cannot favor the poorest
regions. ( Romania: Building Institutions for Public Expenditure Management: Reforms, Efficiency, and Equity.
World Bank. Report no. 24756-RO, August 2002.



5
teachers. However, it remained the weakest point of the project, because activities started late.'°
Many activities remain optional. MOE staff and inspectors (who are often political appointees)
received limited training. Other means of inservice teacher training, such as university courses,
did not offer the teachers the skills needed. One problem is that many university staff do not
possess up-to-date knowledge on education. Also, inservice activities are often limited to
lectures, which are poor means for changing teaching behaviors. Partly as a result of limited
training, many of the older professors have been resistant to the instructional reform.
2.9    An impact evaluation studied various aspects of the project through beneficiary
perceptions and test scores." The study showed that the reform has made important inroads, but
that more needs to be done. Some conclusions were:
* On the average, only one of four teachers has assimilated the new curricular code
(probably as a result of limited training). About 25 percent of teachers are in favor,
about 50 percent are undecided, and about 25 percent do not favor it.
* Information items are still the main product of schools. Only about 10 percent of the
cognitive exercises offered to students have any link with practical life. The
prevailing resources are still textbook and notebook.
* Institutions in charge of pre- and inservice training are largely bastions of
conservatism. Staff may not be receptive to analysis of educational problems and
applications of novel solutions. (Pedagogical high schools and primary teacher
colleges are reportedly more receptive.) There are no clear institutional incentives to
promote further reform.
* There are no geographical or residential differences regarding access to the curricular
understanding. Schools were to have a 20 percent school based curriculum, but only
5 percent have done that.
* Alternative textbooks have worked out satisfactorily, but their utility is often
questioned.
* Test scores (Tables 2 and 3) show relatively high performance levels. However,
there is a certain lack of coherence between curricular and assessment reform. The
percentage of passing marks in the capacitate (8h grade) examination was not highly
correlated with contents of curricular changes. It appears deternined more by
socioeconomic factors rather than school inputs.
Table 2. Pass Rates of the Grade 8 'Capacitate' Examination
1999          2000         2001          2002
75.12%        77.55%        71.17%       77.16%
10. The government initially decided to use its own resources to finance teacher training activities. However it was
unable to do so during project implementation, and funds were reallocated to cover training needs as much as possible.
I l. Vlasceanu, Lazar et al. Scoala la R.scruce. Schimbare si continuitate in Curriculumul invalamantului Obligatoriu.
Bucharest: Polirom 2002 (p.888-890).



6
Table 3. Pass Rates of the Grade 12 'Baccalaureate' Examination
1994       1995       1996       1997      1998       1999    2000    2001
93.72%     95.25%     95.79%     93.66%    67.11%     70%     84.8     86.28
Note: Percentage of students passing examination out of total candidates in the respective session
2.10    Mission visits. The OED mission visited 14 periurban or rural primary and secondary
schools in the counties of Dumbovitsa, Craiova, Constantsa, Oltenitsa, and environs of
Bucharest.12 Schools were chosen on an incidental sampling basis. Heavy snowfall prevented
visits to more remote schools, and thus the schools visited were probably better than average.
Classes were observed and interviews were held with directors and groups of 7-10 teachers.
Mission visits verified that teacher training had been limited, and that teachers often lacked the
time and/or money to go to inservice training centers in their own free time. Teachers enunciated
the goals of the reform, but the extent to which they delivered classes so as to stimulate critical
thinking and integration of material was unclear. Of the approximately 52 classes observed, five
were engaged in such tasks. One example involved developing a CD with pictures of the various
Romanian coins and bills and relating historical facts about the persons depicted. (See Annex I
Table 3 for opinions of interviewed staff.) Others involved efforts to teach students multiple
languages.13 The most frequent concern stated by teachers was lack of instructional materials
besides textbooks.
Higher Education Project: Highlights
2.11    This sector investment loan was expected to foment competition in the higher education
subsector in order to improve overall university financing procedures as well as availability and
quality of neglected fields, such as economics and social sciences. 14 (See Annex A Table 2 for
details.) Government ownership was strong, and preparation greatly benefited from a Japanese
grant facility for preparation and needs assessment. A policy matrix was developed, which
constituted a set of expected changes that would happen in the system as a result of implementing
this project. This project was a learning process for the Bank and borrower. Aide memoirs
requested more emphasis on strategic plan concordance with universities, labor market demands,
appropriateness of budgets, animal experiment ethics. Nevertheless, the labor market estimations
for new programs were of variable quality, ranging from assumptions to concrete requests from
specific firms. Given the constant labor demand changes that take place in transition economies,
perhaps more could have been done to specify training needs.
2.12    The proposals submitted were first subjected to internal university reviews. The
university rectors who approved proposals internally also had to certify that the topics were
consistent with the university's strategic goals, whatever these were. Efforts were made to
12. These were: School no 3, Baloteste, Shool no. 1, Sitaru Gradista (multigrade), School no 2 Moara Vassiei, School
no 1, Tergoviste, School no. 2, Tergoviste, Cantacuzion school in Tergoviste, School no 3, Puchoasa, Lyceum no. 1,
Craiova, School no. 1, Curcani, Schoo. No 5, Oltenita, School no. 4 Oltenita, School no. 2 Calaras, School no. 1,
Manastira, Ovidiu University of Constanta laboratory school. The inspectorates of Dumbovitsa, Craiova, Oltenitsa,
and Constantsa were also visited.
13. Innovative ideas involved donating uniforms by students who graduated and stacking multigrade classes, so that
students in the four-hour school day would partly overlap into a total teacher day of six hours.
14. Romania has 49 public, 8 private accredited universities, and 5 institutions financed by the gonverment (e.g. for
police, army ctc); in 2001 1% of pre-university enrollments and 28% of university enrollments were in private
institutions (Fretwell and Wheeler, 2001.)



7
constitute objective committees to evaluate proposals at the national level, and rectors were asked
to nominate unpaid academics for these. Committee members scored proposals according to
evaluation criteria: effective use of budgets and resources, multiplicative effects, institutional
linkages, the extent to which the program responded to institutional development plans.
Proposals also had to involve students directly, stimulate creativity, contribute to the learning
process. '5 Committee members could also submit proposals, and they had to leave the room
when their or proposals of their universities' were discussed. Those who received awards had to
submit audit reports every six months. Researchers submitted completion forms, but project
outcomes were not evaluated directly.
2.13    Finance and research councils were constituted, and four rounds of grant proposal
submissions were made. Overall, 937 grants were given for various purposes (Table 4) 16
However, implementation suffered greatly from procurement and disbursement problems.
Fluctuation of exchange rates affected the special account. Its size proved too small for the
expenditures, and delays in audit reports or in accounting by grant recipients blocked its
replenishment, making it impossible for other researchers to receive money. Thirty percent of
grant amounts consisted of counterpart funds, which were disbursed on an irregular basis;
professors who had received awards did not know when they would receive the funds. At some
point they were notified that the funds were available, and then they had 60 days to disburse
them. This situation made it very difficult to canry out interlinked activities and to plan
reasonably for the various activities. Professors were not prepared for this level of bureaucracy,
which became very time-consuming. Unless the university had money to lend them, they could
not work. (Some universities did, but others could not.) The PCU had underestimated the ability
of universities of overcome these complexities. In addition, the EU-funded management
component had a separate implementation unit, a fact which created implementation delays in a
component that should have disbursed first. On the positive side, researchers leamed to manage
the bureaucracy that often accompanies grants from any institution.
Table 4. Grants Financed by the Higher Education Reform Project
Program Type                   Number of Grants      Loan Allocation
Higher Education Finance Council (HEFC)
University Innovation                            234                $ 9.9 million
College (short cycle post-secondary)              96                $ 5.1 million
Continuing Education                              103               $ 4.9 million
TOTAL - program grants                            433               $19.9 million
National University Research Council (NURC)
Doctoral/Masters                                  188               $10.0 million
Research Projects                                231                $10.0 million
Multi-User Centers                                 85               $10.0 million
TOTAL - research grants                           504               $30.0 million
Total                   937                US$79.8 million
15. Project Implementation Plan. Romania. Reform of Higher Education and Research Project. August 15, 1996.
Reportno. 19291.
16. Grant titles included: hydraulic engineering educational system. Modemizing the educational process in
automation and robotics. Computer aided leaming/training in mechanical engineering laboratory. New curricula for
business and electrical engineering according to European and intemational standards. The Euro-atlantic security
structures in the post-cold war era. Setting up a new curriculum in hotel management. Chemical system informatics.



8
2.14    According to an end-of-project seminar, " grants were distributed to 43 institutions; 18 of
these got 98.9 percent of the funds. For example, the Polytechnic University of Bucharest got
18.18 percent of the funds, the University of Bucharest got 14.14 percent, The University Babes
Bolyal of Cluj got 12.12 percent. (Other institutions are smaller.) There was a positive
correlation between size and project performance, indicating that the universities with the most
managerial competence could also spend the money most efficiently. Through the grants,
research in various fields advanced; and the number of teaching staff with doctorates increased
from 7,829 in 1996 to 11,939 in 2001. Nevertheless, only about 4 percent of the teaching staff
got a grant.18 A study of perceptions carried out by the PCU indicated that few professors
sufficiently understood the reform project and its opportunities. Of a national sample of
professors asked in 2002, 13 percent had a clear idea of the project, 36 percent had a vague idea,
29 had a partial idea, while 20 percent had never heard of it. However, more detailed analyses
and assessments of effectiveness using robust quasi-experimental designs were not carried out.
2.15    Access to stipends for the needy students increased only slightly (Annex A, Table 2).
About 70 percent of the stipend budget is still given for meritorious performance only. The
amounts are small, and students who receive them typically do not need them. At the same time,
poor students have difficulty studying due to a lack of financial aid, and only 1 percent of
university students come from rural areas. ' For fear of student unrest, the government hesitates
to give fewer and larger scholarships that would be directed to the needy students who meet merit
criteria.
2.16   Mission visits. The higher education institutions included the University of Technical
Constructions in Bucharest, University of Craiova, and Ovidiu University of Constanta. (See
Annex A Table 3 for opinions of interviewed staff.) The OED mission interviewed a total of 14
professors who had received grants, alone or in groups. They all expressed satisfaction with the
opportunity to participate and receive benefits. However, they expressed great dissatisfaction
with the disbursement procedures. Money would come at unpredictable times, e.g. during the
holidays, and the professors had to end their leave and rush to spend it within 60 days. With
funding delays, visas would expire before students could travel to partner universities our summer
courses would end. Grants to develop textbooks actually got few printed, though many were put
on the web. The professors reported that could not publish and sell the books while the grant was
going on; all copies had to go to the library.
2.17    Why did only about 4 percent of professors apply for grants? Two professors
interviewed who had not applied stated that most professors do not have time for research or
program development. Public universities pay very low salaries (e.g. US$300 for a full professor
to teach one course), and staff often cannot make ends meet and teach in private universities.
This is particularly the case with social studies, which are often the specialties private universities
teach. The grants allowed almost no salaries for staff.
2.18   Professors also expressed concern regarding council members' conflict of interest. Three
professors who had received grants expressed concern about the tendency of council members to
17. Ministry of Education. 2002. Raport final privind derularea financiara Proiectului de Reforma a Invatamantului
Superior si Cercetarii. Raport UMP-RO4096.
18. In the country, there are 23,909 teaching staff (full professors 4,189, conferentiarii 3,569, lectors 7,218, assistants
5,789, lab preparers 3,144).
19. Guidelines were discussed to increase substantially the number of 'social' scholarships as well as their size (Higher
Education Financing Council, 'Guidelines for a New Scholarship Scheme', unpublished report, Sept. 2001). However,
these have not been implemented yet.



9
award grants to their own colleagues and universities; Writing proposals is time consuming, so
some staff reportedly considered it pointless given the composition of decisionmaking councils.
They recommended the use of foreign panels, who would be outsiders to the system.20
3.     Ratings
3.1    The Bank's human resource development strategy for Romania was relevant to its
economic needs, and the objectives of the projects have been relevant to the economic needs of
the country. Though the process is still going on, the investments, helped the govemment provide
students with information necessary to leam skills need in post-transition economy labor market.
The projects met or exceeded almost all their objectives and subobjectives (Annex A, Tables 1
and 2).
3.2    The pre-university project brought about an actual reform of the system. A coherent
national curriculum was created, structured on the basis of a educational philosophy focused on
critical thinking. Teaching materials and testing practices were reformed, as were vocational
education standards. Although some teachers have resisted the changes and many are still not
applying the new methods consistently, a reform was implemented in about seven years rather
than the 15 that reform movements often require.2' The process is still going on, but the
important paradigm shift has already happened. Project outcome is rated satisfactory.
3.3    The Higher Education Reform Project met its direct objectives and is rated satisfactory.
However, achievement of the larger goal of reforming most institutions and the management of
the system is uncertain. Because the grant submissions were voluntary and many professors were
too busy earning a living, the most competent universities got the lion's share of the funds. Many
of the smaller institutions did not benefit to the extent expected at appraisal, and have not reaped
the benefits of the reform. Also, all departments did not benefit equally, since some staff were
better at getting grants than others. The policy matrix indicators (Annex A Table 2) improved
during the course of the project. However, it is hard to establish a link between the areas of
project disbursement and policy issues, and it cannot be assumed that the project was responsible
for this improvement. Poor students' access to stipends did not increase to the extent expected.
Institutional Development Impact
3.4    For both projects, institutional development is rated high. The education policy was
reoriented to emphasize the development of competencies, skills and attitudes, clear curricular
and achievement standards, student-centered learning, and relevance to social issues and life.
National institutions were formnally established and competent professionals were trained at
various levels to sustain the development. These reforms were necessary for a country moving
towards democratic society and market economy.
20. This issue had been raised during appraisal, but Bank staff had stated that a composition of national panels was
standard in other countries. Foreign panels would substantially increase the cost of the process.
21. Verspoor, A. Challenges to the Planning of Education. Working Paper, Report No: 10994. Population and Human
Resources Department. Education and Employment Division background paper series no. 92/60.



10
Sustainability
3.5    The sustainability of both projects is rated likely. Reform policies are broadly supported
by the government and the population. Recurrent expenditure budgets are available to maintain
various features of the reform, such as testing initiatives, textbook production and distribution.
Although teachers are not necessarily enthusiastic about the reform, they continue to implement it
in the classroom, and the government is supervising supervising their work effectively. Even if
the Bank does not finance another project, the European Union and other institutions have
research programs that are extended to Romania. It is likely that professors who have become
experienced in receiving grants will be able to manage new ones and might serve as mentors to
others who may apply to various funding organizations in the future.
Bank Performance
3.6    For the pre-university reform project, Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory.
According to government staff interviewed by the mission, the coordinated effort would not have
taken place without the Bank's financing and leadership. The Bank overcame initial reservations
about project design and took the risk of preparing a project according to the aspirations of
reform-minded government officials. In 1992-93, when the country had little experience with
independent decisionmaking, the Bank located professionals capable of championing a reform at
the Institute of Educational Sciences. It identified members of a well-articulated team that
studied experiences in other countries and was able to put together a reform program that was
implemented faster than expected and in half the time that reform programs in other countries
may require.22 The coordinated effort would not have taken place without the Bank's financing.
During implementation, the Bank offered supportive advice without trying to impose ideas, and
the teams who worked on Romania were highly appreciated.
3.7    Bank performance of the higher education project is rated satisfactory. Specific policy
objectives were met. The Bank brought to Romania considerable expertise regarding the
implementation of grant award mechanisms and supervised the project regularly. However,
researchers had to endure heavy bureaucracy partly because the conservative size of the special
account, and the Bank ultimately did not provide satisfactory solutions. Furthermore, the Bank
overestimated the willingness of professors living in precarious financial circumstances to engage
in grant proposal writing, particularly when award committees might be seen by some professors
as less than fully objective. Thus, though project objectives were achieved, the greater goal of
subsector reform remains elusive.
Borrower Performance
3.8    Overall, borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The government showed much
commitment to implement, and efforts were made to streamline procurement procedures. The
mission did not hear of mismanagement related to Bank funds. The process for the
implementation of both projects was carried out as well as possible under the circumstances,
though with some obstacles, such as lack of counterpart funds for the higher education project.
The 1997 change of government brought about staff discontinuity and neglect of teacher training,
while later governments considered rolling back some of the reforms.
22. Georgescu and Palade 2002, p. 27.



I1
3.9     The sector is continuing to evolve. The projects constituted a top-down approach, and as
inputs are consolidated, a bottom-up strategy for quality improvement is developing.
4.     Issues for Future Consideration
Low Teacher Salaries Inhibit Reform
4.1    Low salaries were a frequent discussion issue with the OED mission in schools and
universities. A young primary-school teacher earns about US$70 per month, while a full
university earns about $300.23 The average annual nominal teacher salary for 2001 was about
US$1070, less than earnings of similarly qualified people and substantially less than the per
capita income.24 World Bank experience indicates that salaries should be two to three times the
per capita income of a country if the teacher corps is to be sustainable.
4.2    The very low salaries in Romania impede the reform efforts in various ways and may
jeopardize project sustainability. Teachers cannot afford the transport and payments to teacher
training centers, and many of them work after-hours in private coaching. Because primary-school
salaries are particularly low, some prefer to work as substitute teachers in secondary schools.
Similarly, university teaching staff must take on more work in order to afford raising families.
Survival issues may take precedence over educational reform or the desire to write grant
proposals for research. So, teaching staff at all levels with skills that are useful in the labor
market (e.g. foreign languages or computer skills) do not stay in schools.
4.3    However, instruction is also organized inefficiently throughout the sector. Primary
school classes are often small, with 12-25 students according to OED mission observations. One
option might be to close many small schools and transport students a few kilometers away, where
economies of scale might enable the government to pay fewer teachers larger salaries. The
numbers of children are dropping (Table 1), and the system does not need expansion at the lower
levels. However, the cost and reliability of transport must be taken into account. Teachers asked
about this option expressed the concern that during winter months, younger students might be
unable to reach more remote schools. There is a need for a cost-benefit study of various options.
4.4    Use of university professors' time is similarly inefficient. For US$300, full professors
teach only one course of about eight hours per month. (Lower-rank staff teach more hours, and
for more courses, all ranks are paid extra.) For the remaining working time, staff are expected to
do research and interact with students, but many spend their time working elsewhere, notably in
private universities that pay more. It might be more efficient to increase teaching hours and
improve salaries, thus making it possible for professors to work only in one place. The Ministry
of Education made some efforts, but universities have not yet agreed to work reforms.
4.5    Financing of education often creates conflicts and difficulties. However, brave steps in
this direction will facilitate the evolution of reforms the government has undertaken.
23. Teacher salaries are about 40% of average salaries in Romania (Fretwell, D. and A. Wheeler. 2001, p. 2).
24. Source: The National Institute for Statistics and staff calculations, data obtained from the Country Office.



12
Students are Tracked too Early
4.6     At the end of grade 8, students take an examination that in most cases determines their
future educability. If they pass it (as about 71 percent do - Table 2), they go on to general
education, but if they fail they go to vocational schools. (Some may transfer to general schools if
they have very good grades.) Experience in other countries suggests that early specialization
tends to place the higher-income students in the science-oriented or more demanding secondary
schools, leaving technical or less demanding education for poorer students. 25 In low-income rural
schools, like those in Oltenitsa largely serving the Roma, only half the students may pass the test.
Even when the poorer students do, they may lack the grades to enter schools that emphasize math
and science or private schools.26
4.7     At the time of this report, legislation is pending to lengthen compulsory education from 9
years to 10 and to replace the capacitate examination with different examination procedures, in
line with national standards. It is hoped that the potentially discriminating effects of the early-
tracking policy can thus be mitigated.
Lessons
4.8     Experience with the projects confirms a number of OED lessons from education projects:
* Projects that focus on comprehensive reform can be successful in countries that have
capacity and determination. When ministries collaborate effectively and borrower
staff are committed to the reform process, projects that involve multiple ministries
may be effectively implemented.
* Comprehensive, complex and demanding reforms can work well if initiated through
respected national institutions, particularly if the goals of the reform are clearly
explained to the public.
* Rigid procurement and disbursement requirements imposed on smaller institutions
(such as schools) or individuals who receive grant funds may adversely impact their
ability to implement their projects. Special efforts may be required to limit the
paperwork and deadline obligations that grant recipients face.
* Small grants (e.g., for stipends or research) often have a portion contributed by the
government. Government delays in paying counterpart funds disrupt important
educational activities of individuals. Arrangements should be made during appraisal
25. There is a large body of research in the US and other countries, consistently against early tracking. Examples are:
Carnegie Council on Adolescent Development. (1989). Turning points: Preparing American youth for the 21st century.
New York: Carnegie Corporation. ED 312 322.
Schneider, J. M. (1989). Tracking: A national perspective. Equity and Choice, 6(1), 11-17.
Veves, M. (1989). Beyond tracking: A teacher's view. Equity and Choice, 6(1), 18-22.
Tunisia: Republique Tunisienne. 2000. Le Systeme Educatif Tunisien: Orientations Stragegiques. World Bank:
MNSHD Discussion Paper Series No 5.
Wheelock, A. (1992). Crossing the tracks: How "untracking" can save American schools. New York: The New Press.
26. Fretwell and Wheeler 2001.



13
to shift counterpart funds to components where a shortfall or delay will not disrupt
crucial activities.






15
Annex A
Annex A. Project Activities
Table 1. Education Reform Project (Loan 3724-RO)
Components/         Activities        Targets to be        Outputs             Outcomes
subcomponents                           achieved
Raising Quality                      4.0% increase in  4.2% expenditure    Schools made the
of Basic and                         ed. Expenditures  increase            transition to general,
Secondary                            as % of GDP       48.72% increase in  broad education
Education                                              academic high
(US$65.6m)                                             school enrollments
33.3 1% decrease in
pedagogical high
schools
Curriculum          66 programs       443 programs        New curricula offer
development                                              teachers choice of
(US$3.2 m)                                                topics, stimulate
critical thinking
Teacher training                      137,000 trained in  Training was delayed,
(US$6.2 m)                            various aspects     not clearly linked with
curricular reforrm,
succeeded only
partially in conveying
reform messages
Technical assistance  Proposal expected  Proposal was     Programs gradually
for preservice                        delayed            improving linkages
programs                                                  with reform
Inservice training  6 local teacher   42 local centers    Centers provide
institutions capacity  centers        10 resource centers  various training
increase                                                  courses, but they are
optional
Syllabus copies to  Syllabi for 30    Printed and delivered,
gr. 12 teachers   subjects to gr. 12  often the main source
teachers            for teacher advice
Assessment and      15-20 subjects,   90-100 subjects     Capacity developed to
examinations        content agreed                        carry out large-scale
(US$6.8 m)                                                reliable high-stakes
examinations
Refurbish building  completed          Satisfactory condition.
for examinations                       Local authorities
council                               report improved test
scores
Occupational        300 occupations   Standards           Vocational training
Standards and                         established,        subsequently funded
Assessment                            validated for 300   by the EU Phare
(US$2.3 m)                            occupations         project
Textbook            750 book titles, gr.  Publishers learned to  Multiple textbook
production          1-12              develop textbooks   titles used in schools
(US$47.2 m)
Textbook printing   20 million        The PCU printed 24  Used in schools
textbooks          million textbooks
Improving        Resource allocation,  2 sets of improved  I set of formula  Determination of use
Financing and    management,         allocation formulas  established       is still in process
Management       mobilization        established and in
(US$7.8 m)         -      I



16
Annex A
Components/         Activities        Targets to be        Outputs
subcomponents                           achieved                                Outcomes
(US$6.0 m)         use
Financial managers  29,000 managers   10,000 managers     Training is considered
training           in 10 judets                           effective
Increase authority of  Training activities  Some training took  Some inspectors still
inspectorates                         place               not sufficiently
knowledgeable
School monitoring                     functional          MIS collects some
system                                                    variables, not all
needed
Feasibility studies  Targets unclear  Assessment, rural   Useful for further
education
Rural Education   Teacher and        Targets unclear    Carried out as     Effect unknown
principal training                    expected
Grades 1-8        Basic learning                        Provided, including  Rural schools better
8 of 42 counties  materials                             some computers     able to function
Teaching materials,                   Carried out as      Rural schools got more
equipment,                            expected            books than they would
production                                                otherwise have
Monitoring and                        Impact study carried  Effect unknown
evaluation                            out



17
Annex A
Table 2. Reform of Higher Education and Research Project (Loan 4096-RO)
Components/          Activities         Targets to be        Outputs
subcomponents                             achieved                                Outcomes
Management                                                                    Objectives fulfilled
capacity                                                                      after major delays;
improvement                                                                   component delinked
(US$14.3                                                                      from the project
million)
Component         Higher education    Training visits     Accomplished;       Members became
financed by       councils                                Councils received   knowledgeable of
European Union                                            substantial training  procedures in other
(Phare RO-9601                                                                countries
for US$ 10
million)
Workshops            10 per year         Unknown number      Delays affected
carried out         outcomes of other
components.
Management
information systems -
establishing databases
Undergraduate    Competitive support  Undetem-ined        433 grants awarded  Many students
and continuing    for undergraduate   number of peer-     to develop new      reportedly attending
education        programs             reviewed grant      programs according  the new programs and
(US$27.6         (managed by          proposals for       to labor-market     courses; finances
million)         financing council)   university, shorter  needs              audited but detailed
college, and                            outcomes not
continuing education                    evaluated
Postgraduate     Introducton or       50% of peer-        503 grants awarded  Largest grants
education and    reinforcement of     reviewed proposals  for research in     awarded for
research         fields important for  reserved for       various areas,      engineering and
(US$42.1         market economy -     neglected areas:    criterion met       sciences; finances
million)         Innovations           Economics,                             audited but research
Managed by the       marketing,                              outcomes and utility
National University  management, social                      not evaluated in detail
Research Council)    sciences
Strengthen research                      Grant recipients and  Capacity greatly
management capacity                      universities leamed  strengthened
to manage funds
Develop academic     Common curricula    Several academic    Contacts facilitated
networks             among universities  exchanges           curricular
improvement
Mobilize outside                         Undetermined        Ability to carry out
funds                                    number of           research improved
researchers got     likelihood of future
funds from EU,      funding
firms e.g. HP, IBM
Multi-user research                                         Centers of excellence
centers of excellence                                        established, exact
number unknown
Sector policies  Extemal productivity:  No targets         131,046 students in  Students expected to
Increase enrollments                     2001/02 year        find jobs accordingly
in market-oriented
fields
Quality assurance:   No targets          Revitalized through  Students expected to
revitalize programs                      grant               be more



18
Annex A
Components/ !t.i.                        Targets to be          Outputs
subcomponents                               achieved
implementation       knowledgeable
Intemal efficiency:  Raise recovery from  Estimated increase  University finance to
Control public       7% to 15-20%         32%                 be more sustainable
expenditures
Equity               At least 20% of      Slight revisions    Students who do not
scholarships for    only. 30% allocated  need the money
merit and need, only  for merit+need     receive small amounts,
3% of budget for    scholarships, rest for  while the needy ones
merit alone         merit alone          are deprived
System and institution  System formula    Formula developed   Funds should be
management            funding developed                       distributed more
equitably to
institutions



19
Annex A
Table 3. Opinions Regarding Project Aspects
Education Reform Higher Education
Project              eform and Research
75 teachers,        roject
principals, inspectors, 27 professors and staff
staff
What were the most important benefits of the project in your area?          _        _
The reform was brought about successfully                                           X                   X
Improved condition of school buildings, fumiture, quality control of work           X
Poor students spend more time in the refurbished schools                            X
Computer use became common among staff (or teachers)                                X
Project trained school directors on a large scale                                   X
Project developed school-based management                                           X
Textbook quality has much improved                                                  X
children are very happy.                                                            X
Teachers now do differential, individualized work                                   X
Manuals do last 4 years                                                             X
School repairs through the school rehabilitation project were satisfactory          X
University students were happy, they got assistantships and research grants                             X
Grants have helped keep people who would otherwise go abroad for research                               X
What problems were faced in implementing the project? What were its
disadvantages?
Bureaucracy was extremely complicated                                               X                   X
Aside from textbooks there is a lack of teaching materials in schools               X
There are still few computers in schools                                            X
Teacher training remains optional                                                   X
Teachers faced difficulties in agreeing on altemative textbooks                     X
Altemative textbooks must be kept for 4 years                                       X
There is a lack of sports space                                                     X
Reform hard on older teachers, resistance in changing methods                       X
People lose themselves in details, do not see the overall effects                   X
People change but they need to change more                                          X
Curricula are still too much loaded with details                                    X
Roma often need to get to grades 4-5 to read well                                   X
Failed teacher training is due to weak motivation                                   X
From the time application was submitted to actual financing, over a year would pass                      X
Which components worked best in bringing about results, which did not?
Teacher training was not effective                                                  X
Equipment given is kept locked in schools to prevent theft or destruction expressed
overall favorable impression of the project                                         X
They delivered a lot of training on financial management, it was of good quality and
useful                                                                              X
How effective were the various Bank staff or consultants who worked on the
project?
Bank staff came repeatedly, were helpful and interested                             X                    X
Bank advice was appreciated more than the money                                     X                    X
Some consultants were not helpful, did not understand the country's needs           X                    X



20
Annex A
Education Reform Higher Education
Project            Reform and Research
75 teachers,       Project
principals, inspectors, 27 professors and staff
taff
What training did you receive through the project? Did it teach you what it was
supposed to?
Project management training, procurement, bids handling                          X                   X
Staff leamed to use computers, earlier some were afraid of them                  X
Leamed to deal with complicated Bank requirements, such as temis of reference    X                   X
Overall, staff leamed a lot they did not know                                    X                   X
What financial irregularities or qualified audits were there in the project, if any?        X  _    _   _X
There were no qualified audits                                                   X                   X
The higher education project councils awarded many grants to themselves and to their
friends or their universities                                                                        X
What would be different in education sector of your state if the project had not
existed?
Quality of education would have remained low                                     X                   X
Management would be more centralized without it and less transparent             X                   X
The quality of materials and educational interventions would be lower             X
the assessment service would not exist.                                          X
What institutional problems exist that the reform did not address?
There was no clear legislation about decentralization. It was not possible to develop the
formula well if one did not have permission to tise it.                           X
Other issues and observations
Few women getting grants, perhaps 1/3                                                                X
Curricula should cover the various aspect of similar content at about the same time  X
Consortia of small universities should have been done rather than have many small
ndependent ones                                                                                      X
Schools bum wood, more benign sources of energy should be used                   X
Note: An X indicates issue that was brought up in individual and group discussions. Exact numbers could not be provided.



21
Annex B
Annex B. Basic Data
ROMANIA EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT (LOAN 3724)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                73.50             62.95                  86.0
Loan amount                                        50.0
Cancellation                                                            0
Project Dates
Original                       Actual
Identification                                      11/03/1991                    11/03/1991
Appraisal                                           03/01/1993                    03/01/1993
Effectiveness                                       10/07/1994                    10/07/1994
Closing date                                        03/31/2000                    02/28/2002
Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
Actual/Latest Estimate
Stage of Project Cycle                      N° Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 Info not available           Info not available
Appraisal/Negotiation                      Info not available           Info not available
Supervision                                     206.34                       613.9
ICR                                              1.2                          2.85
Total                                           207.54                       616.75
Note: FACT data available only from 1996.



22
Annex B
Mission Data
Date     No. of     Specializations represented        Performance Ratinp
(month/year) persons                              Implementation       Development
progress             objective
Identification/  11/03/1991   6   1 task team leader, 1 education
Preparation                       economist, 1 principal gen. educator,
3 consultants
02103/1992     7    1 task team leader, 1 division chief,
1 sr. implementation specialist,
1 employment & training specialist,
1 education economist, 1 education
tech. specialist, 1 consultant
Appraisal/     06/08/1992     9   Pre-appraisal mission members:
Negotiation                       1 task team leader,
1 sr. implementation specialist,
1 curriculum specialist, 1 general
education specialist, 1 employment &
training specialist, 1 education
economist; 1 assessment specialist,
1 teacher training spec.,
03/22/1993    11    Appraisal mission members:
1 education materials specialist
1 task team leader, 1 sr.
implementation specialist,
1 curriculum & teacher training spec.,
1 general education specialist,
1 sr. employment & training
specialist, 1 assessment specialist,
1 textbook specialist, 1 project
monitoring and evaluation specialist,
2 operation officers, 1 program
assistant
Supervision    07/22/1994     5    1 task team leader, 1 curriculum
specialist, 1 textbook specialist, 1    S                S
operations officer, 1 oper.analyst
03/03/1995     5    1 task team leader, 1 project officer,
1 operations officer, 1 assessment     S                 S
consultant, 1 textbook consultant, 1
operations analyst.
06/30/1995     6    1 education economist/TTL,
1 operations officer, 1 employment     S                 S
spec., 2 consultants, 1 oper. analyst
11/21/1995     5    1 education economistiTTL, 1
operations officer, 1 employment        S                S
specialist, 2 consultants
06/07/1996     4    1 education economistlTTL, 2           S                 S
consultants, 1 operations officer
04/30/1997     4    1 education economist, 2               S                 S
consultants, 1 operations officer
11/14/1997     5    1 education economist/TTL, 2           S                 S
consultants, 1 operations officer, 1
employment specialist
05/27/1998     5    1 education economist/TTL, 2           S                 S
consultants, 1 team leader, 1
assistant project officer



23
Annex B
Date      No. of    Specializations represented         Performance Ratina
(month/year) persons                                Implementation       Development
progress             objective
06/30/1999     6    1 sr. education specialistrTTL, 1       S                 S
education specialist, 1 sr. education
specialist, 1 general educafton
specialist, 1 operations analyst,
1 financial management specialist
10/22/1999     5    1 sr. operations officer/TTL, 1 PTL, 1  S                 S
education specialist, 1 sr. education
specialist, 1 financial & management
specialist, 1 operations analyst
10/06/2000     5    1 sr. operations/TTL, 1 PTL, 1          S                 S
education spedalist,1 sr.
implementation officer, 1 financial
mgmt. special, I operations analyst,
04/06/2001     4    1 sr. operations/TTL, 1PTL, 1            S                S
education specialist, 1 operation
analyst, 1 sr. implementation spec.,
12/17/2001     2    1 sr. operations/TTL, PTL, 1             S                S
operations analyst
ICR            06/17/2002      5   1 sr. operations officer/TTL, 1 PTL      S                S
1 operations analyst, 1 education
specialist consultant, 1 program
assistant, 1 team assistant






25
Annex B
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 4096)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
Estimate       current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                69.8               84                    83.0
Loan amount                                        50.0
Cancellation                                                         19.0
Project Dates
Actual
Board approval                                        09/19/96
Signing                                               02/10/96
Effectiveness                                         01/23/97
Closing date                                          09/30/02
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual/Latest Estimate
No Staff weeks                          US$ ('000)
Appraisal/ Negotiations                      114.2*                                 571
Supervision                                   90.4                                  452
ICR                                            4.0                                   20
Total                                         208.6                                 104.3



26
Annex B
Mission Data
Date      No. of         Staff days in field        Performance Rating
(month/year) persons
Performance    Rating
rating      trend
Identification/    03/25/1995   2       Task Manager; Sr. Educ. Specialist
Preparation
06/16/1995   7       Division Chief; Task Manager; Sr.
Educ. Specialist; Operations Officer;
Consultants (3)
10/02/1995  7        Task Manager; Sr. Education
Specialist; Operations Officer;
Procurement Specialist; Consultants
(3)
Appraisal/NegoUation 02/05/1996  6      Task Manager; Sr. Education
Specialist; Operations Officer;
Consultants (3)
07/29/1996   5       Task Manager; Operations Officer;
Lawyer; Disbursement Officer;
Procurement Specialist
Supervisions
04/25/1997   3       Task Manager; Consultant; Project  S          S
Officer
12/14/1997   4       Task Team Leader; Educ. Team    S             S
Leader; Higher Educ. Finance;
Project Assistant
04/17/1994   5       Task Team Leader; Educ. Team    S             S
Leader; Higher Educ. Finance;
Project Assistant; Higher Educ.
Research
11/30/1998   5       Mission Leader; Educ. Team Leader; S          S
Project Assistant; Consultant-
Finance; Consultant-Research
05/07/1999   4       Mission Leader; Project Assistant;  S         S
Educ. Team Leader; Consultant
11/12/1999   5       Mission Leader; Program Team    S             S
Leader; Financial Management;
Consultant
05/12/2000   6       Task Team Leader; Program Team  S             S
Leader; Fin. Management Spec.;
Operations Analyst; Consultant (2)
11/28/2000   6       Task Team Leader; Consultant;   S             S
Operations Analyst; Fin. &
Management Sp.
06/13/2001   3       Task Team Leader; Consultant;    S            S
Operations Analyst
11/16/2001   3       Task Team Leader; Consultant;   S             S
Operation Analyst
05/24/2002   3       Task Team Leader; Consultant;    S            S
Operation Analyst
ICR
12/05/2002   5       Task Team Leader; PTL; Operation  S           S
Analyst; Consultant; Program
Assistant (2)



