Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqtort Now 11843
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2380/CREDIT 1439)
MAY 3, 1993
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(annual averages)
Rs per US1.00      USS per Rs. 1.00
FY83                                   12.75                0.078
FY84                                   13.48                0.074
FY85                                   15.16                0.066
FY86                                   16.13                0.062
FY87                                   17.17                0.058
FY88                                   17.55                0.057
FY89                                   19.18                0.052
FY90                                   21.39                0.047
FY91                                   22.37                0.045
Note: Since January 8, 1982, the exchange rate for the rupee has been managed
with respect to a weighted basket of currencies.
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACT         Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
ADB         Asian Development Bank
DER         Debt/equity ratio
DFIs        Development Finance Institutions
DSCR        Debt Service Cover Ratio
FSAL        Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOP         Government of Pakistan
HBL         Habib Bank Limited
IDBP        Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IIC         Industrial Investment Credit
KSE         Karachi Stock Exchange
MCB         Muslim Commercial Bank
N.A.        Not applicable
n.a.        not available
NBP         National Bank of Pakistan
NCBs        National Commercial Banks
NDFC        National Development Finance Corporation
OK          Covenant complied with
PBC         Pakistan Banking Council
PICIC       Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
PFIs        Participating Financial Institutions
SALs        Structural Adjustment Loans
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SBP         State Bank of Pakistan
SFYP        Sixth Five-Year Plan
UBL         United Bank Limited
GOVERNMENT OF ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICMIL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U. S. A.
omce of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 3, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Industrial Investment Credit Project (Loan 2380/Credit 1439)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Pakistan
- Industrial Investment Credit Project (Loan 2380/Credit 1439-PAK)", prepared by the
South Asia Regional Office. No comments have been received from the Government.
The loan/credit was approved on February 2, 1984 and closed on December 31,
1990, three years behind schedule.
The PCR provides a candid assessment of project design and implementation
but lacks information on sub-project performance. Its analysis of the Participating
Financial Institutions' (PFIs) performance with respect to the covenants is confined to
1984-87, instead of the full implementation period.
The main objective of the project was to promote private sector industrial
investment by improving the credit delivery system to ensure a stable flow of term
financing to private industries. This objective was partially met. But sustainability of
benefits is uncertain because of the PFIs' weak financial position and poor loan
collection performance, a consequence of legal barriers to loan recovery, lack of
institutional autonomy, and systemic breakdown in credit discipline.
The impact of the project on institutional strengthening was limited. It failed
to rehabilitate the two ailing development finance institutions (DFIs), although the
technical assistance was helpful in developing project finance skills of the commercial
banks. Overall, the project outcome is not satisfactory.
An audit of the project is being carried out.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FIRST INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT (IIC I)
(LOAN 2380/CREDIT 1439-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ..............................................................  i
Evaluation Summary ................................................... ii
PART I          PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity .........................................  1
Background ...............................................  1
B.      Project Obiectives  and DescriRtion
Project Objectives ....................................  1
Project Description ...................................  2
C.      Proiect Design and Organization
Project Preparation ...................................  2
Project Design ........................................  3
D.      Proiect ImRlementation
Implementation Schedule ........................                          3
Allocations and Issues ........................                           4
E.      Project Results
Objectives and Targets ........................                           7
Shortcomings ...... ....................................  7
F.  Project Sustainability.                                                       7
G. Bank Performance.                                                              8
H.  Borrower Performance.                                                         9
I.     Lessons and Recommendations
For Bank Performance.                                                     9
For Borrower Performance .10
PART II        COMMENTS FROM THE GOVERNMENT  (NOT YET RECEIVED)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Loans and Credits ...................................  11
Project Timetable ...........................................  12
Loan/Credit Disbursements ...................................  13
Project Implementation: Selected Financial Indicators ......  14
Project Results: Studies ....................................  15
Status of Covenants .........................................  16
Use of Bank Resources .......................................  20
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Sectoral Allocation ................................  24
Annex 2: Ex-Ante Profile of Subprojects .....................  25



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FIRST INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT (IIC I)
(LOAN 2380/CREDIT 1439-PAK)
PREFACE
(i)      This Project Completion Report (PCR) covers the First Industrial
Investment Credit Project (IIC I), for which Loan 2380 and Credit 1439-PAK
in the respective amounts of US$50 million and SDR 47.3 million, totalling the
equivalent of US$100 million, were approved on February 2, 1984. The
loan/credit closed on December 31, 1990, three years behind schedule. The loan
and credit were substantially disbursed, except for US$0.38 million for the
loan and SDR3.52 million for the credit representing largely unused amounts
for industrial finance.
(ii)     The PCR's Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III were
prepared by the Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division of the
Country III Department in the South Asia Region.
(iii)    The last supervision mission for the project, scheduled for August
15, 1990, did not materialize due to the Gulf Crisis. Hence, preparation of
the PCR began during the fall of 1991 and was based, inter alia, on the
President's Report and Recommendation; the Staff Appraisal Report; President's
Reports and SARs of associated projects; Loan/Credit and Subsidiary Loan
Agreements; Supervision Reports; Annual Reports on Implementation and
Supervision; Project Correspondence Files; internal Bank memoranda; Financial
Statements and Audit Reports of PFIs; Subproject Files; data provided through
the Resident Mission in Islamabad; and interviews with Bank staff who dealt
with the project at various stages.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FIRST INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT (IIC I)
(LOAN 2380/CREDIT 1439-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
(i)    Obiectives and Design. The project was aimed mainly at improving the
industrial credit delivery system and focussing on the rehabilitation of two
distressed development finance institutions (DFIs), Pakistan Industrial Credit
and Investment Corporation (PICIC) and Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP). The strategy shifted from traditional single institution lines to a
multi-institutional approach. The GOP onlent the funds to 3 DFIs (PICIC, IDBP,
and NDFC) and 2 NCBs (HBL and UBL). The DFIs were fully appraised and covered
by quantitative financial covenants. Due to the NCBs' reluctance to disclose
intimate financial and operational information, Bank scrutiny was confined to
the NCBs' term lending operations and no tests of creditworthiness were
defined. The following elements were serious constraints at the outset: no
provision for DFI recapitalization plans, the lack of autonomy of
participating financial institutions (PFIs), the substandard state of the
accounting profession, and the absence of broad policy reforms in the real and
financial sectors. (Paras. 3.01-3.04)
(ii)   ImRlementation ExRerience and Issues. Negotiations, Board approval,
signing, and effectiveness were basically within schedule. Economic,
political, and institutional factors caused a three-year slippage in closing.
Appraisal estimates of disbursements were overly optimistic as these did not
conform to the DFI disbursement profile; but the Bank flexibly responded to
commitment and disbursement problems. (Paras. 4.02 & 4.08) Subproject
allocation, an area where the Bank's role was prominent, substantially
conformed to priorities defined by the Sixth Five Year Plan (SFYP). PICIC's
commitments showed a high utilization rate and pronounced concentration on
textiles, contrary to SAR expectations. The analysis of all available
subproject files showed 74% having debt/equity ratios (DERs) higher than 60:40
and 43% with debt service cover ratios (DSCRs) below 2.0:1, breaching the
benchmarks normally acceptable to the Bank. The ratio of green field to
existing borrowers was 1.9:1, indicative of the risk level. The ex-ante range
was 14-50% for IERRs and 15-50% for IFRRs. Wide IERR-IFRR disparities were
observed for a number of projects, especially textiles, suggesting
inefficiency in resource utilization. (Paras. 4.03-4.04)
(iii) The systemic breakdown in credit discipline, legal recovery obstacles,
and highly-leveraged projects were pressure points for the PFIs. Bank efforts
at rationalizing capital structures were frustrated by conflicting public
policies toward the treatment of bridge finance used by borrowers as debt.
Nonetheless, PICIC and IDBP substantially met the required absolute collection
targets. But their low total collection ratios (47-55% in 1987) implied that
the targets set by the Bank were modest. Ironically, two of PICIC's directors
were cited during supervision as willful defaulters. In sharp contrast to the
low collection ratios, both DFIs showed healthy debt service cover ratios well
above the prescribed minimum. This financial inconsistency implied



- iii -
noncompliance, without the Bank's awareness and loss of eligibility for the
DFIs. (Para. 4.05)
(iv)   TA grants were useful in upgrading and diversifying PFI manpower
skills. However, actual outlays for training exceeded targets by 91%. There
was no midstream review of global training needs, depriving the Bank of a
mechanism for optimizing results and minimizing abuse. Subsector studies were
not adequately circulated to all PFIs. Diversification studies for PICIC and
IDBP were not fully synchronized with subsequent organization and systems
studies. Diversification moves of PICIC and IDBP suffered setbacks due to the
lack of expertise and management turnover caused by political interference.
(Para. 4.07)
(v)    Results and Sustainability. The project has succeeded in ensuring
competitive and uninterrupted retailing of loans with the inclusion of NCBs,
eventually removing DFI operating anomalies, and enhancing PFI project finance
skills. Institutional restructuring has not been achieved. IDBP is ineligible
under all IIC projects. PICIC, HBL, and UBL became ineligible under other IIC
projects, although PICIC was later reinstated. PICIC's real condition has
been masked by massive reschedulings. (Paras. 5.01-5.02) There are doubts
whether uninterrupted industrial finance delivery can be sustained under
present circumstances. The real performance and solvency of additional NCBs
mobilized as retail outlets are in question. The inherent balance sheet and
operational structure of PFIs, their profitability and cash flow
characteristics, and the real/financial sector environment constitute serious
viability threats. (Paras. 6.01-6.02). However, reforms in the financial
sector and other measures, pursued jointly by the Bank and the GOP, would tend
to strengthen sustainability in the long run.
(vi)   Performance.  Limited access to NCB information weakened the appraisal
and supervision process. The SAR unrealistically assumed that DFI
restructuring would succeed without providing for a recapitalization plan.
Bank efforts in helping reduce GOP interference with PFI were ineffective,
partly due to the absence of appropriate legal provisions. There were not
enough supervision missions. Efforts to develop the data base to track
compliance with covenants were inadequate. GOP action in enacting requisite
policy reforms to strengthen the real and financial sectors were slow and
inconsistent. PFIs themselves were not forthright in disclosing their true
financial situation. (Paras. 7.01-8.01)
(vii) Lessons Learned and Recommendations. (Paras. 9.01-9.04) The absence of
sustained policy and institutional reforms in the real and financial sectors
renders the sustainability of PFIs, which have to operate in an extremely
distorted environment, highly unlikely. There are important lessons for Bank
performance that flow from this main insight: (1) Future credits should be
reinforced by systemic reforms, through FSAL and related programs, that
specifically address the elements jeopardizing PFIs' sustainability. (2)
Institutional restructuring is unlikely to succeed without these
prerequisites, among others: full institutional autonomy; prudential
regulations on income recognition, provisioning, capital adequacy, and loan
concentration; an effective legal recovery system; and internationally-
acceptable accounting/auditing standards. Vis-a-vis the latter, it should also
- -----   - ----



- iv -
be noted that the effectiveness of Bank auditing requirements is severely
diminished when these are applied to entities operating in a national
environment where accounting/auditing standards are not at internally accepted
levels. (3) SAR risk assessment should address institutional
creditworthiness, not just credit delivery, issues. (4) Bank legal leverage
against adverse Borrower/Guarantor behavior should be exercised decisively,
even after full commitment of funds, if other initiatives applied in earnest
fail. (5) Even in the absence of an explicit stipulation, the Bank's General
Conditions should be invoked to allow Bank access to relevant information
from all PFIs.However, the possibility of pursuing remedial measures due to a
clear deterioration in performance or condition can only be pursued if
specific covenants are in place. (6) To optimize TA grants and minimize abuse,
there should be a projectwide reassessment in case of significant deviations
from estimates. (7) Bank Head Office should be spared heavy time involvement
with small TA ticket items through formal delegation to the Resident Mission.
There are also parallel lessons for Borrower performance: (1) The GOP can
promote the success of PFIs if it refrains from assigning non-financial and
non-economic roles to them. (2) Serious consideration should be given to
tenured managerial positions to provide for institutional stability. (3) PFIs
should initiate and welcome mergers if these constitute real options for
survival and growth. (4) There must be clear, formalized, and strict rules
governing insider transactions among PFIs. (5) Non-proprietary TA components,
such as subsector studies, should be widely circulated.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FIRST INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT (IIC I)
(LOAN 2380/CREDIT 1439-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name                    First Industrial Investment Credit Project
Loan/Credit Number      Ln 2380/Cr 1439-PAK
RVP Unit                EMENA Region
Country                 Pakistan
Sectors                 Finance and Industry
Background
1.01      Starting in 1977, the GOP aimed at promoting private sector
development through divestment of industrial units nationalized in 1972,
restrictions on public sector manufacturing, and limited industrial policy
deregulation. The SFYP pursued the strategy. Substantial advances were
expected in engineering goods, selected textiles, and efficient import-
substituting manufactures. IIC I was prepared within a macro environment
characterized by improved, broad-based economic performance, with GDP growing
by 6% p.a. in real terms. However, there were weaknesses in industrial/tariff
policy and procedures, infrastructure bottlenecks, and inefficiencies in the
financial system. Corporate savings and self-investment were low and the
active expansion in private investment created pressures on the delivery
system for industrial finance. The system was constrained by a fragmented
institutional structure, centralized and detailed system of credit allocation,
and distortions in the interest rate structure. The Bank supported the GOP's
industrial strategy through its sector credits and project lending.
1.02     For more than two decades, PICIC and IDBP were the principal,
functionally-specialized term lending institutions for industrial development.
NDFC, organized later to finance public enterprises, diversified into
financing medium and large-scale private firms, emerging as the largest DFI in
Pakistan. By end-1982, these three DFIs had received from the Bank 14 loans
totalling US$384 million. As other institutions such as national commercial
banks (NCBs) expanded into term lending operations, the role of DFIs declined
in importance. The clientele and operations of DFIs and NCBs tended to
overlap. These financial institutions were largely owned by the GOP, except
for PICIC which was 51% privately-owned. The portfolios of PICIC and IDBP
suffered severely from the loss of assets with the independence of Bangladesh,
the 131% devaluation in 1972, and the subsequent nationalization measures.
B.  Project Objectives and Description
2.01     Proiect Objectives. There was continuing need for an uninterrupted
flow of industrial term finance to the private sector. Accordingly, the main
objectives of the project were to improve the industrial credit delivery
system and focus on the institutional restructuring of two weaker DFIs, PICIC
and IDBP. Systemic improvements were to be achieved through greater



competition with the inclusion of NCBs, the equalization of rules for DFIs,
improved product selection by the PFIs, and institutional strengthening
through TA programs.
2.02     Project Description.  The equivalent of US$100 million was extended
to finance US$98 million in subloans and US$2 million for TA. Three DFIs
(PICIC, IDBP, and NDFC) and two NCBs (HBL and UBL) were designated as the
PFIs. Fixed assets and permanent working capital requirements of principally
private industrial projects were eligible for financing. The Bank lent to the
GOP on standard terms. The onlending terms were for 15 years, including a 3-
year grace period, and an end-user rate of 14%. PICIC and IDBP, which were
taxable, were afforded a 4% spread. NDFC and NCBs, which were tax exempt, were
allowed a 3% spread. As was the case for many Bank borrowers at the time, the
GOP bore the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Subloan size per
subproject had a minimum of US$1.0 million and a maximum of US$4.0 million.
Exceptions to subloan limits and free limits were considered on a case-by-case
basis. A total of 40 to 50 subprojects was targeted for financing.
2.03    The TA component of US$2 million, structured to ensure flexibility in
its uses, was available for grants for training PFIs' officers in project
evaluation, preparation of project appraisal manuals, organizational and
systems studies, and sectoral studies. The training programs envisioned
indepth exposure to prevailing practices in working capital finance,
development banking, including economic aspects of project evaluation.
Subsector studies would assist PFIs in their project work. At project
preparation, US$750,000 were allotted each to organization studies and
training, while US$500,000 was earmarked for subsector studies. DFIs planned
to utilize the organization and systems studies component, while all PFIs
could benefit from project skills development. HBL, NDFC, and PICIC were
expected to undertake subsector studies to guide their operations.
C.   Project Design and Organization
3.01      Project Preparation. The project departed from the traditional
single institution credit lines and introduced a multi-institutional approach.
The new strategy provided the Bank some leverage for introducing a short menu
of reforms aimed principally at strengthening the ailing DFIs rather than a
broader agenda of policy reforms. The Bank decided not to pursue identified
issues relating to interest rate distortions, especially the crossing of
rates. The GOP committed that systemic interest rates would be positive,
which they were. Furthermore, the process of Islamization being introduced
would start to address interest rate reform. The project was viewed as the
first step in strengthening the financial sector and related dialogue under
IIC II, IIC III, and FSAL.
3.02     The project generated conflicting convictions within the Bank, the
GOP, and PFIs as to its merits and prospects. There was Bank recognition that
the weaker DFIs were on the "verge of bankruptcy" and were considered poor
credit risks. Their inclusion apparently deviated from the Bank's then



prevailing guidelines.' This decision was considered a necessary cost to
generate the benefits expected. GOP leverage would be utilized in intensifying
the collection efforts on accounts of the distressed DFIs. Close cooperation
with the Asian Development Bank, a major creditor of the DFIs, increased the
leverage in the rehabilitation process. The GOP, the Bank, and the two DFIs
would embark on a major rehabilitation program anchored on recoveries,
diversification, and internal improvements. The NCBs themselves were
apparently reluctant to participate, while the DFIs lobbied against their
entry. NCBs were apprehensive about disclosing to the Bank intimate aspects
of their operations and financial status, a sentiment shared by the GOP.
3.03    Project Design. The five PFIs were subject to meeting eligibility
criteria, the common features of which were: (i) approval by their respective
Boards of Policy and Corporate Strategy Statements, acceptable to the Bank;
and (ii) the implementation of training programs agreed with the Bank. The
review of policy and strategy statements afforded a constructive opportunity
for Bank-PFI interaction in asset rationalization guidelines. As part of
their rehabilitation program, PICIC and IDBP were subject to collection
targets, while the other PFIs were not. All DFIs were required to maintain a
minimum 1.1:1 debt service coverage ratio. The maximum DER was set at 5:1 for
IDBP and NDFC and 7:1 for PICIC. No covenants were imposed on the NCBs, as
reliance was placed on the liquidity and operational ratios monitored by
Pakistan Banking Council. PFIs were required to submit quarterly reports and
annual audited financial statements.
3.04     The circumstances surrounding the project's conception and the
compromise reached on the treatment of NCBs generated a number of design
characteristics. These elements derived from a mismatch between the broader
sectoral objectives of the project (and the Bank's strategic view of the
project) with non-sectoral conditionalities and absence of sectoral reform.
There was a formal agreement on the part of the Bank to confine the initial
and subsequent review of NCBs to their Bank-financed term lending operations,
thus limiting comprehensive assessment of creditworthiness. The state of
substandard accounting and auditing practices, and the reliability of
financial data were taken as given. There was no recourse against GOP
interference in PFIs' operations since it controlled them. This issue was
relevant to the autonomy of PFIs, especially on matters relating to managerial
appointments and credit decisions. The rehabilitation program did not include
a recapitalization plan and was not sensitive to the time lag for policy
reforms to be implemented and fully felt by the real sector.
D.   Project Implementation
4.01     Implementation Schedule. Negotiations, Board approval, signing, and
effectiveness were substantially within schedule. Commitments were generated
much faster than expected. Subsequent subloan cancellations and deceleration
occurred due to a confluence of events. These factors included low
international interest rates, volatile foreign exchange markets, the tapering
1  See: OMS 3.73, Sept. 1976, para. 41; Nov. 1986, para,  I. 7; and Nov. 1986., paras. III 14 and 19.



-4-
off of industrial investments, inability of sub-borrowers to comply with loan
conditions, competition from subsidized GOP credits, preoccupation by DFIs'
management with requisite GOP clearances for special operations, management
changes, and strategic and organizational adjustments. Subloan cancellations
arising from these events prompted three postponements of the closing date
from December 31, 1987 to December 31, 1990. The postponements allowed for
maximum utilization of the loan/credit proceeds. Loans for 51 subprojects
were finally disbursed. Commitments for a total of 30 subprojects were
cancelled. Therefore, post-commitment subloans survived at a rate of 62%. The
loan/credit was substantially disbursed (99.62%). There was a three-year
slippage noted in actual disbursements vis-a-vis appraisal estimates, which
were overly optimistic and did not follow the DFI disbursement profile.
4.02     Allocations and Issues. Based on the IIC I SAR estimates, NDFC had
the most active, while PICIC had the leanest, project pipeline among the DFIs.
There were no project pipeline data for NCBs. Reflecting its strategy, PICIC
planned on a slow growth pattern to ensure higher quality portfolio. Agro-
based, steel/engineering, cement, and chemical industries, priority areas
under the SFYP, accounted for 64% of the DFIs' pipeline. Textiles represented
only 15% of the total pipeline. Textile projects in PICIC's pipeline
represented 11% of its pipeline. It was the DFIs' strategy to reduce exposure
in textiles and promote projects in the priority activities. During
implementation, sub-sector studies were commissioned by IDBP and NDFC versus
the original plan of having these undertaken by HBL, NDFC, and PICIC. These
studies provided asset rationalization guidelines but were not adequately
circulated to other PFIs.
4.03         Based on an inventory of the final projects disbursed after IIC I
closed, PICIC turned out to be the most active retailer of funds, accounting
for 23 subprojects (US$21.78 million and SDR14.73 million). Less active were
IDBP (10 subprojects totalling US$11.25 million and SDR9.40 million), NDFC (11
projects totalling US$12.00 million and SDR8.71 million), and HBL (7
subprojects totalling US$2.34 million and SDR11.43 million). UBL was the
least active with one subloan amounting to US$2.11 million. By the time UBL
was declared eligible, most of the project funds had been committed to other
subprojects. Of the total actual commitments, 32% were allocated to textiles,
20% to food manufacturing, 16% to paper production, and the balance to other
subsectors. PICIC's commitments were highly concentrated on textiles (62%),
while 50% of the commitments of other PFIs were allocated to paper, food, and
engineering products. Although PICIC deviated from allocation expectations,
the subproject commitments of the other PFIs were largely within the desired
priorities.
4.04     The 42 subproject files available in the regional files were examined
on an ex-ante basis (Annex 1). The appraisal reports of HBL and PICIC were of
generally acceptable quality. While the fuller appraisal reports of NDFC
tended to be of acceptable quality, the summary reports were poorly presented.
The report on UBL's sole subproject was comprehensive in coverage. The
appraisal reports of IDBP on file had uneven quality. Of those examined, 31
subprojects (74%) had effective DERs exceeding 60:40, while 18 (43%) had DSCRs
below 2:1, minimum standards acceptable to the Bank. Green field projects
outnumbered existing borrowers by a ratio of 1.9:1, indicative of the risk



- 5 -
profile. The IERR range was 14%-50% (24 subprojects showing 20% or greater),
with the IFRR range being 15%-50X. Of the 6 textile subprojects with IERR
data, 2 showed wide disparity between the IERR and IFRR figures, indicating
project vulnerability to exogenous swings such as changes in international
prices for cotton and yarn, cotton subsidy, and other policies. The
disparities between the IERRs and IFRRs, for textile projects in general,
would probably be higher than indicated,2 raising doubt as to efficiency in
resource allocation. The Bank's role in asset rationalization was reinforced
during subproject review, as it emphasized the critical importance of having
high IERRs and group exposure limits.
4.05     There were no serious delays in the submission of periodic audited
financial statements by the PFIs. However, the statements did not
realistically reflect PFI performance and condition. This notwithstanding, in
the course of project implementation/supervision, it was evident that
collection and portfolio problems were of universal concern to the PFIs,
rendering their operations high risk in nature. The PFIs were exposed to the
systemic breakdown in credit discipline, legal obstacles to the recovery
process, and highly leveraged capital structures of borrowers. During the
period 1984 to 1987, 3 both PICIC and IDBP substantially met absolute
collection targets as part of IIC I conditionality. But the 1987 total
collection ratio stood at a low level of 47% for PICIC and 55% for IDBP.
Portfolio infection was brought down by PICIC, through subproject
restructuring and concerted collection efforts, from 32% in 1984 to 15% in
1987. IDBP's infection ratio remained high at 35%. Ironically, PICIC's
rehabilitation program was hampered by the fact that two of its directors were
considered as willful defaulters. The low collection ratios for both PICIC and
IDBP were inconsistent with high DSCR ratios reported. A February 1987 Bank
supervision report cited a DSCR of 1.2 for PICIC and 1.5 for IDBP, materially
higher than the covenanted minimum of 1.1. If more credible DSCR figures could
be extracted, both DFIs would probably be in violation of this eligibility
criterion then. The November 1989 supervision reported a marked drop in the
DSCRs of both DFIs below compliance level, without the DFIs being declared
ineligible. Subsequent figures showed a recovery to high DSCR levels, side by
side with low collection ratios.
4.06     To improve collection performance (and in the absence of an effective
accounting and auditing framework), the Bank acted with initiative in
suggesting the formation of special tribunals to handle exclusively recovery
cases for the PFIs. While there was delay in GOP response, the initiative
eventually bore fruit. One of the most contentious issues running throughout
the implementation phase, unidentified at the preparation stage for IIC I, was
2 While textiles represented a major share of manufacturing value-added in Pakistan (about 16X), the
20-count variety has been identified as being a relatively low-value added activity. Projects in this
subsector tended to have optimistic revenue forecasts and low domestic cotton price assumptions via-a-via
international levels.
3 To minimizo complex cross references to covenants and indicators among the IIC projects, this PCR
focuses on the period from 1984, the start of IIC I, up 1987, the scheduled closing. IIC II was approved in
1985 and IIC III in 1988. The data in this PCR analysis, drawn from SARa and supervision reports on IIC II
projects, differ in some instances from data recently available from the DFIs.



- 6 -
the incidence and treatment of bridge finance in the subproject financial
plans. Many subprojects showed bridge finance provided by financial
institutions, with refunding against future equity underwritings, as part of
equity. This prevalent practice effectively reduced the real equity stake of
subproject sponsors to minimal or negative levels. The financial structure
increased the debt service and default risks of subprojects and loaded
financial institutions with accumulations of potential non-performing assets.
The Bank took the position during sub-loan approval4 that at least 22.5% of
project cost should represent sponsors' stake in a subproject, and that bridge
finance should be treated as debt in the calculation of a project's DER. The
GOP's response to the key issue showed vacillating and inconsistent policy
signals and measures. The issue remained unresolved even after IIC I closed.
4.07     The diversification moves of PICIC and IDBP were stymied by the lack
of adequate, trained personnel. TA training outlays proved to be useful to all
PFIs, a situation not otherwise possible under the currency control program.
Training expenditures funded by TA grants exceeded original estimates by 91%.
There were numerous requests for training grants but there was no reassessment
during implementation of the aggregate and institution-specific needs,
suggesting that TA processing might have been ad hoc in nature. In 1987,
three years after IIC I was approved, diversification studies were
commissioned for both DFIs under the TA component. The follow-on organization
and systems studies were not fully synchronized with the earlier
diversification studies, implying the probable absence of careful Bank
scrutiny of the TOR. As a result, the second round of studies was of very
limited utility. While diversification moves were being pursued, the PFIs
were subjected to high top management turnover due to GOP appointments.
Starting in 1989, civil servants without banking experience were appointed as
chief executives. As a consequence, institutional instability delayed
diversification moves and weakened the rehabilitation programs.
4.08     In the course of project implementation, a number of commitment and
disbursement problems emerged. There was initial misunderstanding on the
maximum subloan allowed for each PFI. The SAR cited a US$4 million subproject
limit, while the legal documents indicated a U$4 million subloan. Some
projects considered involved foreign currency funding in excess of US$4
million, but there was lack of familiarity in handling subprojects to be
funded by more than one PFI. The Bank resolved the situation by allowing, on
a case-by-case basis, subproject commitments by PFIs beyond US$4 million.
Disbursement bottlenecks developed, in the absence of a special account, given
the multiplicity of PFIs and disbursement requests for many small ticket
items. PFIs' disbursements tended to exceed subloan authorizations of between
10-20% due to currency fluctuations. The Bank authorized deviations but
required the PFIs to clearly and more cogently factor currency fluctuations
into project cost estimates.
4 This issue, not formally addressed in IIC I loan conditionality, appeared as a formalized condition
under IIC III in 1989.



-7-
E. Project Results
5.01     Objectives and Targets. IIC I was partly successful in achieving its
objectives. The inclusion of NCBs facilitated uninterrupted retailing of
funds, ensuring the substantial disbursement of the loan and credit. In the
process, NCBs were able to internalize project finance skills. DFI operating
anomalies were corrected over time and they were eventually authorized wider
product lines to offer their clientele. Expanded services of DFIs and NCBs
(which could offer long-term loans covering foreign currency requirements)
tended to promote competition and better services to clientele, i.e., faster
service and broader product options. Operational skills, particularly in
project finance, were enhanced. There was overall dispersal of funds into
priority areas identified under the SFYP. The target of 40 to 50 subprojects
was exceeded, with 52 actually being funded. 5
5.02     Shortcomings. The objective of institutional restructuring was not
achieved. IDBP could not meet eligibility tests under all IIC projects, with
its prospects for its eventual recovery deemed highly uncertain. IDBP showed
initial nominal improvements in collection performance and product line
diversification. But portfolio infection was generally high during project
implementation. PICIC likewise showed initial progress in collection
performance and some diversification into new product lines. However, the
level of portfolio infection was a recurring issue. Rescheduling procedures
masked the real financial standing of PICIC. The real DSCRs were probably
lower than indicated in the light of low collection ratios (para. 4.05).
Compliance with the DER covenant at the time of IIC I PCR preparation was
difficult to determine. While there were external auditors' certificates
indicating compliance, an independent check on the computations yielded
material deviations from the governing loan agreement. As a minimum, there was
no full knowledge on the part of the Bank, during supervision and PCR
preparation stages, as to compliance with this basic financial covenant.
F. Project Sustainability
6.01        It is doubtful whether the gains under IIC I of ensuring the
uninterrupted flow of industrial term finance can be sustained under current
circumstances.   PICIC lost eligibility in 1989 under IIC II and IIC III but
was reinstated in 1990. UBL became ineligible in 1990 and HBL in 1991 due to
failure to meet the collection ratio covenant under the other IIC projects.
The collection performance of UBL in 1989 dropped to 55%, considerably short
of the covenanted 80% ratio, while HBL's 1990 ratio declined to 64%. As part
of the strategy of ensuring uninterrupted flow of industrial finance and other
objectives, two other PFIs were added to the eligibility list under IIC II and
IIC III, namely, MCB and NBP. Options have been narrowed down for further
expanding the retail outlets for industrial finance and maintaining the
competitive element.
5 Ex-post data were requested from the five PFIs during PCR preparation. Two PFIs submitted data on 21
subprojects or 402 of the total number of IIC I subprojects. Of the 21 subprojects reported, 11 had ex-post
IERRs/IFRRs which were identical or almost identical with the ex-ante data. Eight subprojects reportedly had
high IEMRs and IFRRs but were unprofitable. The apparent inconsistency and unroliability in the *x-oxt
data could not be verified at PR preparation.



- 8 -
6.02     The sustainability of PFIs is threatened by the decline in the
quality of their balance sheet and operational structure, their profitability
and cash flow characteristics, and the real/financial sector and policy
environment within which they operate. The asset profile and product lines of
DFIs reflect the characteristics of high risk banking without commensurate
returns. Project lending is inherently risky, considering that many
subprojects are highly leveraged and have low liquidation values. Assets and
equity tend to be overstated since provisions do not meet prudential
standards. Real margins are tight or negative due to low collection ratios,
low locked-in margins on old loans (i.e., potential liability sensitive
balance sheets), and insufficiency of real interest margins to cover cash
costs. The environment within which the PFIs operate has been characterized by
inefficiencies and distortions in the real and financial sectors, the absence
of financial discipline, and a narrow capital market. PFIs face uncertainties
arising from the profitability and capital adequacy impact of strictly
applying prudential regulations. Furthermore, the short/medium-term
performance of rescheduled projects is highly uncertain. A major consequence
of these factors is a setback in the PFIs' institutional development. The
long-awaited privatization moves adopted by the GOP during the latter part of
1991 would tend to ensure autonomy, but the issues of capital adequacy,
weaknesses in the regulatory/supervision framework, and sustained viability of
PFIs should be clearly addressed. These and other measures, pursued jointly by
the Bank and the GOT, would tend to strengthen project sustainability in the
long run.
G. Bank Performance
7.01        IIC I was an approach that marked a departure from the single
institution lines. But for reasons discussed in para. 3.04, the Bank did not
undertake a comprehensive appraisal and periodic review of the
creditworthiness of the NCBs. Based on hindsight, the Bank should have
insisted at appraisal stage on collection ratios for the NCBs, and addressed
capital adequacy and related issues. The weakness was later partly addressed
through policy dialogue under FSAL. relative to the attainment of capital
adequacy by NCBs. The Bank demonstrated consistency in following through the
restructuring and collection efforts of PICIC and IDBP, and other aspects of
the project relating to institution building, product line enhancement, and
equalization of rules. But the Bank's dialogue with the GOP did not bear
fruit in significantly reducing interference in the management and operations
of PFIs. Notwithstanding these impediments, the Bank responded flexibly to
requirements of PFIs and sub-borrowers. The Bank allowed the maximum sub-
loans per project to exceed US$4 million and permitted disbursements beyond
authorizations as a result of unforseen currency fluctuations. It also
initially approved highly leveraged projects to proceed, the wisdom of which
might be questioned in the light of the collection performance of the PFIs.
7.02     There were only 6 supervision missions during the eight-year span
from the project's approval and closing. There was no supervision mission in
1988 as a result of the 1987 Bank reorganization, while the last mission
scheduled for August 15, 1990 was cancelled due to the Gulf Crisis. The
supervision reports did not provide data continuity to facilitate tracking
compliance with the financial covenants. Many of the financial statements and



- 9 -
related reports on PFIs were not on file. Efforts to develop the data base to
track compliance with covenants were inadequate (para. 4.04). Ten of the 52
appraisal reports on subprojects financed were missing. There were
discontinuities in correspondence files that hindered fuller appreciation of
issues raised. Of the 6 supervision reports prepared, the 2 latest ones were
submitted within about 3 weeks from the return of the missions, while the 4
earlier ones were submitted within 1.5 to 3.5 months .6
H. Borrower Performance
8.01     The GOP has demonstrated lack of sustained commitment to the
objectives of the project and related activities covered under other Bank
projects.  Consequently, its performance has impacted negatively on the
success of the project in attaining objectives relative to the quality of
industrial finance. The GOP has been slow in carrying out requisite policy
reforms to strengthen the real and financial sectors. It took 5 years for the
operating anomalies among the PFIs to be completely eliminated. PICIC received
deposit taking powers only in 1989. Recurring political interference in
managerial appointments and credit decisions of PFIs have adversely affected
in a material way their financial performance and soundness. The resulting
management instability and absence of professional motivation and commitment
have exacerbated disruptions in both strategic and crisis management efforts.
Additionally, the disruptions have created discontinuities in Bank-borrower
relationship. Notwithstanding their generally regular submission, the
reliability of financial reports submitted by the PFIs is subject to question,
especially in terms of income/expense recognition and provisioning, due, in
large part to the absence of internationally accepted accounting and auditing
standards.
I. Lessons and Recommendations
9.01     For Bank Performance. Future credits should be reinforced by systemic
reforms, through FSAL and related programs, that specifically address the
elements jeopardizing PFIs' sustainability. In an institutional restructuring
process involving financially-distressed PFIs which are wholly or
substantially government-owned, it is necessary but not sufficient to rely on:
collection targets and efforts; strengthening of internal management, systems
and appraisal/supervision capability; business diversification; and supportive
policy reforms. There are at least three additional prerequisites for
effective results (para.3.04): (i) measures to achieve full autonomy, such as
privatization; (ii) the application of prudential regulations governing income
recognition, provisioning, capital adequacy, and loan concentration; and (iii)
the existence of a credible national accounting and audit/supervision
standards and framework based on international standards. Without prudential
regulations and rigid accounting/auditing standards, financial covenants and
indicators become highly unreliable benchmarks during implementation (para.
4.05). Risk assessment in future SARs should appropriately address not just
the risks that affect the channelling of credit. Consideration should be given
to the current and future creditworthiness of the PFIs themselves since this
6 As compared to Bank guidelines of 5 to 10 days.



- 10 -
issue materially affects project sustainability. Therefore, accounting and
auditing requirements, based on internationally acceptable standards, must be
consistently insisted upon, both at the national and at the entity levels.
9.02     Bank effectiveness and the amount of staff time devoted during
implementation were directly affected by the Borrower's adverse behavior,
among others. Rather than taking GOP control of PFIs as a given constraint,
the Bank could have spelled out more definitive measures to ensure greater
autonomy. Bank leverage can be effective if exercised even after commitment
of loans/credits (para. 7.01), if other initiatives applied in earnest fail.
While end-users might be prejudiced, the Government should assume
responsibility for noncompliance.
9.03     To facilitate adequate appraisal and supervision, it would be ideal
to emphasize Bank access to all relevant information on the operations and
status of all PFIs, including NCBs (para. 3.04). If necessary, the Bank's
General Conditions may be invoked to require the submission of relevant
information. However, cognizance is made of the fact that invoking drastic
action is feasible only if defined covenants are operative. It would also be
useful to have a standard form for tracking a time series on financial
covenants and indicators (para. 7.02). Significant deviations in TA requests
during implementation should be reviewed on a projectwide basis to optimize
results and reduce possibilities for abuse (para. 4.07). Bank time utilized in
reviewing a large number of small TA ticket items may be released for some
other urgent tasks by possibly delegating items below a cutoff point to the
Resident Mission. The Resident Mission in Pakistan was informally assigned
this task but the delegation of authority was never formalized. Accordingly,
the Resident Mission exercised caution, resulting in the Head Office carrying
out this responsibility substantially.
9.04     For Borrower Performance.  There are important lessons for borrower
performance: (i) It is important to explicitly stipulate in an appropriate
PFI document, such as the Policy Statement, the transparency, rules, and
safeguards relating to insider transactions, especially loans to directors and
other related interests (para. 4.05). (ii) The benefits of TA grants will be
enhanced by circulating non-proprietary components, such as sub-sector
studies, to other PFIs and parties that can benefit from them as instruments
for improving market knowledge (para. 4.02). (iii) Due consideration might be
given to the possibility of tenured positions or management contracts to
ensure managerial continuity, without prejudice to sanctions or disincentives
in case of shortcomings relative to defined performance standards (para. 8.01)
(iv) PFIs should welcome, or preferably initiate, merger prospects with other
entities, if this move represents the only sound basis for sustained survival
and growth (para. 6.02). (v) The GOP cannot expect PFIs to succeed as
financial institutions if it requires them to perform non-financial and non-
economic activities.



PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                                          Date of      Status/
Title                Purpose                       Approval    Comments
Ln 2648/Cr 1646-PAK        To assist the GOP develop the             proj. closing
Second Industrial Invest- capital market, improve cre-               ahead of
ment Credit (IIC II)    dit delivery for industrial                12/31/92
finance and continue institu-            target, but
tion building for PFIs        1/07/86   disbs. lag
Ln 3019/Cr 1982-PAK        To assist the GOP hasten the              12/31/94
Third Industrial Invest-  growth of equity markets,                  closing; pro-
ment Credit (IIC III)   improve credit delivery for                commitments
industrial finance, address              ahead but
corporate finance issues and             disbs. lag
assist PFIs diversify         1/31/89
Loan 3029-PAK             To assist the GOP in financial             12/31/90
Financial Sector          sector reforms: gearing cre-               closing
Adjustment Loan         dit allocation to market sig-              extended;
nals, improving health and                slow imple-
efficiency of banking system,             mentation;
and creating more efficient               2nd trance
Government debt system        04/14/89   release
pending ful-
fillment of
conditions
Credit 1499-PAK           To promote investments in                  06/30/91
Second Small Scale        promising SSI subsectors and               closing
Industry Project        improve productivity of                   extended to
(SSI II)                existing SSI units             06/14/84   06/30/91;
deteriorated
collections
Loan 2839-PAK             To provide SSI financing,                  12/31/95
Third Small Scale         expand PCIs' SSI funding                   closing;
Industry Project        capabilities, and develop                 NCBs prefer
(SSI III)               export marketing system        06/16/87   larger
clients; com-
petition from
subsidized
credits



- 12 -
2.   Proiect Timetable
Date            Date               Date
Item                     Planned         Revised            Actual
-  Identification                                                       03/82
-  Preparation                                                          12/82
- Appraisal Mission                                                  03/01/83
- Loan/Credit
Negotiations                   10/83             11/83            11/28/83-
12/02/83
- Board Approval                  12/83             01/84            02/02/84
- Loan/Credit Signature                                              02/27/84
- Loan/Credit
Effectiveness             05/31/84                              04/26/84
- Loan/Credit Closing          12/31/87          12/31/88 &
12/31/89            12/31/90
- Loan Account Closing                                               04/30/91
Comments:   The Pre-Appraisal Mission scheduled for March 1, 1983 served as
the Appraisal Mission. Considering that the project was the first multi-
institutional package introduced in Pakistan, loan effectiveness was more than
a month ahead of schedule. Recurring cancellations of commitments for
subprojects caused delays in the closing, prompting three extensions before
the final closing date. There were a total of 30 cancelled projects compared
to 51 finally committed. The Bank advised the PFIs to carefully ensure that
subloan commitments would be in place to meet the scheduled closing, but
factors beyond the control of both the Bank and the PFIs came into play. These
external elements included: low interest rates in international markets and
access by entrepreneurs to these sources; subsidized long-term credits made
available by the GOP; tapering off on industrial investments; and disruptions
caused by managerial, strategic and operational changes within PFIs.



- 13 -
3.   Loan/Credt  Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Forina I ly
Fiscal           Actual SAt.      Profile PAt.      Revised SAt.    Original Amt.    Revised Ant.
Year            Cumulative       Cumulative        Cumulative       Cumulativ         Cumulative
1984
Sep. 1983
Dec.  1983
Mar. 1984                                                                                  .06
Jun.  1984               .12                                                               .12
Sep. 1984                .21                                                               .21
Dec. 1984                .47              .29                            9.70              .47
Mar.  1985              2.31              .48                           28.40             2.31
Jun.  1985              8.63             5.13                           45.70             8.63
Sep.  1985             10.60             9.68                           59.00            10.60
Dec.  1985             21.68            15.50                           72.30            21.68
Mar.  1986             24.90            21.31                           84.60            24.90
Jun.  1986             35.77            30.99                           94.90            35.77
Sep.  1986             45.70            40.68                          100.00            45.70
Dec.  1986             53.28            50.36                          100.00            53.28
Mar.  1987             58.29            60.05                          100.00            58.29
Jun. 1987              62.74            65.86                          100.00            62.74
Sep.  1987             65.83            71.67                                            65.83
Dec.  1987             70.11            75.54                                            70.11
Mar.  1988             72.51            79.41                                            72.15
Jun.  1988             79.00            81.35                                            78.64
.1989
Sep.  1988             80.95            83.29                                            80.59
Dec. 1988              84.68            85.23                                            84.32
Mar.  1989             86.78            87.16                                            86.42
Jun.  1989             87.61            89.10                                            87.41
L2Q
Sep.  1989             88.62            91.04                                            88.42
Dec.  1989             89.24            92.01                                            89.04
Mar.  1990             90.86            92.97                                            90.66
Jun.  1990             94.80            93.94                                            95.66
1991
Sep.  1990             97.00            94.91                                            97.66
Dec.  1990            100.25            95.88                                           100.00
Mar.  1991            102.97            96.85
Jun.  1991            102.98            96.85



- 14 -
4.   Project Implementation: Selected Financial Indicators   (IIC Project)
Covenant          1984   1987  1990
PICIC
DSCR                                      1.1 minimum         1.2    1.2   1.4
DER                                       7:1 maximum        4.9    4.2   4.0
Portfolio infection                          N.A.             32%    15%   14%
Total collection ratio                       N.A.             37%    47%   78%
IDBP
DSCR                                      1.1 minimum      n.a.    1.5(a) 1.2
DER                                       5:1 maximum(b)  4.2       4.1    5.1
Portfolio infection                          N.A.           52%      37%   37%
Total collection ratio                       N.A.           37%      55%   n.a.
NDFC
DSCR                                      1.1 minimum       n.a.   5.8   6.5
DER                                       5:1 maximum(b)  3.8    7.7(c) 5.9
Portfolio infection                          N.A.             5%    n.a.  15%
Total collection ratio                       N.A.            64%    65%   85%
N.A. - not applicable       n.a. - not available
(a) The figure was reported in the 02/05/87 supervision report.
(b) This limit was later raised to 7:1.
(c) This excess was corrected by equity infusion.
Notes: (1) At PCR preparation time, questions were raised about the actual
DERs reported for PICIC and NDFC as these differed substantially from
independent computations. (2) Collection targets in absolute amounts were
defined as covenants and substantially met according to supervision reports,
but data from the files are spotty.
Sources of data: SARs, supervision reports, and the DFIs. Where there was a
conflict of data, the SARs and supervision reports were utilized.



- 15 -
5. Project Results: Studies
Purpose as
Defined at
Studies                  Appraisal             Status          Impact of Study
PICIC
Corporate Strategy    Strategic and
diversification                       Useful in PICIC's
moves                Completed         diversification
Export Finance            - do -             - do                 - do -
IDBP
Subsector studies
(steel, builder
substance, hydrogen                                        Usefulness con-
peroxide, sodium    Guide IDBP's asset                      fined to IDBP
silicate, and dyes) rationalization       Completed
NDFC
Subsector studies
(polypropylene       Guide NDFC's asset                     Usefulness con-
and chemical)         rationalization      Completed         fined to NDFC
HBL
None



- 16 -
6. Status of Covenants
Name of PFI/                                  Com-
Legal Basis       Covenant Description       pliance           Remarks
1. Under IIC I
Minutes of tech-
nical discussions
of 11/28/83-
12/02/83
PICIC            - DSCR: 1.1:1 min.           OK    Questions raised about
compliance computations
after loan/credit closing.
- DER: 7:1 max.
- Collection targets               Deficiencies noted in
for CY1983-85             OK    actual performance but
progress was deemed
acceptable.
IDBP            - DSCR: 1.1:1 min.            OK    Nominally complied,
although breached in
the past.
- DER:  5:1 max.             OK
- Collection targets               Almost nominally met
for FY1984-86             OK    but the Bank expressed
concern about rising
arrears. Serious deterio-
ration later prompted
ineligibility.
NDFC             -' DSCR: 1.1:1 min.          OK
- DER:  5:1 max.             OK    Questions raised about
but could be raised              compliance computations
to 7:1 at NDFC's                 after closing.
request                    OK
- Collection targets:
none                      N.A.
NCBs             - No financial covenants    N.A.   The DSCR and D/E covenants
were not deemed appro-
priate; reliance was
placed on liquidity and
and operational ratios as
monitored by PBC.
Note: The date of the PCR preparation was used as the benchmark date for
determining compliance with IIC I covenants. N.A. - not applicable



- 17 -
Name of PFI/                                         Com-
Legal Basis              Covenant Description    pliance            Remarks
2. Under IIC II
Minutes of tech-
nical discussions
of 10/29/85-
11/05/85
PICIC          Eligibility Criteria
- DSCR: 1.15:1 min.
in FY86 & 1.2:1 thence        OK
- DER: 7:1 max.
(special def. of debt)        OK
- Return on average
equity: 12% min.
Collection targets               OK
for FY86-90:
Cash collections: fr.
Rs. 575 to 1000 million   OK
Total collections: fr.
40 to 60%                   OK
Coll. of current dues under
post '81 loans:
75% throughout              OK
Portfolio infection:
fr. 30% to 20% max.         OK
Viability Indicators
- Return on ave. total
assets: 2% min.               OK
- Return on ave. capital             Initially complied with;
employed: 2.25% min.          OK  later declared ineligible
- Adm. exps./ave. total              but was reinstated in
portfolio: 1% max.            OK  07/90.
IDBP           Eligibilitv Criteria
- DSCR: 1.15:1 min.
in FY86 & 1.2:1 thence        OK
- DER: max. 7:1
(special def. of debt)         OK
- Return on average
equity: min. 12%              OK   Computations include provi-
sions as part of profit.
Collection targets
for FY86-FY90:
Cash collections: fr.
Rs. 500 to 1000 M          ACT   Noncompliance is traced to
Total collections: fr.            the highly problematic



- 18 -
40% to 65%                 ACT   portfolio of IDBP (see
Coll. of current dues:            paras. 1.02, 3.02, 4.05,
75% throughout            ACT   and 6.02 of the PCR text).
Portfolio infection:              Ineligible.
fr. 40% to 15% max.      ACT
Viability Indicators
- Return on ave. total
assets: 1.2% min.           ACT
- Return on ave. capital              Partial compliance:
employed: 1.25% min.         OK    declared ineligible
- Adm. exps./ave. total                later due to failure
portfolio: 1.2% max.        ACT    to meet covenants
NDFC           Eligibility Criteria
- DSCR: 1.25:1 min.            OK
- DER: 5:1 max.
(requested increase
to 7:1 to be reviewed
based on FY86 results)       OK
- Return on average
equity: 20% min.             n.a.
Collection Targets
for FY85-90:
Cash collections: fr.
70% to 80%                   OK
Overall collections:
fr. 75% to 85%               OK
Portfolio infection:
20% max.                     OK
Satisfactory arrears
recovery/restruct.
program                      OK
Viability Indicators
- Return on ave. earning
assets: 2.5% min.            OK
- Adm. exps./ave. total
portfolio: 1% max.           OK
NCBs           - No DSCR/DER  covenants              The DSCR and D/E covenants
(audit satisfactory          N.A.  were not deemed appropriate;
to the Bank)                       reliance was placed on
liquidity and operational
ratios as monitored by PBC
Collection Targets
for Bank-financed
projects: 75% min.
HBL                         ACT   Breached '90; inelig. '91
UBL                         ACT   Breached '89; inelig. '89
portfolio infection:
15% max.
HBL                         OK
UBL                        ACT   Ineligible in 1989



- 19 -
Notes: (a) N.A. - not applicable
n.a. - not available
ACT - needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
(b) Noncompliance with collection targets by NCBs is traced to the
inherent risks in project financing, as discussed in paras. 4.04
and 6.02 of the PCR text.
Name of PFI/                                 Com-
Legal Basis        Covenant Description    pliance           Remarks
3. Under IIC III
Loan Agreement
of 02/1/89
PFIs         Eligibility Criteria
For PICIC and IDBP only:
- Satisfactory diversi-
fication program
- satisfactory plan for
treatment of non-
performing assets
For DFIs only:
- DSCR: min. 1.2:1
PICIC                OK
IDBP                ACT          Ineligible
NDFC                 OK
- DER: max. 7:1
PICIC                OK
IDBP                 OK
NDFC                 OK
Min. cash collection ratio
For each NCB: 80% of
current dues
HBL                 ACT
UBL                 ACT           The application of pruden-
MCB                n.a.           tial regulations and capi-
NBP                n.a.           tal adequacy tests would
For NDFC: 85% of current dues  OK  create eligibility uncer-
For IDBP: 75% of current dues        tainties that are being
in FY89 and 80% in FY90       ACT  addressed.
For PICIC: 80% of current
dues under post-'81 loans      OK



- 20 -
7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of                                                                    Staff
Project Cycle                               Period                          Weeks
Up to Preparation                            FY83                           27.9
Preparation through Approval                 FY83-84                        46.4
Negotiations                                 FY84                            7.4
Processing                                   FY83-84                        15.9
Project Administration                       FY84-86                         2.2
Supervision                                  FY83-91                        57.7
PCR Preparation                              FY92                            8.0 1/
Total                                 165.5
1/ Budgetary estimate.
Notes: The regional average coefficient for sector loan project is normally
125 staff weeks, which is below the estimated 165.5 staffweeks for IIC I. The
figure of 57.7 staff weeks for supervision is below the budgetary norm, given
the assumed normal frequency of two supervision missions per year and 12
staffweeks of supervision coefficient. It appears that the staff time devoted
to preparation up to approval was higher than normal in the light of the
controversy that the project initially generated.



- 21 -
B. Missions
Overall
Activity         Period/    No. of  Days in  Project           Comments
Report Date  Persons  Field   Rating
Identifi-      03/82         N.A.    N.A.       N.A.  Project's design discussed
cation                                              within the context of the
overall findings of the
Financial Sector Review.
Prepara-     12/01/82-
tion       12/22/82           4 1/    21      N.A.  Coverage: industrial and
financial sector reviews;
project design.
Pre-Apprai-  03/01/83-
sal        03/19/83/          7 Z/    18      N.A.  Progress achieved in re-
12/30/83                                viewing term lenders; pro-
ject arrangements and
issues defined; mission
converted into appraisal
mission.
Post-
Appraisal 08/14/83-
08/30/83/         2       14      N.A.  DFIS lobby against inclu-
12/30/83                                sion of NCBs; GOP reserva-
tions about inclusion of
NCBs; compromise that the
Bank will limit supervision
of NCBs to term lending.
Supervision 08/17/84-
08/26/84/          2         3      1   Satisfactory progress
10/15/84                                noted; project ahead of
schedule; all PFIs except
PICIC show operational and
appraisal improvements;
need for extensive supervi-
sion of PICIC and IDBP
due to problem portfolios.
Supervision 01/08/85-
01/27/85/          3         5      1   5 PFIs eligible; highly
03/12/85                                satisfactory implementa-
tion; competition and



- 22 -
better PFI services;
PICIC and IDBP show notable
improvements in collections
and infection, and diversi-
fy into money market opera-
tions; NDFC expands but
shows deterioration in
appraisal standards; HBL
and UBL highly regarded.
Supervision 10/11/86-
10/21/86/          3         5      2   Slowed implementation due
02/05/87                                to external factors; TA
proceeding well; credit
delivery system working
well; low collections a
source of continued
concern; PICIC and IDBP
commission organization
and diversification
studies; HBL and UBL port-
folio problems become
evident.
Supervision 03/24/89-
04/07/89/          4         5      2   Subloan cancellations
05/24/89                                prompt extended closing;
management turnover at
PFIs and GOP interference
impact negatively; PICIC
and IDBP delayed in imple-
menting diversification
moves, in violation of
Bank agreement; IDBP also
in violation of financial
covenants under IIC
projects; NCBs perform
well but subject to
management turnover.
Supervision 10/20/89-
11/03/89/          4         5      2   Similar observations as
11/29/89                                in 05/24/89 report; PICIC
DSCR and collection ratios
drop below covenants; 2
PICIC directors viewed as
willful defaulters; IDBP
suffers liquidity problem;
IDBP remains ineligible;
growing arrears problem
for other PFIs.



- 23 -
Supervision 03/26/90-
04/04/90/          2        3     2   Three-year delay in
04/26/90                              closing; management turn-
over and GOP interference
impacted negatively; PICIC
declared ineligible under
IIC II and III, subject
to review; IDBP prospects
doubtful; NDFC stretched;
UBL declared ineligible
under IIC II.
/  In addition, the Division Chief joined the mission for 4 days.
2/! In addition, the Division Chief joined the mission for 2 days.
Note: Where there were multiple projects covered in a given supervision
report, the time allotment for IIC I was accordingly prorated. This estimation
methodology was used in the absence of an alternative existing Bank mechanism.
Please note, however, that this estimation process yields an aggregate
supervision manpower input materially higher than the figure shown in the
immediately previous table on "Staff Inputs" derived from MIS data. This
discrepancy is partly explained by TRS recording discrepancies vis-a-vis: (a)
the actual time spent in the field; and (b) the estimation methodology used
above.



- 24 -
Annex 1
PAKISTAN
Project Completion Report
First Industrial Investment Credit
Sectoral Allocation
(Percentage Distribution & No. of Projects)
DF Is                                     NCBs
Total          PIO                             NOFC             HSL      NCSs
Subsector           AmI    No        Amt    No       Amt   No        Amt   No        Amt   No        Amt    No
Textile                  32    16        62    12        14     2        4      1        29    1
Paper, paper
products & printing  16         4        -      -      20      1       32      1        33    2         -      -
Food products &
processing              20      8       16     3       41      3       13      1        11    1
Engineering               7      7        -              9      1       38      3        20    2        100    1
Chemical &
petrochemicaLs           8      6       19     5         -              6      1          -    -               -
Cement, cermic &
gtass                    2     4         1      1       5      1        9      2         -    -                -
AgricuL. & forest
products                 4     4         2      1      11      2        -                6    1         -
Minerals                  9      -        -      -           -               -          -         -     -
MisceLLaneous             1      2        -      -        -              4      2             -      -          -
Totat             100    51       100    2        100    10      100    11         100    7        100    1
Source of basic data: Bank records



Annex 2
PAKIStAN
Project Cmpltion *eport
first irsatrisl Iwvestment Credit
Ex-Ante Profile of StAWrojects
Tit.o
PfI                                                                    Jdb  at                         rm*mment   fInanel   New vs.    lw tmntI ts                                     of
Sm           Sib-Borrowers             Subt*Ctor      IEN  flkS    Full Ce.  D/E   DtCt                Strength     of Sposure   Existing   (. milli.er                    Appraisel Report
PICIC   Shsksrgsnj Nille             ChmIcal            V.A     34         N.A.    50:50         2.2    Experlenced   Adeate        Exieting         26      only gt_nry with Ink launs
PICIC   Automotive Sattery           Clmlcel            42      25         I"      T0:30           2    Experlenced   Adqete        New              56      AdeqLate with **  issues
PiCIC   lextoriuI Ltd.               Textite-other      20      IS         110      u3:11        1.h    Experlenced   Adequate      new             112      Adeqate with Bnk issues
PICIC   Pakistan Polypropylen        Chemical           41      20         -0-     60:40         1.4    Experiemned   Aderate       Existing         20      Ader=te
PICIC   teckitt k Colt_n             food               50     4U           22     59:61        11.8    Experlenced   Adequate      Exsltin          it      Ad t
PICIC   Zehur Textile                textile-cotton    25       22         130     00:20         2.2   Exprlenced   Adequte         New              91      Adeate with Eank lsasLr
PICIC   Surewala lextiles            Textile-cotton    N.A      l.A         0      56:44         4.1    Experienced   Adequte       Existing         55      Adeate
PICIC   Amin Synthetics              Ch_mical           37     It          15e6     0:40         1.6    Experlenced   Adequate      New             63       Adeqate
PICIC   English Biscuit              food               50      22          *5     66:32         4.1   Experienced   Adequate       Existing         29      Adeute
PICIC   Star lextite                 Textile-cotton    N.A      N.A         40     69:31         2.3    Experlenced   A     t       Existing         43      Adquate
PICIC  $Srene Textiles               Textite-other      4?      24         46      65:35         2.1   Experienced   Adquat          ow              U       Adequate
PICIC   Crescent Textile             lextile-cotton    N.A.    1.A         l.A.    53:47         5.2   Eerlenced   Adequate         Existing         49      Adeqate
PICIC   Jetol Foods                  food               32      25         130     5:            1.6  Limited exper.  Ade"te        Sew            MI        Ade 'ate
PICIC   Ovta Textile                 Textile-cotton    26       17         N.A.    71:29         3.5   Eprlenced   Adaquate         Exliting         14      Ade te
ID1     Pak Selt                     Agrit. A Forest   e        30          70     67:33         2.3   Exriened   Adequate          New              33      Adequatte
iow     AI-Axlf Suwar                Food               19      is         8o9     65:           1.6   Experilamd   Ada"te,         Nw              346
I1P    Al-Neyst Dairiee              food               25      30          97     79:21         4.0    Experienced   Adte          Sew              oo      Adeute
19    Big Miak Foode                 Food               40      23          00     79:21         1.3 J  ustioneble   Adeqte         Sew             5S       Defi c1nt on _npnt. ineysis
leow    Sind Glass                   Glass              I?     1          3"   nl 23            1.5    Experlenced   Limited         W             222       eficient
IlUO    Punial Cables                Engin ering        15      26          92     6o:20         1.o  Limited esper. Limited        SeW             119      Deficient In tktng.q           tin nclet
IMP    Cloroe  Textiles              lextile-cotton    33       32         132     61:39         2.9  limited e*per.  UrInau        New             133      Adeute with  me sBtk Issues
low     Service Indtutries           Agric. A forest   10       16          21     60:40         3.6    Experleneed   Adequate      Existing         29      Deficient en mkt. 9 prod. aspects
Iop    Setimntal Woolen              Textile-others    I.A      32         N.A.   60:40          2.2        N.A       s.A           Existing         34      NO textua IU tysia: only date
IDU     Century                      Papr               20      21          de-    tSO15         1.5    Experimned  Adeqte          Stw             306      Adutten fin. 2 tech, issues
IFC    Crescent Steel                 Englneering       le      25          62     *5:15         2.4      tUtnoewn    Inot          Sew             165      Ad t  with  unk leesn
DtC    Alltin Engineer                Engineering       16      22         N.A.    75:25         2.4   ExperI end   Adequate       Existing         30      Deficient In neltyis eot akt E firniellsxeco
efC    footilb Ltd.                   NiscellaeoWua     N.A     r.A        N.A.    79:21         I.6    Experienced  La*nmon        Sew              3S      Only * swry report
DFC    Zesl Pak C_nt                  Cent              50      23           19    n5:25         4.6    Exrriened   Adqute          Existing        25S      Deilcient on technical mirketigq
IfC   flull fourdation                 per              14      21          69     57:43         2.0      Limited     Adequat       Sew             191      Adete except for tagmnt aspects
IDfC    D.I.Khn  uck  CGovEt.org.) Ceramic              1.A    *.A         N.A.    100I0 Ao.7            tliIted      We k          Se               19      Deficient In  et    ect
IFC    Precisien Engineering          Englneering       1.A     *.A         47     30:20         S.A      Limited     Week          Sew              IZ      enly sairy report bxut deficient
IfC    Req Dairies                   food               16      19          as     78:22         1.9    Experienced  tUknown        Sew              62      Adeq. extept for finenisla of sponsors
*FC      ronars Corp.                 Nisceetn          16      51          sY     80:20         3.1      Limited    UknkeWn        Sew              17      Snr  report only
DFC    teer Broas                     Chmicel           34      31         N.A.   59:41          5.0    Experienced  Adequate       Existing         Si      Adqute
"Sal    Amaeios                      food               IS      20         121     00:20         1.6    Experlenced   Adate           W              54      Adte: Well prented
IIU     Century                      Ppr                20      21         445     15:15         1.5    Experlenced  Adequate       Sew             306      Adte with fin  6 t          issue
ML      Agriunt                      Engineering        22      16         422     S9:41         1.7    Eprlenced   Adequat         Exiatin         109      Ad te wexept for no IEtt
Ibt     lletlenttl AdeegIv,          Paper              2?      22          45    60:40         2 2    Experi need  Adequate        SeW             26       Adaute
NK      feres foods                  Agric. I Forest  26         0          S2        10:30     I17   Experieced   Ade              S                39      Adeqttte
Ui      Gets Aumtive_               EIngineeIng         50      20         104     70:30         1.0   Experienced  Adte            Sew              39     adte (conratuted)
_       a_r Cottotn                  Textile-cotton    30       10         299     65:35         1.4    Experienced  Adeqate        Se t33                   Adeacte
UK      Atles Autee                  Enginteerin        24      26          91     77:23         2.4    Experinced   Ad te          Existin          65      A46quote with 6t  issues
Notees:  at)  rlde finatg Is trated as dubt for pjPoees Of ctAting the DE ratio.
tb) N.A. * not *pticMbte or talatbte



