Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4637-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
December 30, 1983
Industrial Development & Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C_RRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$1           = Rs 12.7
Rs I           = US,$ 0.0787
ABBREVIATIONS USED
AML       Allied Bank Limited
ADB       Asian Development Bank
ADBP      Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
BEL       Banker's Equity Limited
TFIs      Development Finance Institutions
DSCR      Debt Service Coverage Ratio
EPF       Equity PartiLcipation Fund
FBC       Federal Bank for Cooperatives
GOP       Government of Pakistsn
HBL       Habib Bank Limited
ICP       Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP      Industrial Development Bank of Pak:istan
IIC       Industrial lnvestment Credit
MCB       Muslim COommercial Rank
NBP       National. Bank of Pakistan
NCBs      National. Conmmercial Banks
NDFC      National. Development Finance Corporation
NIT       National Investment Trust
PBC       Pakistan Bainking Council
PICIC     Pakistan Indlustrial Credit and Investment Corporation
PFIs      Participating Financial Institutions
PPCB      Punjab Provincial CooDerative Bank
PSEs      Public Sector Enterprises
SALs      Structural Adjustment Loans
SBFC      Small Business Finance Corporation
SBP       State Bank of Pakistan
SFYP      Sixth Fi,ve Year Plan - FY83-FYV7
TJRL      United PBank Limited



FOR OFFICIAI, USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PROJECT SUMMARY           ............................................    iii-iv
I.    INTRODUCTION ........... , . .....                                          1
II.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR . ...................... . . . .  .                   2
A. Economic Setting  ......................... ... .....                   2
B. Industrial Structure and Performance   3......... ..........            3
C. Industrial Strategy and the Sixth Five-Year Plan    ........            3
D. Prospects *.............................o...o...                        5
III.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR   ....................    .. . ...... ........         6
A. Background ...          ..                      - ......... . . .       6
B. Structure of the Financial System .......................               6
C. Industrial Finance ............... o .......................            9
D. Policy Framework ..........          .............................     11
IV.   THE PROJECT  ...........................                    .      .       13
A. Lending Strategy .........................................             13
B. Project Objectives ........................... .........               15
C. Strengthening Credit Delivery for Industry ......... .......           15
D. Technical Assistance ...............     .. . .......                  16
E. Project Cost, Components and Financing Plan ............O..            17
V.   PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFIs)            .................   17
A. Participating NCBs .......... .....                                    17
B. Participating DFIs ..........  ..........   ....................       18
C. Summary Eligibility Criteria .............................             23
VI.   THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT .............................. O.             24
A. Amount and Allocation of Funds ...........................             24
B. Financial Package       .      .. * ..    .      ...............       25
C. Administration .        . ..................................... .      26
VII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ... ....................        .... .. .       27
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS ......................                    . ..........     28
This report was prepared by Messrs. Dalla, Bannon, Groves, Pernia, Vivado,
and Van Bakel (consultant) following an appraisal mission to Pakistan in
March 1983. Mr. H. Qureshi from the Resident Mission participated in the
appraisal mission. The report was finalized after the visit of a post-
appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Dalla and Groves in August 1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.    The Commercial Banking System
2.    Islamization of Pakistan's Financial System
3.    Nationalized Commercial Banks
4.    The Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
5.    National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)
6.    The Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC)
7.    Pipeline of Projects
8.    Estimated Commitments and Disbursements Schedule
9.    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File



-iii-
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:              US$100 million (Loan of US$50 million and Credit of
SDR 47.3 million)
US$98.0 million for financing subloans; and
US$2.0 million for technical assistance.
Project              The proposed project aims at:  (a) financing industrial
Description:         projects in high-priority sectors through the financial
system; (b) improving the credit delivery system of
industrial finance; (c) strengthening the term lending
capability of the Participating Financing Institutions
(PFIs), especially commercial banks; and (d) continuing
the institution building programs for the development
finance institutions (DFIs).
Implementing        Three development finance institutions -- Industrial
Agencies:            Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), National Development
Finance Corporation (NDFC) and Pakistan Industrial Credit
and Investment Corporation (PICIC) and two commercial
banks (Habib Bank Limited (HBL) and United Bank Limited
(UBL)) under the supervision of the Pakistan Banking
Council (PBC).
Beneficiaries:       All productive activities in the private industrial
sector and related services will be eligible for
financing under the Project. The Bank/IDA funds will be
used to finance both fixed assets and permanent working
capital. Up to US$10 million is allocated for financing
balancing, modernization and rehabilitation of public
sector projects through NDFC.
Use of Loans and    One hundred percent of foreign exchange cost of direct
Credit Proceeds:    imports of goods and services and up to 60% of local
expenditures for the cost of locally procured goods
(corresponding to the estimated foreign exchange content
of these goods). Local currency financing will be made
available by participating financial institutions or the
sponsors.



- iv-
Onlending Terms:    (a) World Eank/IDA to Government of Pakistan (GOP):
Standard;
(b) GOP to PICIC and IDBP; interest rate of 10% p.a.
for 15 years including a grace period of 3 years;
(c) GOP to NDFC and NCBs; interest: rat:e of 11% p.a. up
to 15 years including a grace period of 3 years; and
(d) PFIs to Borrowers: 14% p.a.
Foreign Exchange
and Interest
Rate Risks:          GOP
Subloan Limits:      Maximum per project:  US$4.0 million
Minimum per project: US$1.0 million
(Exceptions would be considered on a case-by-case basis.)
Technical            Up to US$2.0 million for training of FPFIs' officers in
Assistance:          project evaluation, preparation of project appraisal
manuals, and other related activities, organization and
system studies, and sectoral studies.



PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Since 1977, GOP has given greater emphasis to the role of the private
sector. This change is reflected in GOP's decisions to: divest a number of
industrial units nationalized in 1972; open restricted industries to private
investment; limit further investment in public sector manufacturing
enterprises to balancing, modernizing or rehabilitation, and increase
domestic resources for investment in private industry. These actions have
been complemented by liberalization measures including revision of investment
sanctioning requirements, enhanced investment and export incentives, and
removal of a number of controls which had constrained industrial development.
As a result there has been a significant increase in the level of private
investment and in the performance of private sector units. However, wlhile
GOP's actions have helped improve private sector performance, there are a
number of policy and procedural areas where further action is necessary if
GOP's own plans for a greater contribution by the private sector to the
economy are to be achieved (Chapter II).
1.02    The Project.  The proposed project addresses a number of the issues
affecting industrial financing, and seeks to improve the efficiency with
which funds for industrial investment are delivered by focussing on both the
system and individual institutions. The project's scope would extend beyond
the Bank Group's traditional contacts--the development banks--for industrial
term lending by including two major commercial banks as participating
financial institutions. The Project would incorporate a program to
strengthen the appraisal and supervision capabilities of these institutions
and to continue the action programs initiated under earlier Bank Group
assisted projects for two development financing institutions (DFIs)--the
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) and the Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). The Project would build on the
work of the Bank Group's FY82 Financial Sector Mlission which identified the
need to address, inter alia, overlapping operations of the DFIs and
weaknesses in the term lending operations of the commercial banking system.
This report outlines a US$250 million project with foreign exchange
requirements of US$100 million, of which it is proposed that US$50 million be
provided by IBRD and US$50 million (SDR 47.3 million) by IDA. The Project
has two components: US$98 million to meet part of the foreign exchange
credit requirements of industry; and US$2 million in a technical assistance
component to help meet the desired policy and institutional objectives. The
proposed Project forms an integral part of the Bank Group's lending program
of possible future SALs, sector credits and project loans aimed at greater
private sector involvement in industry, improved efficiency of the public
sector enterprises and expanded export orientation of Pakistan's industry.
1.03    Other Bank Group Operations.  Over the past few years, the Bank Group
has had a substantial involvement with GOP on industrial development through
policy dialogue and lending operations. Under the Structural Adjustment



-2-
Program (Ln. 2166-PAY and Cr. 3255-PAK), priority has been given to the
reform of the incentive structure and improve-ments in the efficiency of the
public manufacturing sector. Improvements in the provision of infrastructure
necessary for industrial develcpment are being supported through ongoing and
proposed projects in the energy, water, telecommunications and transportation
sectors, while some initial improvements in the credit delivery system for
industrial finance are being pursued through the proposed Project.  During
FY82, Bank Group staff completed a review of the financial system and, at the
request of GOP, undertook a number of industrial subsector studies to provide
input for the Sixth Five-Year Plan, FY83-FY87 (SFYP) and COP's FY84 budget.
In the immediate future, policies for the promotion of manufacture exports
will be reviewed.
1.04    To complement the ongoing policy dialogue, the BarLk Group has made
14 loans and credits totalling US$354 million for project investment in the
private industrial (manufacturing) sector. Eleven loans and credits
totalling US$274 million have been made to PICIC for onlending to medium- and
large-scale private sector projects. Three loans and crecits totalling
US$80 million have been made to IDBP to provide term loans directly and
through commercial banks to a large number of small scale industrial
projects. In addition, a line of credit of US$30 mil:Lion has been channeled
through the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) for large-scale
projects in the public manufact:uring sector. Under each of these operations,
technical assistance has been provided to strengthen institutional capacity
and project promotion activities.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01    In 1977, GOP embarked on a program of reforms to achieve financia:L
stability and the revival of economic growth and private sector confidence.
Despite generally adverse external circumstances, considerable progress has
been made toward meeting these obiectives. GOP has restored financial
discipline and, through improved fiscal performance, has reduced considerably
reliance of the banking system on borrowing from the State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP), the central bank. Improved financial management has been combined
with a wide range of price adjustments aimed at correcting economic
distortions, and a program of lDnger-term reforms in key productive sectors.
As a result of these actions, GDP has grown at an average rate of over 6%
p.a., accompanied by a gradual reduction in domestic inflation, a higher
degree of private sector confidence and, since FY80, a manageable balance of
payments situation.  Improved eronomic performance has been broad-based wi.th
high growth in industry, agriculture, energy and exports.
2.02    The major constraints facing Pakistan's economy relate to its balance
of payments prospects and the need to increase domestic private and public
savings. Bank projections indicate that beyond FY85, Pakistan will require
considerable improvements in export and import substitution performance if-
GDP growth of 6% is to be maintained. The same applies to resource
mobilization where severe restraints on current and capital expenditures,
required over the past years to meet the GOP's objective of fiscal discip:Line
are now causing considerable difficulties in thie face of expansionary



-3-
pressure for higher GOP allocations.  Without a substantial resource
mobilizatior effort, it will be difficult for GOP to meet the expenditures on
economic and social infrastructure implied by a 6% growth in GDP.
B. Industrial Structure and Performance
2.03    In FY82 industry 1/ accounted for about 23% of GDP and employed 19%
of the economically active population. Ilanufactured and semi-manufactured
products accounted for 55% of total exports, of which textiles accounted for
40'%- Textiles and food processing industries, which are estimated to account
for more than half of manufacturing value added; other maior sectors are
engineering and chemicals. In large scale industry, public sector
enterprises (PSEs) produce about 15/% of value added and monopolize or have
substantial shares in a number of key industries (cement, fertilizers,
chemicals and heavy engineering).
2.04    During the 1970s, GOP nationalized a large part of industry.  The
present Government, which took office in 1977, has taken measures to reverse
these policies giving the private sector a lead role in industrial
development by denationalizing most agricultural processing and a few
industrial units; introducing a constitutional guarantee against
nationalization; widening areas open to the private sector; restricting
public sector industrial investment to the completion of ongoing projects and
necessary marginal investment in existing plants; adopting a more liberal
trade policy; and introduced a range of exports and investment incentives.
As a result, real annual growth since FY77 averaged 9% for industrial value
added, 10% for private fixed industrial investment, 10% for manufactured
exports, and 4% for industrial employment.
C. Industrial Strategy and the Sixth Five-Year Plan (SFYP)
2.05    GOP's industrial strategy for the SFYP sustains the strategy and
policies pursued since 1977: a leading role for the private sector;
efficient import substitution; and rapid growth in exports. The Plan
envisages a continued removal of infrastructured bottlenecks; a substantial
increase in the output of engineering goods and reduced dependence on imports
in sectors such as cement, fertilizers and edible oils. The drive to expand
and diversify exports will focus on agro-based industries, with other sectors
such as engineering, and selected textiles making major contributions. The
Plan targets strong growth in the industrial sector. Real growth of
industrial output and value added is expected to be 9% p.a. Ilanufactured
exports are projected to grow by about 11% in real terms which would increase
the share of manufactured exports fron 55% to 64% of total exports by FY88.
Private industrial investment is projected to grow at 29% p.a. in terms and
22% in real terms. The ratio of industrial investment to GDP is projected to
increase from 4% in FY83 to 5.3% by FY88.
2.06    The success of the Plan's industrial strategy will depend, to a large
extent, on GOP'S ability to address weaknesses in industrial policy and
procedures including the incentive structure, industrial regulations and
1/ Including construction.



-4_
controls, the efficiency of PSEs, and infrastrijcture deficiencies.  The
system of incentives favors import substitution industries.  The tariff
structure requires rationalization to provide a more uniform degree of
effective protection, and industry is hampered by excessive bureaucratic
restrictions on investment: sanctioning, imports, access to foreign exchange,
company formation and pricing. Industries affected by price controls
(including cement, fertil:Lzers and petroleum refining) operate under "cost
plus" arrangements which cliscourage operational efficiency and energy
conservation. Industrial investment is affected by inefficiencies in the
financial delivery system and shortages of foreign exchange. Given the
expansion of private industrial investment envisaged in the Plan and the low
levels of corporate savings and self-financing in Pakistan, improvements in
the system of industrial .-inance will be an important complement to increase
productive efficiency for the attainment of Plan objectives. Except for the
completion of ongoing projects, GOP will requlire PSEs to initiate major
improvements in efficiencv and resource generation to meet most of their
investment needs through self-financing and commercial borrowing. However,
while PSE performance has improved in recent years, it remains constrairLed by
lack of autonomy at the enterprise level, the absence of performance-tied
incentives and low managerial salaries.  Infrastructure deficiencies
(including lack of water, roads, transport, and telecommunications) are a
major cause of project delays and impose substantial costs on industrial
efficiency. Over recent years, severe load-shedding of both gas and
electricity has disrupted industrial production and increased costs.
2.07    The Bank Group is supporting GOP's industrial strategy through its
SAL program, technical assistance and project lending.  The industrial
component of the current SAL program focuses on rationalizing industrial
incentives and improving the efficiency of the public manufacturing sector.
Under SAL I, GOP commissioned a comprehensive study of effective protection
to guide it in a simplification and reform of industrial incentives. Bank
Group financing of technical assistance is now being used to convert the
results of the study into a reform program and in develoiping institutional
capabilities to use effect:ive protection principles in incentive reform. For
public enterprises, the BaLnk Group is supporting the implementation of a
performance evaluation and incentive system to reward performance on the
basis of agreed targets. Deregulation will be incorporated in the focus of
future Industrial Sector Credits while the issue of "cost plus" pricing
highlighted in the Cement Subsector Report will be a key issue in the
proposed Cement Rehabilitation and Refinery Projects. Infrastructure
improvements are being implemented through ongoing projects, such as the
Fourth Telecommunications Project (Ln. 2122-PAX), Second Lahore Water Supply
Project (Cr. 630-PAK), Third Highways Project (Cr. 974-PAK), Lahore Urban
Development (Cr. 1348-PAK'i, Karachi Water Supply Project (Cr. 1374-PAK) and
proposed projects such as the Fourth WAPDA Power Project. Energy
conservation is being addressed through the Refinery Engineering and Energy
Efficiency Project, Fertilizer Rehabilitation Project and a proposed Cement
Rehabilitation Project. This proposed Project will help strengthen the
delivery system for industrial finance (para. 4.07).



-5-
D. Prospects
2.08    With the changed environment for private sector involvement and GOP's
policy of restricting public industrial investment (para. 2.04), since 1977
there has been a marked improvement in large-scale private industrial
investment. During FY77-FY82, large- and medium-scale private investment
grew at about 13% p.a. in real terms. Investment sanctions grew rapidly,
increasing from Rs 1.4 billion (US$110 million) in FY77 to Rs 9.4 billion
(US$740 million) in FY82, with cumulative investment of Rs 37.8 billion
(US$3.0 billion). However, the Investment Promotion Bureau estimates that
only 38% of these sanctions have been implemented due largely to serious
bottlenecks in infrastructural facilities and in the system of industrial
finance.
2.09    For the Sixth Plan period, GOP projects a substantial acceleration
of private industrial investment. Large-scale fixed private investment, of
about US$378 million in FY83, is projected to grow by 36% p.a. (28% in real
terms) during the Plan period. This compares with the average growth rate of
20% in nominal and about 9% in real terms during the first four years of the
Fifth Plan (FY78-FY82). Based on Plan assumptions, large-scale fixed private
investment for the next three years (FY84-86) is projected at US$2.1 billion,
of which about US$700 million would be in foreign exchange. However, even
assuming that large-scale fixed private investment increases at the current
average rate of 20%, the investment level would be about US$1.7 billion, with
US$600 million in foreign exchange. This assessment appears realistic and is
supported by the existing pipeline of projects of IDBP, NDFC and PICIC, which
together had pipelines of projects with foreign exchange requirements of
about US$316 million (Annex 7). The proposed project of US$100 million would
meet part of these requirements.
2.10    The financing plan for such an ambitious expansion in private
investment calls for foreign agencies to provide 34% of the planned
investment while the rest will be contributed by commercial banks (34%),
local sponsors (20%), and non-bank financial institutions (12%). For the
financial system to meet these targets, industrial lending will have to
increase at an annual rate of 37% which can only be met within GOP's credit
ceilings if debt repayments to the banks are maintained at a high level.



-6-
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Background
3.01    Given the present low level of corporate savings in Pakistan, the
planned expansion of private investment will exert considerable pressures on
the system of industrial financing. While domestic currency term financing
has not been a constraint in recent years, industrial investment has bee!n
hampered by weaknesses in the financial delivery system which is constrELined
by a fragmented institutional structure; a detailed and centralized system of
credit allocation; and a somewhat distorted interest rate structure. The
proposed project is an int:egral part of the Bank Group's overall strategy to
address these issues and a dialogue of foreign exchange and in particular to
streamline the structure and substantially strengthen the industrial
financing aspects of the financial system.  This chapter focusses on the
structure of the financial system, the policy framework, industrial finance,
and the role of the capital market.
B. Structure of the Financial System
3.02    Overview.  The financial system in Pakistan cons:ists of:  (i) five
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs); (ii) eighteen foreign commercial banks
(FCBs); (iii) two specialized commercial banks; (iv) eight development
financing institutions (DFIs); (v) several insurance companies; (vi) two
stock exchanges; and (vii) a housing finance corporation.  The State Bank of
Pakistan (SBP), the central bank, regulates and directs t:he financial system.
Within the overall policies set by GOP and the SBP, the Pakistan Banking
Council (PBC), a de facto regulatory agency of GOP, guides and regulates the
functions of and flow of funds to the NCBs, while the Ministry of Finance
monitors the operations of the other financial institutions.
3.03    The Commercial Banking System. 1/  With total assets of Rs 194.6
billion, or 80% of the assets of the financial system 2/ as of June 30, 1982,
and a branch network of around 7,200, commercial banks play a dominant role.
The five nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) together accounted for about
91% of deposits; 85% of advances; and 82% of commercial bank net profit after
taxes:
1/  Annex 1 provides a comprehensive discussion of thie comnmercial banking
system.
2/  Financial system in this context includes all commercial banks, stock
exchanges, the Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP), NDFC and the
National Investment Trust (NIT).



-7-
Table 1: The Commercial Banking System
Key Statistics
(1978, 1982)
For the period ended
June 30
NCBs               FCBs
December 31                                     1978    1982        1978     1982
Deposits (Rs billion)                           63.2   117.1         3.6       9.1
Advances (Rs billion)                           37.0    72.3         3.3       9.1
Total assets                                    95.6   171.6         9.6      23.0
Advance/deposit (%)                             58.5    61.7        92.0     100.0
Capital & reserves (Rs billion)                  1.0      3.5        0.2       0.6
Capital/deposit ratio (%)                        1.6      3.0       4.9        9.2
Net Profit (Rs billion)                          0.15    0.45        0.06      0.10
Branches                                         N.A.  7,246         N.A.     47
Operating cost /a as percentage
of average total deposits                       3.8      3.4        5.2       5.5
/a  Operating costs = staff costs and other costs.
Source: An analysis of bank's balance sheets, Grindlays Bank, June 30, 1982.
3.04    The share of the NCBs in total commercial bank profitability has
increased from 72% of the total profits of the system in FY78 to 81.1% in
FY82. However, the profits of NCBs are still low and performance is mixed.
The average return on risk assets in 1982 ranged from 0.09% for Allied Bank
to 1.0% for Habib Bank, about one-third of the average returns by foreign
banks. While part of the problem is overstaffing in the NCBs, low salary
levels reduce the impact of overstaffing; operating costs (staff and other
expenses) as a percentage of average deposits of NCBs were 3.8% in FY78 and
3.4% in FY82 compared with 5.2% and 5.5% for the foreign banks. 1/ The low
profitability of the NCBs is caused mainly by: GOP's credit allocation
policies which direct the NCBs to finance priority sectors at low interest
rates; the establishment and expansion of "low profit" branches in rural
areas; non-payment of interest on loans to the public sector; and
overstaffing. Foreign banks, however, are able to increase their
profitability by catering to selected corporate clients and providing fee
based business such as export finance where profit margins are greater.
3.05    Since 1979, a number of steps have been taken to improve the overall
performance of the NCBs: branch expansion is no longer automatic and in 1981
and 1982 a number of branches which were considered uneconomical were closed
down; hiring of staff, except for middle level management, 2/ has been
1/ The cost structure of the FCBs is higher because their ability to mobi-
lize deposits is limited by a ceiling on the number of branches they can
establish, and high compensation packages for their expatriate staff.
2/ In 1983, every NCB will be required to employ about 100 MBAs who, after
appropriate training, will fill the middle level jobs.



-8-
stopped, a performance revriew system has been introduced and bank employees
can now be fired after three tmonths' notice; promotion is now based more on
merit than on seniority; NCBs will be allowed to build up their capital to a
prudent level, by limiting dividends to GOP for the next three years; and
central training institutes (e.g., Institute of Bankers) are being
strengthened. These actions resulted in a 91% increase in NCBs'
profitability in FY82, with further improvements projected in FY83.
3.06    In the area of term lending operations, commercial bank long-term
lending to the manufacturing sector (37% of total advancess) is well above
the level observed in other developing countries. Thlis is due in large part
to GOP's policy of encouraging commercial banks to provide term loans for
industry through consortium lending led by ICP, Bankers Equity Ltd. (BEL) and
NDFC. From FY78 to FY81, advances by the commercial banlcs increased from
Rs 28.5 billion to Rs 57.4 billion, with the manufacturing sector receiving
the major share (Table 2).
Table 2: Sectoral Advances of the Commercial Banks /a
(1978-1981)
(Rs billion)
Sector                           1978                      1982 /b      %
Agriculture                       2.4        8.4            3.6        6.3
Mining and quarrying              0.2        0.9            0.5        0.9
Manufacturing                    11.5       40.2           21.1       36.8
Construction                      0.9        3.2            1.1        1.9
Utilities                         0.2        0.7            0.5        0.9
Commerce                          7.9       27.7           16.1       28.1
Transport                         0.4         1.2           0.7        1.2
Services                         2.8        10.0            8.5       14.8
Others                            2.2        7.7            5.3        9.1
Total                         28.5       100.0           57.4      10(.0
/a  Excludes IDBP and Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan.
/b March 31, 1982.
Source: SBP--1983.
3.07    Specialized Banks.  Four specialized banks:  the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), IDBP, the Federal Bank for Cooperatives
(FBC), and the Punjab Provincial Cooperative Bank (PPCB) also fund medium and
large industry. ADBP is the largest single financial institution lending to
the agricultural sector, while IDBP lends to small- and medium-scale
manufacturing units. The Federal Cooperative Bank acts as a central bank for
provincial cooperative bani and agricultural cooperative credit societies in
the provinces.
3.08    A number of specialized financial institutions also provide
assistance to industry, small businesses and housing. PICIC, the only
financial institution with majority private ownership, malces foreign exchange
loans to medium- and large-scale industry. NDFC provides term financing and



-9-
working capital to the public and private industrial sectors. Three joint
venture companies, Pak-Kuwait, Pak-Libya and Pak-Saudi, have been established
recently to provide loans and venture capital to industry. The Small
Business Finance Corporation (SBFC) mainly provides short- and long-term
loans to small scale industries and businesses. The lnvestment Corporation
of Pakistan (ICP) specializes primarily in arranging equity financing for
industrial enterprises and National Investment Trust (NIT) operates mutual
funds and unit trust savings schemes respectively. ICP also underwrites
equity issues and arranges industrial financing through consortia of NCBs.
Banker Equity Ltd. (BEL) provides risk capital to private industry by
underwriting equity issues and arranging consortia finance participation from
NCBs while the Equity Participation Fund (EPF) provides direct equity support
to small-scale projects mainly in underdeveloped areas.  The need for housing
finance is met by the House Building Finance Corporation.
C. Industrial Finance
3.09    The Financing System.  Notable changes in the industrial financing
system during the last decade have been, inter alia: the creation of a
number of non-bank financial institutions; the decline in the relative
importance of established institutions and the emergence of the NCBs as a
major force in term lending. Initially, PICIC and IDBP were the main
institutions providing term financing for industrial development. Hlowever,
in 1982 NDFC was allowed to diversify its activities to include lending to
the large- and medium-scale private sector. NDFC is now the largest
industrial lending institution in Pakistan. Other institutions such as BEL,
ICP and the joint venture companies have also increased their role in term
financing for private industry. As a result of these changes, PICIC and
IDBP's share of private sector term financing has decreased considerably.
3.10    In FY79-FY80 GOP through the SBP assigned mandatory fixed investment
lending targets to the commercial banks to prevent them from discriminating
against term loans for industry bearing the concessional 11% interest rate.
The targets were discontinued in FY81 because the banks found it difficult to
meet their allocations due to other constraints on industrial investnent,
particularly shortages of foreign exchange, and the banks' limited capacity
to urndertake feasibility studies. In FY82, based on the Annual Credit Plan
for private investment, the SBP provided an allocation for private sector
fixed industrial investment lending of Rs 1.7 billion (US$134 million).
Although the target was not mandatory, unused amounts could not be utili-zed
for other purposes. In FY82 about 80% of the target was met. For FY83 the
target has again been set at Rs 1.7 billion (US$134 million).
3.11    Although the increase in the number of institutions involved in
term-financing means more outlets, institutional imbalances and anomalies
have been created in the process. NDFC, while not a scheduled bank, has been
allowed to perform most commercial banking functions and its growth has
outperformed IDBP and PICIC. IDBP is a scheduled bank but has chosen not to
perform full banking operations; while empowered to raise short term
deposits. IDBP's Charter restricted its working capital financing. 1/ PICIC
1/ IDBP's Charter was amended in November 1983 and the restriction was
removed.



-1.0-
is restricted by the Nationalization Act of 1974 from performing banking
functions such as deposit taking, export finance, ana participating in the
inter-bank market. Thus, PICIC is forced to rely almost exclusively on
multilateral lines of credit for its resources. PICT.C also is subject to
corporate tax whereas NDFC, and the three Pak-Middle East: joint investment
companies are exempt, although they compete in the same market. Several of
these anomalies are addressed under this project.
3.12    In spite of the NCBs' increasing involvement in industrial term
financing, most have not fully developed their project appraisal
capabilities. About 80% of the NCBs' lending for fixed industrial investment
has been carried out through consortia organized by EEL, ICP and NDFC. lWhile
these institutions will continue to provide appraisal and supervision
services for large scale consortium financing, the NCBs' increasing
involvement project financing warrants an upgrading of the NCBs project
evaluation and supervision capabilities. GOP and the PBC agree on the need
to build this expertise for large industrial project appraised.
3.13    Capital Market Financing.  After a good start in the late 1950s, when
substantial savings were invested in new equity issues and dividend rates
were high, the capital market experienced a period of stagnation from the
late 1960s to the end of the 1970s and played a limited role in providing
industrial financing. At present, in spite of GOP's emphasis on private
investment, the capital market has not become a significant source of funds
for industrial investment. Of all listed shares, 85% are controlled by
management groups or by public investment institutions. Highly concentrated
asset holding is eased only marginally through floatation of mutual funds.
However, most new issues f:Loated in 1982 and early 1983 were oversubscribed
and trading volume has increased indicating renewed public confidence.
3.14    Public companies have only tapped general savings through issuance of
appropriate marketable debt. instruments for investment financing to a limaited
extent. Most issues - debentures - were privately placed with financial
institutions and even if listed, their placement has prevented any active
trading. Low interest rates have restricted take up and the major reason for
Bank participation in these issues is achievement of credit targets. Thus,
public companies, faced with financial institutions reluctant to lend, and an
absence of a secondary markcet for corporate bonds are occasionally forced to
borrow in the unofficial credit market. Thus changes, (using monetary policy
tools), in the existing institutional framework to impart flexibility and
responsiveness are necessary. Independent money market trading houses should
be established to make markets in corporate commercial papers and debentures;
these should have the ability 1o raise term deposits as well as limited
resort to SBP. The introduction of leasing as a supplementary source of
project finance through independent companies will add to the flexibility of
the system as will setting up of independent venture capital companies to
complement the role of existing financing institutions. GOP is aware that
the capital market has not been a major source of funds for industrial
development and is studying appropriate measures to resolve the situation-0



-1L--
D. Policy Framework
3.15    The growth and distribution of domestic credit in Pakistan is
regulated by the SBP through traditional instruments such as liquidity
ratios, the rediscount rate and credit ceilings (which, at present, are set
in conjunction with the IMF under the Extended Fund Facility Agreement). The
Bank rate has not been used significantly to influence credit expansion or
allocation, except in the case of priority schemes and refinancing.
3.16    Islamization.  I/  Since 1981, GOP has introduced a number of changes
in the financial system as part of its Islamization process including the
planned abolition of interest through a gradual shifting from an
interest-based financial system to one operating on the principle of profit
and loss sharing (PLS). Changes in the financial sy stem relevant to
industrial finance include the introduction of: (i) PLS working capital
loans (Musharika); (ii) participating term. certificates (PTCs) based on the
PTLS principle, to replace debenture financing; (iii) Modaraba companies,
which operate as investment funds in accordance with Islamic tenets; and
(iv) the conversion of a few non-banking financial institutions (NIT and
i-BFC) to a non-interest basis of operation.
3.17    Since the process of Islamization is being implemented gradually and
pragmatically, it is too early to evaluate its full economic and financial
implicatioris. However, indications are that, on the whole, Islamization has
had a positive impact. By not imposing restrictions on the terms and
conditions which can be negotiated between lenders and borrowers using the
new instruments, GOP is in effect freeing financial rates of return. This
applies in particular to term financing through PTCs, and the arrangements
for hire purchase and leasing currently under consideration. As PTCs are
expected to carry effective rates of 15% p.a., they will provide considerable
incentive for financial institutions to engage in industrial term lending.
Since there are a number of potential problems in the operation of a parallel
interest and PLS-based system, GOP will remain heavily involved in the
reguliation of the financial system for some time. During this process, GOP
may fi-nd it difficult to adjust interest rates on traditional term lending
and, without the flexibility afforded by interest rates, may have to resort
to direct intervention in financial markets to meet its macroeconomic and
developmental objectives.
3.18    Credit Allocation. An important feature of the growth and
distribution of domestic credit is the centralized system of credit
allocation. This system presupposes a highly sophisticated and precise
Annual Credit Plan, a large amount of data and information to predict
sectoral investment and working capital needs, and fine tuning by way of a
constant and timely flow of accurate information. Also it acquires a
mandatory character, particularly as the performance of financial
institutions is judged in relation to their fulfillment of Plan targets. GOP
has monitored the impact of this approach and has improved coordination to
make the system flexible. To date, it has functioned reasonably well,
1/ Annex 2 provides a detailed discussion of the Islamization of Pakistan's
Financial System.



-12-
meeting adequately the credit requirements of the private sector.  Howeve!r
the system will need to be made more responsive to changing market conditions
as it is difficult to transfer unused public enterprise allocations to the
private sector, and the more dynamic and aggressive banks are not permitted
to utilize the unused allocations of other banks.  GOP is aware of the need
to increase the flexibility of the system and reallocate funds based on
actual requirements. Action in this area would be monitored closely during
implementation of the proposed Project.
3.19    Interest Rates.  The interest rate structure for deposit-taking
institutions is characterized by a crossing of rates; deposit rates rise with
maturity while domestic lending rates fall with maturity.  Interest rates on
domestic term loans are fixed at 11%, while working capital loans carry a
rate of 14%. Deposit rates, oni the other hand, rise with maturity from 5.5%
p.a. for 7 to 29 day deposits t:o 13.0% p.a. for five-year deposits. Foreign
exchange loans made by the DFIs are normally made at 14%, including a 3%
foreign exchange risk fee payable to the Government.
3.20    The interest rate structure was one of the main issues raised by the
Financial Sector Review Mission in February 1982, and was discussed
extensively in December 1982 and again during the course of the March 1983
appraisal mission for the proposed Project. GOP agrees that indirect
subsidized lending for selected sectors and the crossing of deposit and term
lending rates, which leads to a negative spread on term lending, acts as a
disincentives to industrial lending.  However, GOP does nDt consider
immediate revision of interest rates necessary as market interest rates are
expected to decline rapidly in response to low inflation. At present, the
official lending rate of 11% for term lending is positive and considered a
realistic indicator of the cost: of capital, and the net lending rate of 14%
for foreign currency term loans is substantially positive.  The inflation
rate in Pakistan is currently about 7% and is projectesd to remain below 10%
for the next few years.  Additionally the process of Islamization is making
the cost of funds more responsive to market conditions. ]?TCs presently have
a coupon rate of 15% p.a., compared with the local currency term lending rate
of 11% p.a. Since the bulk of new term lending is in local currency, the
disincentive to lend is being eliminated.
3.21    Given GOP's commitment to liberalize interest rates through the use
of Islamic instruments which carry a "market" rate of return, it is not
appropriate to use the proposed Project to resolve the issue of crossed
lending and deposit rates.  Lowering interest rates on time deposits alone
would only constrain the mobilization of savings whiclh are already low.
Moreover, the 11% p.a. official rate for term lending to industry does not
now have a real impact, as only nominal amounts of term lending are made at
that rate. However, to facilitate reform of the structure which would be
contingent upon the speed of the Islamization process, agreement was reached
with GOP during negotiations that it would take all necessary measures to
ensure that onlending rates to industrial enterprises under the project
remain positive.



-13-
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Lending Strategy
4.01    Past Operations.  As of December 31, 1982, the Bank Group had made
15 loans/credits totalling US$384 million to industry through IDBP, NDFC and
PICIC (Table 3).
Table 3: Bank Group Lending to DFIs in Pakistan
(up to 1982)-
Institution              No. of Loans        Total Amount          %
($ millions)
PICIC                          11                  274            71.4
IDBP /a                         3                   80            20.8
NDFC                            1                   30             7.8
15                  384           100.0
Ia  Including US$30 million SSI loan for onlending through
commercial bank.
4.02    Among the three DFIs 1/ associated with the Bank Group, involvement
with PICIC has been the longest and largest in volume (para. 1.04). PICIC
was set up in 1957 with the assistance of the International Finance
Corporation as a privately owned investment bank to provide long-term
finance, especially foreign currencies, to private industry. With the
devaluation of the rupee by 131% in 1972, and subsequent nationalization of
major private industries including the commercial banks and insurance
companies, PICIC, ran into severe financial problems. The Bank Group
continued to work with GOP to revitalize PICIC and granted three loans and
credits to PICIC. Under its new management PICIC has made considerable
progress in recent years in resolving its operational difficulties, and its
medium term prospects are reasonably good.
4.03    IDBP was established by GOP in 1961 to provide financial assistance
to small- and medium-scale industrial units. In line with GOP policy of
promoting industries in East Pakistan at the time its headquarters were in
Dhaka, IDBP performed well during its initial years of operations, and up to
the early 1970s was an important source of foreign exchange for small scale
industrial development. In 1970, to assist in the development of SSI, IDA
granted a credit (Cr. 177-PAK) of US$20.0 million to IDBP. With the
independence of Bangladesh (formerly East Pakistan) and the loss of its
assets in the country, and the devaluation of the rupee in 1972, IDBP ran
into severe financial problems and became uncreditworthy for Bank Group
assistance. However, the Bank Group and the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
worked closely with GOP during the 1970s to revitalize IDBP. By 1981
sufficient progress had been made to enable the Bank Group to use IDBP as the
1/ For a detailed review of the operations of IDBP, NDFC and PICIC see
Annexes 4, 5 and 6.



-14-
administrating agency for a furLher line of credit--Cr. 1186-PAK --for SSI
development.
4.04    GOP set up NDFC in 1973 to provide term and working capital financing
for the public sector enterprises. Unlike IDBP and PICIC, NDFC was
authorized to perform many commercial banking functions including deposit
mobilization. In 1975 IDA granted NDFC a credit of US$30 million
(Cr. 546-PAK). The role of NDFC became unclear in 1977 when GOP adopted a,
new industrial development policy limiting the growth of the public sector
industry; however, this uncertainty was eliminated in [982 when NDFC was
authorized to finance private industries without restriction. Despite these
uncertainties, NDFC's performance has been the strongest of the DFIs, and it
is now the largest and most prof'itable DFI (Table 4):
Table 4: DFIs Associated with the Banc Group
Structure of Assets and Liabilities
(Rs billion)
Loan     Total               Borrowed            Net
Portfolio  Assets  Deposits   Funds    Equity  Income
IDBP  (06/30/83)            2.5      2.7        0.3       2.2        0.2    0.03
NDFC  (12/31/82)            3.2      4.3        2.1       1.5        0.5    0.10
PICIC (12/31/82)           2.6       2.8         -        2.3        0.4 0..004
TOTAL                 8.3       9.8        2.4      6.0        1.1    0.17
Source: IDBP, NDFC, PICIC.
4.05    Proposed Strategy.  U3ntil 1981, the rationale for dealing
individually with the DFIs was t'heir clearly defined roles in different
market segments. IDBP concentrated on SSIs, PICIC catered to medium and
large private industries, and ND]FC dealt with the public sector. However,
there is now considerable overlap in the client base of the DFIs. IDBP and
PICIC now both concentrate on direct lending to medium- and large-scale
private industries, while lending to SSIs is handled mainly by the NCBs.
Also the NCBs were instructed by GOP to fill the gap in industrial term
lending created by the resurgence in credit demand and the financial probletms
of IDBP and PICIC. By FY82, annual term lending to industry by NCBs was
about Rs 1.4 billion. Under the SFYP, the NCBs are expected to finance 34%
of private industrial investment or about three times the combined lending of
all DFIs including the three joinit venture finance companies. Because of the
factors discussed above, the roles of PICIC and IDBP in industrial finance
have become less significant. 1/
4.06    Given these changes in the environment and the decline in the share
of industrial financing by the DFIs, the Bank Group needs to reorient its
lending strategy to focus on the system of industrial fjinancing as a whole.
1/ In FY82, total approvals by IDBP and PICIC were Rs 888 million or about
10% of the total private industrial investment.



-15-
By doing so, the Bank Group would be positioned to discuss general financial
sector issues with the GOP, and to influence the roles and performance of key
institutions in the financial sector. The Bank Group can, at the same time,
continue to assist in strengthening the DFIs by establishing eligibility
criteria to bring about necessary institutional reforms without affecting the
flow of credit to private industry.
B. Project Objectives
4.07    The proposed project is designed to:
(i) improve credit delivery for industrial finance by focussing
on the system as well as individual institutions;
(ii) reduce the possibility of jeopardizing industry's access
to term finance as a result of a participating institution's
non-compliance with conditionality/eligibility criteria by
expanding the sources of financing;
(iii) remove operating anomalies which hamper competition among
DFIs;
(iv) encourage competition among PFIs by expanding and improving
the services offered by them;
(v) strengthen individual institutions through technical assistance
programs; and
(vi) develop a more consistent and continuous method of providing
foreign exchange financing for industry in Pakistan.
C. Strengthening Credit Delivery for Industry
4.08    Institutional Upgrading.  The design of the Project would enable the.
Bank Group to work with GOP in a systematic manner to address the problems
affecting the flows of industrial credit. The capabilities of IDBP and PICIC
would be reinforced by instituting a number of operational and institutional
improvements, and upgrading programs would be implemented in the other
institutions to enable their participation in the proposed Project. Funds
would also be channeled through NCBs which have become an important source of
private industry investment, and whose role is expected to increase further
under the Sixth Plan. Under the proposed Project, appraisal and supervision
capabilities of the NCBs would be strengthened and their participation would
enable them to provide clients with a full range of banking services
including foreign exchange term loans. By involving the NCBs, which are
major sources of industrial finance, the Bank Group would be in a better
position to discuss issues relating to the entire system of industrial
finance.
4.09    Rationalization of Regulations Affecting DF.Is.  Although IDBP, NDFC
and PICIC lend to similar target groups, each is subject to different
regulatory controls. IDBP is a scheduled bank and falls under the
supervision of the SBP. PICIC is a private company, although 49% of its
share capital is held by public sector institutions, and is supposed to



-16-
operate independently.  NDFC was set up as an autonomous agency under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. For these historical reasons and
their different legal structures, the DFIs operate under different parameters
which have created anomalies both in the services they can provide and in the
fiscal treatment of their profits:
NDFC          PICIC          IDB]'
Deposits /a                                     yes            no            yes
Export Finance and Foreign Exchange             yes            no            yes
Working Capital /b                              yes           yes            yes
Corporate Tax                                    no           yes            yes
Sanctioning Authority                            no           yes            yes
/a  IDBP, as a scheduled bank, can take deposits, but has not done so.
PICIC, as a private compiany, is prevented from taking deposits by the
Bank's Nationalization A:t of 1974.
/b Only NDFC has been active in working capital financing. PICIC has lim:ited
local currency resources.
4.10    There is a need to rationalise DFI regulations so that they can
provide their clients with more zomprehensive financial services, thus
facilitating project implementation. The conditions under which NDFC
operates should be considered as a model for PICIC and IDBP to allow them
to diversify and provide a full range of banking services. Following
discussions with the Bank Group in March 1983, GOP took a number of measures
to rectify IDBP's and PICIC's operating anomalies.  PICIC's is now allowed to
mobilize local currency resources in the form of debentures, interbank
deposits and credit lines from the SBP for onlending purposes.  PICIC
management has taken full advantage of these facilities and has already made
a substantial volume of workiing capital loans.  An amendment to IDBP's Act to
allow it to carry out a wider range of loan operations was made in November
1983.  With the amendment in place, IDBP can lend more flexibly for working
capital. GOP is reluctant to exempt PICIC - a private corporation - from
corporate tax, as it fears that exemption from taxes will create an
undesirable pr,ecedent.  However during negotiations, GOP agreed that IDBP and
PICIC would be given a spread of 4% compared with 3% for NDFC and the NCBs.
This is a partial solution to the problem and provides a basis for further
action under subsequent projects..
D. Technical Assistance
4.11    The proposed Project include a technical assistance component of
US$2.0 million, divided into three subcomponents: (i) organization and
system studies (US$750,000); (ii) training (US$750,000); and (iii) subsector
studies (US$500,000). Funds would be reallocated based on the demand for
services.  A major part of the training component will be used by the
participating NCBs and DFIs to fund their programs to upgrade their appraisal
capabilities while it is anticipated that IDBP, NDFC and PICIC will take up
the funds earmarked for organization and systems studies. FLBL, NDFC and
PICIC are expected to utilize the funds for subsector studies in accordance
with programs agreed upon during negotiations. The technical assistance
funds will be made available to the PFIs as development expenditure on a
first-come-first-served basis.  Training program proposals from the PFIs were



-17-
reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. The Bank Group will review and
approve all technical assistance subprojects.
E. Project Cost, Components and Financing Plan
4.12    As of June 30, 1983, the foreign exchange requirements of the DFIs
totalled US$316 million (para. 2.10) while that of the NCBs (HBL and UBL) is
estimated at US$300 million. To partially finance these requirements, a loan
and credit package of US$100.0 million (including a front end fee of
US$125,000) through a 50:50 blending of IBRD and IDA funds is recommended.
The remaining gap would be financed by a US$100 million parallel ADB Credit
which has been modelled after this project, 1/ export credits
(US$100 million), bilateral sources, and from other foreign sources arranged
by the sponsors.
4.13    Project Components.  The proposed Project will consist of two
components, US$98.0 million for onlending and US$2.0 million for technical
assistance (para 4.11). The US$98 million proposed for onlending to industry
through eligible PFIs would represent about 18% of the estimated foreign
exchange requirements of the projected level of investments in the medium-
and large-scale private industrial investment over the next two-three years.
V. PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFIs)
A. The Participating NCBs 2/
5.01    Although all five NCBs (para. 3.03) are involved in term lending
operations, the bulk of term lending to industry is made by the HBL and UBL,
with the National Bank of Pakistan (NBP), the Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB),
and Allied Bank Ltd. (ABL) involved to a lesser extent. HBL and UBL have
developed financial and technical appraisal capabilities, recruiting staff
from the DFIs for this purpose while NBP, MCL and ABL rely upon DFIs for
appraisals. HBL, with a long history of industrial financing, is the better
equipped of the two.  HBL already has taken a number of steps to expand its
capabilities by creating a separate project appraisal/end use section,
recruiting suitable staff and implementing training program in project
appraisal techniques. Thus its Corporate Credit Division has the staff to
prepare term loan proposals for financing and dealing with consortia lending,
and HBL would be able to participate in the Project and draw funds from the
pool as soon as the subsidiary loan agreement becomes effective. While UBL
has been active in term finance, it would need to establish a suitable
project appraisal section and employ staff capable of carrying out project
appraisals to Bank Group standards. Under the proposed Project, HBL and UBL
1/ ADB appraised an Industrial Investment Project in July 1983. Nego-
tiations were completed in November and Board approval is expected in
December 1983.
2/ Annex 3 gives a more detailed coverage of the operations of the NCBs.



-18-
would be participating financial institutions subject to fulfilling
conditions of eligibility.
Eligibility Criteria
5.02    As a condition for effectiveness of their subsidiary loan agreements,
eligible NCBs would be required to establish suitably staffed project
appraisal sections for industrial term lending operations within their Head
Office Corporate Finance Departments. Initially, each section should have at
least three officers (financial analyst, economist and engineer) with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank Group. HBL has already
established an appraisal secticn with nine officers.
5.03    The participating NCBs would continue to train their staff in project
appraisal with financing for external training provided under the Project.
This training would include secondment of staff to DFIs oi- to commercial
banks with strong appraisal capabilities in other countries. The secondment
for at least two officers would be for a minimum of two months of on-the-job
training. All officers in the project appraisal section of the participating
NCBs would attend local courses on project evaluation and project
supervision. The PBC which already has taken concrete measures to upgrade
the capabilities of the NCBs will be responsible for coordinating training
programs for NCB officers.
5.04    HBL submitted a strategy and policy statement:  (i) outlining its
credit policies regarding term lending especially with regards to the
proposed Bank operations; (ii) quantifying its expected irnvolvement in this
area of lending over the project implementation period; (iii) outlining its
priorities in project selection; (iv) describing expected developments in its
staffing for industrial term financing; and (v) describing intended appraisal
and follow-up procedures, role of branches, and training plans.  The draft
strategy statement was agreed upon during negotiations. Approval of thes,e
statements by HBL's Board of Directors will be a condition of effectiveness
of its subsidiary loan agreement. The participation of UBL in the project
would be subject to the same conditions as those set for HBL.
B. Participating DFIs
Introduction
5.05    Subject to fulfillmient of conditions of eligibility (paras.
5.24-5.25), IDBP, NDFC and 'PICIC have been selected to participate in the
proposed Project. A detailed analysis of the operations and prospects of
each institution is given in Annexes 4 to 6.
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) 1/
5.06    At the time of the appraisal of Credit 1186-PAK to IDBP in 1981, it
was recognized that the institution faced a number of major problems, the
most serious of which were the absence of an effective organization
1/ See Annex 4 for a detai:Led discussion of IDBP's operations and prospects.



-19-
structure, extremely low levels of collections and resulting high levels of
arrears and infected portfolio. The poor repayment performance of many of
IDBP's loans arose in part from the loss of related investments in East
Pakistan and the significant devaluations of the rupee in 1972 and 1975.
Under Credit 1186-PAK, GOP initiated an action program of measures to
facilitate the collection of arrears by IDBP, and to improve IDBP's
institutional structure, strengthen senior management capabilities, and halt
IDBP's deteriorating financial position. 1/ By June 30, 1981, a new managing
director had been appointed, senior staff vacancies had been filled, a
Special Studies Department established to reappraise and reschedule
repayments on problem projects, and GOP had rescheduled about Rs 1.0 billion
of loans, subordinated credits, etc., to give IDBP a debt/equity ratio of 5:1
and a Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) of 1:1.
5.07    More recently, actions taken by GOP and IDBP under a recent ADB
credit included: (i) rescheduling of SBP cash credits and GOP loans; (ii)
provision of an interest rate subsidy on SBP credits for five years; and
(iii) conversion of some of GOP's loans into subordinated debt is now in
place. The net results of this action is that IDBP's financial position has
improved materially with its debt servicing ratio improving to 1:1 and
debt/equity ratio to 4.6:1. GOP has also accepted the Bank Group
recommendation to allow IDBP more flexibility in making working capital
loans. An amendment to IDBP's Charter to this effect was made in November
1983. IDBP also expects to mobilize deposits of Rs 25.0 million in FY84,
rising to about Rs 200 million p.a. from FY85 onward. This will enhance its
profitability and balance its asset structure. GOP has also allowed IDBP to
further diversify its domestic resource mobilization and strengthen its
capital base by issuing up to Rs 200.0 million in subordinated debentures
which will be eligible for reserve requirements. The debentures are to be
taken up by the NCBs.
5.08    IDBP has revised its Strategy and Policy Statements to reflect the
above changes. Projected financial statements for FY84-FY88 show that the
DSCR will remain above 1.1:1 and the debt/equity ratio below 5:1.
Collections are targeted to increase from Rs 314 million in FY83 to Rs 530
million by FY86. This will increase its collection ratio from 20% to 36% and
its cash collection ratio on current dues from 58% in FY83 to 74% in FY86.
IDBP's collection targets for FY84-86 were reviewed and agreed as follows:
FY84, Rs 365 million, FY85, Rs 425 million and FY86, Rs 530 million.
5.09    Despite the above improvements, IDBP's management needs to intensify
its monitoring efforts to further improve the quality of its portfolio and
strengthen the sectoral aspects of its appraisals. Assistance from
consultants, experienced in portfolio reviews and restructuring, to review
IDBP's portfolio could be beneficial. IDBP's management feels that with the
recent strengthening in its staffing, it is now in a position to carry out
such a review with its own resources. However, if the need for consultants
emerges during the review, IDBP would request financing from the technical
assistance fund (para. 4.11).  In the area of sectoral analysis, the long
1/ As PICIC was affected by the same problem a similar action program was
undertaken for it also.



-20-
vacant position of economic adviser has been filled and the advisor is
expected to join IDBP in early 1984.  This should have a positive impact on
the standard of IDBP's appraisals.
5.10    Eligibility Criteria.  IDBP has been included as a participating
institution in the proposed Project.  During negotiations agreement was with
IDBP on:
(a) the Strategy Statement and Operating Policies which reflected
IDBP's changed operatinig environment, appropriate sectoral
exposure limits, and areas of investment growth potential;
(b) detailed regional/sectoral collection targets for FY84-FY86;
(c) a staff training program, particularly for project appraisal
and end-use staff;
(d) the formula for determining IDBP's debt/equity rai:io and DSCR; and
(e)  a program for portfolio restructuring, based on its portfolio review.
5.11    As a condition of effectiveness for the subloan agreement between GOP
and IDBP, IDBP would be recuired to fulfill the following conditions:
(a) IDBP's Board approval of the revised Statement of Strategy and
Operating Policies;
(b) initiation of the agreed training program;
(c) IDBP's Board approval of collections targets.
5.12    To participate in the pool of unallocated funds, I]DBP would be
required to:
(a) maintain a DSCR of 1.1:1;
(b) maintain an agreed debt/equity ratio of not less t:han 5:1; and
(c) meet agreed collection targets.
National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) 1/
5.13    Established in 1973, NDFC's growth has been credit:able, its
operations profitable, and its financial position satisfactory. This
situation is in large part a result of NDFC's aggressive rmarketing which
enabled it to obtain a major part of public sector non-Annual Development
Program term financing. However, GOP's new industrial investment emphasis
has required NDFC to develop a new operating strategy for term lending to the
private sector and to test its creditworthiness in mobilizing medium- and
long-term foreign exchange from international private sources. NDFC projects
1/  For a detailed review of NDFC's operations, see Annex 5.



-21-
a shortfall of available foreign exchange resources from FY85 to FY87, and
will take appropriate action to meet this need in the Euro-currency market
when the conditions become more favorable.
5.14    Although NDFC has carried out term transformation and improved the
mix of its long-/short-term loans to some 65:35, it has been unable to carry
out more term transformation and lending due to the distorted interest rate
structure (para 3.19) which prevents the matching of maturities of deposits
and loans. The emergence of PTCs with market rate interest has eased the
situation, but the removal of this constraint, which applies to all DFIs and
term financing institutions, is necessary in terms of an overall strategy to
mobilize the resources necessary to meet investment targetted levels by GOP
(para 3.22).
5.15    Eligibility Criteria.  During negotiations agreement was reached on:
(a)  NDFC's Statement of Strategy and Operating Policies, reflecting
entry into private sector lending;
(b)  a staff training program for economic staff (particularly those
engaged in subsectoral analysis); and
(c)  NDFC's debt/equity ratio and DSCR.
5.16    Effectiveness of the subloan agreement between GOP and NDFC would be
dependent upon:
(a) approval by NDFC's Board of the revised Statement of
Strategy and Operating Policies; and
(b) initiation of the agreed training program.
5.17    NDFC's participation in the pool of unallocated funds would be
dependent upon maintenance of (i) a DSCR of not less than 1.1:1; and (ii) an
agreed debt/equity ratio of 7:1.
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited (PICIC) 1/
5.18    From FY70 until FY80, PICIC's financial and operating position
deteriorated significantly (para. 4.02). However, as a result of measures
taken by GOP, PBC, the NCBs during FY81-FY82, and concerted efforts by
PICIC's new top management, PICIC's liquidity position and debt servicing
capability improved considerably. 2/ To supplement PICIC's local resources,
SBP has recently allowed PICIC to borrow from the interbank market at 7% and
lend for working capital. PICIC has also made a number of working capital
loans, supported by guarantees of foreign commercial banks at 13%, receiving
a net spread of 6%, and has repaid SBP credits which carry an interest of 10%
1/ Annex 6 details PICIC's operations and prospects.
2/ Because of the improvement in recoveries, PICIC has not been relying on
SBP for liquidity supports.



-z22-
p.a., furthler improving its profitability which increased from Rs 19 million
An 1982, to RPs 48.6 million (or by 156%) in the first half 1983. Recoveries
also improved. As of June 30, 1983, PICIC had collected Rs 249 million, and
for FY83 expects to collecd: Rs 450 million compared with a target of Rs 400
million.  Through these improved collects, PICIC's portfolio affected by
arrears was reduced to Rs 1.0 billion or 40% of its outstanding portfolio,
compared to 67% in early l981. PICIC's DSCR, which remained below 1.0 till
1982, is now i.15 and is projected to be above 1.1:1 over the next five
years.  As a result of these improvements, PICIC's share price has recovered
and shares are now traded at Rs 9X25 per share compared with Rs 6.50 in early
1983.
5.19    The financial restructuring of PICIC is now practically complete and
this has given PICIC's management an opportunity to focus on its lending
operations.  Since March 1983, PICIC has strengthened its Project Department
an.i created a Proiect Promotion and Development Division.  The Chief
Economist who was appointecd in early 1983 has begun to make a positive
contributioni to PICIC's sector work. Salary adjustments and promotions are
beginning to reflect performance and not only seniority.  PICIC's management
has also taken steps to make PlCIC's compensation package more competitive
with other DFIs. A new business strategy is being developed and will be
ready for discussion and agreement during negotiations.
5.20    The unwieldly structure and composition of PICIC's Board, and some
lack of clarity in the dec-ision-making process, had until 1982 adversely
affected the effectiveness of PICIC's new management. However action by GOP
to strengthen the authoritv of PICIC's Executive Committee and Managing
Director, have removed the operational difficulties.  Steps taken this far,
are as follows: (i) the loan approval authority of the Executive Committee,
which is now chaired by the Managing Director, has been increased to Rs 15
million and could be increased further if needed; and (ii) PICIC's Board of
Directors in its resolution of June 1, 1983, confirmed the Managing Director,
as the Chief Executive of PIICIC. The new Managing Director has made a
positive contribution to PICIC and his departure would be a major setback for
PICIC. During negotiations, an understanding was reached with GOP that GOP
wil1 consult the Bank Group in the event that a new Managing Director is to
be appointed.
5.21    Eligibility Criteria.  During negotiations, agreement was reached
with PICIC on:
(a) the Statement of St:rategy and Operating Policy;
(b) a staff training program for operational staff;
(c) revised collection targets for FY83-FY85; 1/ and
(d)  the formula for deltermining PICIC's debt/equity ratio and DSCR.
1/ PICIC's collection targets for 1983-85 were reviewed and agreed as fol-
lows: 1983, Rs 430 million; 1984, Rs 460 million; and 1985, Rs 500
million.



-23-
5.22    Effectiveness of the subloan agreement between GOP and PICIC would be
dependent upon:
(a) PICIC Board approval of the Statement of Strategy and Operating
Policies; and
(b) initiation of the agreed training program.
5.23    PICIC's access to the pool of unallocated funds would be conditional
upon: (a) maintenance of the agreed debt/equity ratio; (b) maintenance of an
agreed DSCR of 1.1:1; and (c) achievement of the agreed collection targets.
C. Summary Eligibility Criteria
5.24    During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOP and the PFIs on
the form and content of each institution's:
HBL    IDBP    NDFC       PICIC
Policy Statement                            x       x        x         x
Strategy Statement                          x       x        x         x
Sector Work Program                         x                x
Training Programs FY84 - FY86               x       x        x         x
Collection Targets--FY84 - FY86                     x                  x
Conditions of Board Presentation 1/
5.25    Prior to Board presentation, at least three PFI's including HBL
should have established their eligibility to participate in the project, by:
(a) adopting a Statement of Strategy and Operating Policies; (b) initiating a
training program satisfactory to the Bank Group; (c) agreeing with GOP on a
subsidiary loan agreement; and (d) for HBL) establishing a project section
at its head office.
Access to Funds
5.26    During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOP and the PFIs that
signing of a subsidiary loan agreement by at least one PFI would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Loan/Credit. An agreement was also reached
on the conditions for access to the funds. They are as follows:
1/ All the conditions in para 5.25 have been met.



-24-
HBL   IDBP   NDFC   PICIC
Conditions to) Access Initial Allocations
Board Approval--Policy Statement                      x       x      x       x
Board Approval--Strategy Statement                    x       x      x       x
Initiation of Training Program                        x       x      x       x
Board Approval--Collection Target                             x              x
Conditions for Access to Unallocated Funds
Maintain Agreed Debt'Equity Ratio                             x      x       x
Maintain Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.1:1                 x      x       x
Achievement of Collection Targets                             x              x
VI.  "HE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
A. Amount and Allocatior. of Funds
6.01    The proposed IBRD loan of US$50.0 million (including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$125,000) and IDA credit of US$50 million equivalent
(SDR 47.3 million) would finance about 6.1% of the projected total fixed
private industrial investmenlt ia medium- and large-scale industries during,
FY84-FY86 and provide US$200 million for technical assistance. In terms of
foreign exchange cost, the Bank Group's share will be around 18.0%. Based on
the existing pipeline of the projects and the minimum and maximum limit size
of eligible subloans of US$:1.0 millicn and US$4.0 million, about 40-50
projects will be financed under the proposed Project.  The necessary locaL
currency funds will be provided by the sponsors and PFIs. IDBP and PICIC
will in most cases co-finance their projects with NCBs. The net foreign
exchange gap will be financid by a US$100 million parallel ADB Credit line,
suppliers' credits of US$100.0 million, other bilateral funds, and from the
general foreign exchange pool of the SBP. 1/  In addition, NCBs, which have
overseas branches and fur.ding cqpability, will blend their resources with the
Bank Group funds, The loan/credit funds are expected to be fully committed
within 24-36 months after Board approval. Therefore, PFIs could submit
subprojects to the Bank Grouip fDr approval until 1985.
6.02    Allocation of Funds},  Initially, IDBP, NDFC and PICIC will be
allocated US$15 million each, with US$53 million placed in a pool of
unallocated funds.  Although thie NCBs would not have an initial allocation of
funds, they would have immediata access to the unallocated pool once they
meet their eligibility criteria (paras. 5.02-5.04). The rationale of this
allocation is to ensure rapid commitment and disbursement of the Project
funds, Each DFI will be given six months from the time of signing of the
Loan/CrediL to fulfill participation conditions, and twelve months from the
time of Loan/Credit effectiveness to utilize its initial allocation of US$15
i/  For projects involving a total irvestment not exceeding Rs 60 million and
needing foreign exchange less than Rs 30 million, the investor can rai:Lse
foreign exchange directLy from SBP under general license scheme.



-25-
million after which any unutilized portion of their initial allocations would
be transferred to the pool of funds. PFIs which do not meet eligibility
criteria or fail to make satisfactory progress in implementing agreed action
programs would be excluded from access to the pool of funds.
B. Financial Package
6.03    The financial package for the proposed Project would consist of a
blend of Bank and IDA funds in a mix of 50:50. The package would be made
available to GOP on standard Bank Group terms and conditions. GOP would
onlend the funds to the PFIs through subsidiary loan agreements with each
institution. Signing of subsidiary loan agreements of at least one PFI will
be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan/Credit. Signing of subsidiary
loan agreements on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group will be
a condition of disbursement for each respective PFI.
6.04    Onlending Rates and Spread.  As GOP is reluctant, for fiscal reasons,
to introduce uniform tax treatment for IDBP, NDFC and PICIC, a mix of
onlending rates is proposed for the Project. GOP has agreed to an onlending
rate of 14% p.a. with a spread of 4% for PICIC and IDBP and a spread of 3%
for NDFC and the NCBs. In line with its present policy, GOP will bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risk.  The technical assistance funds of
US$2.0 million would be passed to PFIs as grants. The proposed onlending
arrangement is reasonable as the local currency term lending rate of 11% p.a.
reflects the cost of capital in Pakistan and is positive. The net lending
rate of 14% p.a. for foreign currency term loan is also substantially
positive. The inflation rate as measured by the Consumer Price Index is
about 7% and is projected to remain well below 10% over the next few years.
Although the present rate level and structure is reasonable, it is possible
that GOP may not be able to control inflation and the lending rate may become
negative. Thus, during negotiations, agreement was reached with GOP that
it will take all necessary measures to ensure that onlending rates for
industrial term financing remains positive.
6.05    Free Limits and Subproject Reviews.  As the Bank Group has not
previously dealt simultaneously with some of the PFIs selected to participate
in the Project, it was agreed during negotiations that the Bank Group would
review all subprojects from each PFI to ensure satisfactory appraisal
standards and to minimize the risk of premature approval of subloans. Based
on review experience, an appropriate free limit for each PFI would be
established on a case-by-case basis. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that each PFI would submit its project appraisals in form and content
satisfactory to the Bank Group, with the appraisal reports including the
economic viability of the subproject, value added, domestic resource cost,
financial and economic rates of return. No sectoral allocation of funds is
proposed under the Project.
6.06    Beneficiaries.  Although the proposed IIC Project is aimed at
financing private sector projects, NDFC is involved in public sector
financing, and wishes to have some flexibility in financing expansion and BMR
projects. Thus during negotiations it was agreed that US$10 million, of
NDFC's allocation, could be used for expansion and BMR projects in the public
sector.



"-2 6-
66Q7    Amortization Scheduile.  Since GOP will bear the foreign and interest
rate risk and There is a need to augment local currency resources of DFIs, it
is recommended that the Loan/Cr-edit be made to GOP on standard terms and
conditions.  GOP would onlend the funds to PFIs for a period of 15 years,
including a grace period ol- 3 years.  PFIs would repay GOP on the basis of a
composite amortization schedule of subloans. This would provide a rollov;er
of funds which will augment local currency resources of DFIs and enable them
to provide working capital finance to their clients.  PFIs would onlend the
funds to industrial projects based on the cash flow requirements. However,
the maximum maturity will rormally be limited to 10 yiears including the grace
period.
C. Administration
6.08    Procurement.  The five proposed PFIs have sounLd procurement
prc-edures which require evaluation of procurement on the basis of at least
three bids submitted under Limited International Tendering (LIT).  Under the
Project, LIT would be required for individual contracl:s above USS2.0 million.
In these cases, the PFIs would require project sponsors toD contact embassies
and trade representatives of Bank Group member countries and Switzerland
represented in Pakistan; however, they would riot be required to advertise
in international publications as reflected in Section 1.02 of the Bank Group
Procurement Guidelines.  Fcr smaller contracts, the PFIs would employ their
existing procurement procedures which generally conform to the Bank Group's
standard practices. In most cases, machinery and equipment would be procured
by obtaining at least three competitive quotations from established sources.
The PFIs would be expected to maintain records of the method of procurement
and to monitor utilization of subloans through regular supervision
activities.
6.09    Disbursement Procedures.  The estimated disbursement schedule is
shown in Annex 8, together with the profile of actual disbursements of
Bank-wide DFC projects. The proceeds of the Loan and Creclit would be
disbursed at the rate of 100% cf the foreign exchange costs for machinery and
equipment of eligible subloans and 60% of local expenditures (corresponding
to the estimated foreign exchange content of these items)., As in prior Bank
Group loans and credits to DFIs, full documentation of expenditures would
be submitted to the Bank Group. For the technical assistance component, the
credit proceeds would be disbursed at the rate of 100% for consultants'
services and overseas training.
6.10    Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  PFIs would be required to submit
quarterly progress reports covering their operations under the Project
acceptable to the Bank Group. Financial statements would be submitted
annually by the NCBs and the DFIs. These would be required to conform with
the Bank Group standard reporting requirements with submission of audited
financial statements within six months after the end cf each fiscal year.



-27-
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
7.01    Benefits.  The major benefit arising from the proposed Project would
be the strategic positioning of the Bank Group to enable it to work closely
with GOP and financial institutions on the upgrading of the credit delivery
system. The Project would also contribute directly as well as indirectly to
filling the gap in term financing available for private investment in the
industrial sector, In the short term, the proposed Project would allow: a
continuation of the Bank Group support for the process of industrial and
financial sector reforms; the reorientation of the Bank Group's involvement
from focussing on single institutions to a broader focus on the system of
industrial finance; and the broadening of the Bank Group institution building
assistance to cover, not only the institutions financed in the past, but also
other institutions in the financial sector including the commercial banks.
The broad range of institutions participating in the proposed Project would
enable the Bank Group to expand its institution building efforts and assist
the institutions concerned in development oriented lending.
7.02    The proposed Project is expected to have a positive impact on
resource generation and help GOP's efforts to stimulate an inflow of external
resources. It is projected that the Bank Group funding would generate
additional resources of about US$300 million.
7.03    The proposed Project would finance about 40-50 projects involving a
total investment cost of US$250 million. Based on past Bank Group
experience, the subprojects to be financed are expected to be relatively
labor intensive, efficient in terms of resource utilization, and to have
economic and financial rates of return of at least 15%.
7.04    Risks.  While the DFIs have had many years of project appraisal
experience, the NCBs have only recently embarked on term lending operations
based on project viability as distinct from collateral support. Thus,
there is a risk that the NCBs will be slower than expected in moving from
collateral to appraisal based lending and that their participation in the
project will be limited, defeating the objective of establishing viable
alternatives to the DFIs, which up to now have not performed with any real
drive.  However, it is anticipated that the risk will be negated by the
relatively rapid establishment of effective term lending policies, procedures
and appraisal capabilities within the NCBs.
7.05    Success of the action programs to improve the operation and financial
viability of IDBP and PICIC will require strong commitment by GOP and by the
management of both institutions. The commitment has been given and evidence
indicates that GOP will translate it into effect. If however, the actions
taken by GOP, IDBP and PICIC do not prove effective, there could be delays in
utilizing, first, allocated funds and, subsequently, the pool of unallocated
funds.
7.06    A risk of the lending component of the proposed Project is that an
adequate number of eligible subprojects might not materialize due to
political uncertainties and the slowly recovering economic environment.
However, the pipelines of the PFIs indicate credit demand well in excess of
the amount proposed for the Project. It is probable that full commitment of



-28-
the US$98.0 million subloan component would be achieved in less than the
three years provided under the Project.
7,07    Finally, the rapid development of the NCBs as effective complements
to the DFI as envisioned under this Project depends cn the continuation of a
favorable private sector investment climate. GOP has taken a number of steps
to remove controls inhibiting industrial development; more needs to be done,
however.  If progress in liberalizing industrial policy is slow, industrial
investment will also be slowed. However, this is unlikely in view of GOP' s
recent poliicy announcements.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    During negotiations, agreements or understandings between the Bank
Group and GOP were reached on:
(a) an annual review and appropriate adjustment of onlending rates
(paras. 3.21 and 6.04);
(b) contents of Statements of Strategy and Operating Policies
for PFIs (paras. 5.04, 5.10, 5.15, and 5.21);
(c) the formula for determining debt/equity and debt service
coverage ratios to be applied under the proposed project
(paras. 5.10, 5.15, and 5.21);
(d) time limits for each PFI to fulfill conditions of participation
(para. 6.02);
(e) onlending terms, conditions and spreads (para. 6.04);
(f) free limits and subproject reviews (para. 6.05);
(g) limit on financing pubLic sector projects (para. 5.06); and
(h) procedures for procurement, disbursement reporting, accounting
and auditing (paras. 6.08-6.10).
8,02    It is recommended that, as a conditions of effectiveness a subsidiary
loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank Group, be signed 'by GOP and at least
one PFI whose Board has adopted Statements of Strategy and Operating Policy
acceptable to the Bank Group (para.  6.03).
8.03    For each PFI, the f-ollowing are recommended as conditions of
disbursement:
(a)  adoption of revised Statements of Strategy and Operating
Policies (para. 5.26 and 6.03); and
(b)  adoption of a subsidiary loan agreement acceptablea to the
Bank Group (para. E.03).



-29-
8.04    The following are recommended as conditions for access to the pool
of unallocated funds:
(a) for the NCBs, establishment of appropriately staffed project
sections at the head office and initiation of a training
program, for project appraisal staff, acceptable to the Bank
Group (para. 5.02); and
(b)  for the DFIs, maintenance of a debt/equity ratio and debt service
coverage ratio acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 5.26).
8.05    It is recommended that the eligibility of an institution to
participate in the Project be withdrawn if:
(a) six months after signing of the Loan and Credit Agreements between
GOP and the Bank Group, the institution has not fulfilled its
conditions of effectiveness (paras. 5.26 and 6.02); and
(b)  twelve months after Loan and Credit effectiveness and institution
has not utilized fully its initial allocation of funds (para. 6.02).
8.06    The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$50 million (inclusive of a US$125,000 front-end fee) and an IDA credit
of US$50 million (SDR 47.3 million) to the Government of Pakistan.



-30-                           ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
THE COWf4ERCIAL BANKING SYSTEM
Background
1.      The commercial bank:Lng ,ystem in Pakistan predates the country's
independence. The oldest Pakistani bank was established in 1942 by the Habib
group of entrepreneurs and ihe Australasia Bank (now forming the Allied Bank)
was established in Lahore early in 1947. Most banking functions before
Independence, however, were carried out by numerous branches of banks having
their main offices in Bombay, Calcutta, and Delhi.  Most of these closed
their offices upon partition, so that Pakistan had to build up its banking
system practically from the ground up. In July 1948, the State Bank of
Pakistan (SBP) was establislhed as the central bank of the country. One of
its first functions was the issuance of currency to replace Indian currency
notes in circulation as a transition measure.  The first issue of Pakistani
notes was made in October of 1948. The second important function was the
promotion of banking companies. A Banking Companies Act was passed in 1948,
and the first new bank to be established, with government participation, was
the National Bank of Pakistan in November 1949. The existing Pakistani banks
were also encouraged to expand and the branches of foreign banks allowed to
continue their activities undisturbed.
2.      In the 1950s, banking expanded rapidly and important new private
banking institutions were created.  Important among these were the National
Commercial Bank in 1957 and the United Bank Ltd. (UBL) in 1959.' In the
1960s, two other important banks were established -- Commerce Bank and
Standard Bank. All during this time SBP carried out its central functions by
inspecting banking institutions. It also contributed to the formation of
professional bankers throug'h a centralized training scheme.
3.      As banking grew, GO'P felt the need to review the effectiveness of
banks in promoting economic development.  Already in 1959 a Credit Enquiry
Commission was appointed to examine the provision of credit to agriculture,
business, and industry, wit'h particular emphasis on primary producers and
small and medium sized establishments.  The Commission found that there was a
tendency for credit to gravitate towards small groups of entrepreneurs and to
be unavailable to small industrial and primary producers, and recommended
that measures be taken to redistribute financing resources. Acting on these
general recommendations, during the sixties, GOP sought to channel credit to
targeted sectors mainly through specialized institutions and other schemes



-31-                           ANNEX L
Page 2
financed by SBP. However, within the commercial banking system, little was
changed and in 1972 GOP saw the need to enact a Banking Reforms Act which
expanded significantly SBP's control authority over the banks; to the extent
of removing directors and management if necessary. Capital and reserve
requirements were raised and the reinvestment of a percentage of profits was
made compulsory. GOP felt that the banks were failing to play an effective
part in ensuring a wider and more equitable dispersal of the benefits of
economic growth. On the contrary, it accused the banks of concentrating
credit in favor of selected clients in urban areas, and neglecting the
strengthening of their capital base. Together with the banking reforms, SBP
introduced more specialized credit schemes for small producers in agriculture
and industry, but this time enjoining greater commercial bank participation.
These measures proved to be transitional and a prelude to the Nationalization
of Banks Act of 1974, whereby the SBP and all the commercial banks incor-
porated in Pakistan were brought under direct government ownership. The
directors and management of the banks were removed and replaced by government
appointees. The Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) was established to coordinate
the activities of the nationalized banks, which were merged to form the
presently existing five banks. 1/
4.      Since nationalization, the banking system has continued to expand its
operations and geographical presence, but this time under more direct govern-
ment control. Since then, GOP has also has continued to permit the estab-
lishment of foreign banks. As recently as in 1982, three additional foreign
banks entered the Pakistani banking industry.
Present Structure
5.      Presently, the commercial banking system in Pakistan comprises five
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) and eighteen foreign commercial banks
(Attachment 1). The system covers the entire country through an extensive
branch network, which at the end of 1981 totalled 7,305 banking offices
throughout the country, of which 59 in the main cities corresponded to
in-country branches of foreign banks. 2/ Because of their national character
and the number of their branches throughout the country, the five NCBs have
the biggest share of banking operations -- around 90% in recent years.
Foreign banks, however, are allowed to perform all the banking functions and
1/  Bank of Nahawalpur was merged with National Bank; Habib Bank Overseas
and Standard Bank with Habib Bank; Commerce Bank with the United Bank;
Premier Bank with the Muslim Commercial Bank; and the Pak Bank, Sarhad
Bank, Lahore Commercial Bank and Australasia Bank to form the Allied
Bank.
2/ Under an SBP regulation enacted in 1981 foreign banks are now limited
to three branches in the country. Branches existing prior to the regula-
tion are allowed to continue operating.



-32-                            ANNEX 1
Page 3
services carried out by the NCBs, including the use of SBP refinance
facilities under specific credil: lines.
6.      Most of the foreign banlks specialize in foreign trade operations and
financing of foreign corporations, joint venture companies, and the larger
domestic firms.  In this respect, they also make proportionately greater use
of the SBPs export finance credit lines than the NCBs, 44% against 56% of
total refinance granted by SBP in 1981. For these reasons, operational
results of the foreign banks have been proportionately more favorable than
those of the NCBs, although in 1980 and 1981 the difference has been reduced
as indicated in Table 1.
Table 1: Commercial Banks - Comparative Sharess of
Operations and Financial Results
(in percentages)
1978            1979            1980            1981
Foreign         Foreign          Foreign         Foreign
Banks   NCBs   Banks   NCBs   Ban'ks   NCBs   Banks  NCBs
Deposit                 5.4 - 94.6       5.8 - 94.2      6.3 -  93.7    6;8 - 93.2
Risk assets             8.1   91.9       9.7 - 90.3      9.9 -  90.1   10.3 - 89.7
Revenue before
operating expenses 11.7 - 88.3    12.9 - 87.1    13.1 -  86.9   13.4 - 86.6
Non-funds based
revenue              15.3 - 84.7    17.4 - 82.6    19.2 -  80.8   20.4 - 79.6
A.fter tax profits    28.4 - 71.6    31.0 - 69.0    39.5 -  60.5   25.7 - 74.3
Source: Grindlays Bank
Important in the activity of the foreign banks is that of the Middle Eastern
banks, which although relative newcommers have been very aggressive in their
operations with very satisfactory results. 1/
7,      The NCBs -while not as profitable as the foreign banks are operating
with satisfactory results. Being state owned, they have been charged with
broader socio-economic functions, the most important of which has been
resource mobilization.  Results obtained in this respect have been commen-
dable, but have required a significant expansion of the NCB's branch system.
In 1974, at thle time of nationalization, the number of domestic branch
offices was 3,705. By 1982, the NCBs had a total of 7,246 branches in the
country. This expansion has not been without problems. Some operating costs
have increased, some urban areas are probably overbanked, and there is futile
banking competition in some remote areas. The PBC is aware of these problems
and corrective measures have been adopted to rationalize tne branch expansion
1/ Their combined profits account for 43% of all foreign banks' profit. If
ECCI is included this percentage increases to 74%.



-33_                           ANNEX 1
Page 4
process, to stabilize staff recruitment at present levels, and to introduce
performance review methods at management and staff levels.
8.      Traditionally, Pakistani banks have also had a branch system abroad.
Branches were first established in the United Kingdom with which trade rela-
tions have always been important. More recently, the branch system abroad
has expanded as Pakistan's foreign trade diversified and as increasing num-
bers of Pakistani laborers migrated to Europe, the Middle East, Europe, and
Africa. By 1982, the NCBs had 199 branches abroad that contribute sig--
nificantly to deposits via workers' remittances and to profits through
foreign exchange and trade operations.
9.      Another important role assigned to the NCBs since 1979 is the alloca-
tion of specified amounts of their term financing to lending in consortium
arrangements sponsored by BEL and ICP (paragraphs 19 and 20).
10.     The NCBs' boards and chief executives are nominated by GOP.  In
recent years, care has been taken to maintain continuity of direction where
possible and justified. Overall the banks are well managed and free from
direct government intervention in their administration and credit decisions.
In fact, internally, banks have adopted different administrative structures.
Some are quite centrally managed while others are significantly decentral-
ized. Some emphasize foreign trade activities, others domestic operations.
These different management styles, freedom of operation, and traditional
different clientele, have made for diversity and healthy competition within
the system. However, three of the five banks are undisputably more
important--Habib, National, and United--in terms of the volume of their
operations and their impact on the economy. Of the remaining two--Allied and
Muslim--the latter is more aggressive and efficient. Allied is the smallest
accounting for about 5% of the operations of the NCBs. The following table
presents the comparative situation in 1981 (Table 2):
Table 2: Comparative Position of the NCBs (1931)
Capital                           Net
and Reserves Deposits Advances Profit Branches (No.)
(Rs billion)    (Rs billion)       (Rs million)
Habib Bank           1.1          31.0       19.1       122        1,845
National Bank        0.8          24.2       13.7        31        1,381
United Bank          0.7          23.3       16.0        44        1,670
Muslim Bank          0.4          10.9        7.2         5        1,341
Allied Bank          0.2           4.7        3.5         7          698
Source: PBC.
11.     The PBC plays an important coordinating role in the NCB system.  It
is also the communications link with the Government, as it permits the banks
to put before the Government proposals on banking legislation and regulation.
Additionally, the PBC formulates policy guidelines for the banks, reviews
their performance, and determines areas where corrections or greater coor-
dination is needed. The PBC, however, has no legislative or regulatory



-34-                           ANNEX 1
Page 5
functions. The first remair. wit:h GOP authorities, and are essentially con-
tained in the Banking Companies Ordinance of 1962.  The latter are the
province of the SBP which lays down reserve requirements, credit controls and
allocation, interest rate levels and structure, commission charges
guidelines, etc.
Recent Performance
12.     Deposits.  The following table presents comparaitivE! deposit figures
for the commercial banking system for the years 1978-1982:
Table 3:  Commercial Banks - Deposits
(Rs billion)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Demand Deposits                  17.7    21.6    24.0    25.6    28.3
Savings Deposits                 22.0    25.3    28.6    34.2    33.1
Fixed term under one year         6.7      7.2      8.4    10.5    10.3
Fixed term over one year          6.7      7.5      8.9    10.4    12.4
Total                    53.1    61.6    69.9    80.7    84.1
Source: SBP Bulletin.
Wqhile the overall growth in depcsits demonstrated by these figures is sig-
nificant in itself at 58% for the period, there are other salient aspects in
the pattern of bank deposits. Cine is the source of deposits. The banks have
traditionally tapped personal savings, and through the years have expanded
the base of personal deposits from 64% of the total in 1978, to 70% in 1982.
On the other hand, the importance of government deposits has been reduced
from 7.5% to 6%. Corporate savings have remained relatively constant at
around 18%. Other deposits from foreign and domestic constitutents have
reduced importance, down from 10.5% to 6%.
13.     The second important development is the savings promotion effort of
the commercial banks in recent years to reach larger numbers of depositors,
even in the remotest areas of the country. Between 1978 and 1982 the numbder
of depositors increased from 13.3 million to 18.1 million while the average
size of account rose from Rs 4,COO to Rs 4,600.  The growth in deposits was,
achieved without significant increases in the average rate of interest paid,
still around 6.25%, but rather through branching and marketing efforts,



-35-                           ANNEX 1
Page 6
14.     The third important development with respect to deposits in recent
years is the growing importance of fixed long term deposits, 1/ which have
increased by 85% between 1978 and 1982 (i.e. at a higher rate than other
deposits). There has been a distinct shift in preference from savings and
short term time deposits to long term deposits. Noteworthy is the develop-
ment of time deposits over four years maturity, which since having been
introduced in the third quarter of 1981 have grown to Rs 6,192 million or
7.4% of total deposits at June 30, 1982.
15.     With respect to other resources, the noticeable variations are in
increased borrowings from the SBP representing greater use of specialized
credit lines, particularly for export financing. In 1978, borrowings from
SBP represented 8.3% of total resources while in 1982 they stand at 11.8%.
The other important change in the resource base of the commercial banking
system is the continuous growth of the capital and reserve accounts, and the
important equity contribution to the NCBs by GOP during 1981. While in 1978
capital and reserves of the system stood at only Rs 1.9 billion, in 1982 this
figure increased to Rs 4.9 billion due to increase in paid-in capital sub-
scribed by GOP and SBP. Also, the NCBs have been allowed to strengthen their
capital by retaining net profit after tax; in the past they were required to
remit all profit to the Government (paragraph 30). An important improvement
has taken place in the gearing ratio, increasing the stability of the system
and of the individual banks.
16.     Advances.  In the period under analysis, bank credit grew at an even
faster rate than deposits, reflecting greater use of State Bank refinance
credit lines, and some relaxation of credit ceilings by the State Bank. In
1978, total credit was 69.7% of bank deposits, while in 1982 it constituted
78.4%. Under the credit allocation guidelines issued by the SBP the expan-
sion of credit was directed to the different sectors of the economy in about
the same proportion as in previous years. The following table compares the
development of the commercial banks portfolio by sector between 1978 and
1982.
1/ ?laturities over one to five years. These deposits totalled Rs 6,723
million in 1978 and Rs 12,425 million in 1932



-36-                           ANNEX 1
Page 7
Table 4:  Commercial Banks - Advances by Economic. Sector
For June 30                       1978        1979       1980       1981      1932
(Rs billion)
Agriculture, forestry,
hunt4ng and fishing              2,7         2.0         3.5       4,3       3.7
Mlining and quarrying              0.2         0.3         0.5       0.7       0.5
Manufacturing                      13.0       16.1        16.9      20.6      21.1
Construction                       1.0         0.9         1.1       1.2       1.2
Electricity, gas, water,
and sanitary services            0.3         0.2         0.4       0.5       0.5
Commerce                           9.0        11.(        12.9      13.9      16.1
Transport, storage and
communication                    0.5         0.5         1.1       0.7       0.7
Services                           2.9         3.9         6.3       7.5      8.5
Others                             2.5         3.7         4.2       4.8       5.1
Total         32.1        38.7       46.7      54.3      57.4
Source: SBP.
17.     These figures show the continued predominance of the manufacturing
secLor with 37% of bank credit.  The second most important sector is com-
merce, absorbing 28% of bank advances.  In recent years, the service sector
has developed and now receives 15% of commercial bank credit assistance. The
figures show some uneven treatment of the manufacturing sector and an overall
a rate of expansion of credit tc the sector slightly below the overall expan-
sion of credit, This is explained by the reduction of government investment
in manufacturing in the past three years because of its policy of limiting
public sector investment to BMR projects and promoting private investment in
the sector. The slack in public industrial investment was picked up by the
private sector only gradually, and even then the demands for bank finance
from private industrialists will not match in the short run the very large
demands made for public industrial enterprises in the past.
Profitability
180     With the expansion of the earning asset base and the consolidation
of the branch expansion effort, bank profits have increased from Rs 153
million in 1978 to Rs 235 million in 1981. These figures also represent a
favorable position in excess of the growth in deposits or in total assets.
This is explained in terms both of proportionately higher income and



-37-                           ANNEX 1
Page 8
proportionately lower expenditures. With respect to expenditures, between
1978 and 1981 staff and other operating costs 1/ increased 53% while earning
assets increased 78%.
19.     On the revenue side, it is important to note that while average
effective interest charged on loans dropped during 1980 and 1981 because of
greater allocations of concessional credit to financial sectors. In 1982
there has been a recovery to an effective average rate of 11.28%, largely
because of the use of Islamic instruments and other operations which permit
flexible interest charges. As interest rates, both on deposits and loans,
are freed within the context of Islamization and as leasing and other service
activities by banks gain in importance, revenues can be expected to increase
further. Also, bank charges have recently been decontrolled and should have
a position impact on profitability.
Role in Industrial Financing
20.     Since 1979, the SB? has allocated a term industrial financing role to
the NCBs by assigning to them specific allocations for this purpose within
the overall credit ceilings. These allocations, if not utilized, cannot be
channeled to other credit purposes by the banks. Initially there was some
reluctance by the banks to actively participate in the scheme. This reluc-
tance was based not on risk considerations or fundamental operational con-
straints, but on the low interest spread obtained. By regulation these loans
could only earn 11% p.a. while working capital loans normally earn 14%.
Still, the more cost efficient banks found that even with a reduced margin
these operations were profitable as they attracted or maintained other bank-
ing business which would be lost without term financing, e.g. letters of
credit, working capital, collections, foreign exchange, etc. The SBP through
the PBC also encouraged the banks to participate in the scheme, with the
following results:
Table 5: Commercial Banks - Credit Utilization
for Fixed Industrial Investments
Allocation          Utilization        Percent
----------(Rs billion)--- ()
FY79              0.6                   0.4            78
FY80              0.9                   0.8            90
FY81              0.6                   0.4            67
FY82              1.7                   1.4            79
Source: SBP.
1/ Not including cost of funds.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
21.     In FY1983, it is expected that actual disbursemlents of term loans to
industry during the year will be Rs 1.5 billion. The rapidl growth of this
portfolio was also aided by the partial liberalization of interest rates
through the adoption of participation term certificates. In parallel, the
banks 'have sought, and SBP has allowed, the reception of time deposits with
fixed maturities of five and more years, which have gained acceptance
rapidly, without significani: cost increases. This factor has reduced the
risk of conversion of short term deposits into longer term loans.
22.     Attachment 2 presents a breakdown of expected disbursements of term
industrial loans by the commercial banks during 1983. This indicates a rapid
rate of disbursement of projects sponsored by the banks themselves for more
than 30% of the amount allocated1 for the year for independent term opera-
tions.  Consortium projects have a lower rate of disbursement.  This would
seem to suggest that, in future, a greater percentage of industrial term
financing could be done directly and independently by the banks.
Prospects
23.     Prospects for the development of the commerciaL bantking sector in
Pakistan will be shaped by at least four major factors.  The first of these
will be the overall performance of the Pakistan economy and the demands that
the different sectors will make on the banks for funds and services. At
present, the prospects in this respect are for continued growth and a widen-
ing of the services demanded.  The second factor has to do with the future
rate of savings as Pakistan presently has a relatively low rate of domestic
savings at 7% of national income. There is scope for increased savings
particularly as income increases, becomes more widely distributed, and infla-
tion is checked. The third factor is the introduction of 'Islamic concepts
into the economy, particularly :Ln the financial sector, and the related issue
of freeing interest rates as a result of participation schemes. Results of
the limited experiments carried out seem to be satisfactory and as GOP is
committed to the idea, it is lilcely that this process will continue and will
be expanded. In this case, there is scope for increased bank deposits
attracted by higher yields and there is the possibility for the banks to
match these resources with credit demands maintaining adequate spreads. I'he
fourth factor that will directly influence the development of the commercial
banks is constituted by the policies that the SBP will pursue, particularly
with respect to reserve requirements, credit ceilings, credit allocation, and
other regulatory functions. Recent experience and statements point to the
likelihood of relatively flexibLe and judicious management of the system with
a tendency to free up regulationls as needed.  An exampLe in point is the
recent freeing up of service charges, on which banks can now compete freely.
This kind of attitude and actions will allow the system to develop in accord-
ance with the needs of the economy and permit it greater internal efficiency.
24.     Additionally, two other aspects can be expected to be continuing
features of the commercial banking scene in the future.  The first is the
banks involvement in industrial term financing, which is dealt with in more



_39_                           ANNEX 1
Page 10
detail in a separate chapter of this report. The second of these aspects is
the continuing role of the PBC in guiding and coordinating the NCB's
activities. In spite of the banks' improving performance that would seem to
justify a greater degree of independence and competition, this will most
likely not be the case particularly in new areas of banks' involvement such
as Islamic instruments, leasing, or industrial term financing. However, it
is felt that continued PBC action should not mean a departure from the
soft-glove approach utilized until now with much success. The relationship
between the PBC and the banks will continue to depend much on the per-
sonalities involved.
Some Aspects Relevant to the Project
25.     The aspects discussed below affect the commercial banking system in
relation both to policy decisions imposed on the system, as well as to the
internal operational efficiency of the individual banks.
26.     The two important policy issues are those of the interest rate levels
and structure and of the credit ceilings and allocation. SBP is charged with
regulating both. In the past, the levels and structure of the interest rate
have been utilized by SBP to pursue two contradictory objectives: increase
the rate of savings through attractive deposit interest rates and promote
investment in certain sectors and activities by offering low cost financing
for them through the commercial banks. The result has been a crossed
interest rate structure that had to be subsidized, either by GOP, the
non-preferred sectors, or the banks. The financial authorities have come to
recognize the problem, but are nevertheless reluctant to address this issue
directly and publicly in view of GOP's commitment to Islamization of the
economy. Rather, some relief was offered to the banks through low cost
refinance lines for specific purposes, e.g. exports. [fore recently, with the
adoption of Islamic instruments both for deposits and loans, the lid has been
taken off interest rate levels, at least on part of banking activity, and the
crossing effect partially eliminated. GOP is committed to proceed in this
direction, so that the interest rate as such cannot be discussed at present.
As long as the result is that of rationalizing interest rates to reflect
current price movements and market interplay between savers and users, GOP's
approach can be considered adequate. This, however, is an aspect to be
monitored carefully in the future and one on which a continued dialogue with
GOP is needed.
27.     The banking system in Pakistan has traditionally been subject to
quantitative credit controls. These have basically taken the form of credit
ceilings and credit allocation measures. GOP argues that because of the
interest rate distortions of the recent past and the predictable moves away
from interest rates, it needs to manage credit on the basis of quantitative
assignments. It further argues that this policy is in keeping with the needs
of a developing economy with limited resources and the need of maintaining
fiscal stability. The SBP monitors credit limits and allocations closely and
re-adjusts amounts assigned periodically. In practice this is the case; and,



ANNEX 1
Page 1 1
wnile the system appears rigid and cumbersome, so far no convincing arguments
can be made for inefficiency or distortions in making credit available as
demanded, particularly in the industrial sector.  Again, however, this matter
will need to be monitored closely.
28.      Five aspects of bank operations are of considerable interest in the
context- of the proposed project. The first is the quality of the banks'
portfolio as translated in recovery ratios and/or percentage of
non-performing assets. At present, the percentage of non-performing assets
is reportedly around 15% of total portfolio,   The bulk of non-performing
assets are in the public sector corporations and projects which were affected
by nationalization. Although the level of non-performing assets is not high,
PK  -as taken a number of measures to reduce them.  A Committee on Sick
Public Project has been established to address the financial problems faced
by the public manufacturing enterprises.  Also NCBs are no longer accruing
interest on non-performing asset:s in the public sector and GOP has set up a
signal-Ling system with the objective of monitoring and improving the finan-
cial performance of public enterprises.
29.      The second issue internal to bank operations is that of operating
margins.  Even though these have improved because of the growth of earning
assets, the freeing of the interest rate, and a relative reduction in expen-
citures, the incentive to develop service income was not of fered because of
tight regulations on service fees.  These have now been lif ted and greater
com-petition for fee-based sE:rvices is envisaged which should improve operat-
ing margins of the more efficient banks. Modernization of systems and proce-
dures (paragraph 30) should also contribute to more comfort:able margins.
_On      The third internal factor affecting bank operations is the gearing
ratio which in the recent past had declined to very low levels because of
GOP's earlier policy requiring NCBs to pay as dividend their entire after tax
profit,  This policy was changed in 1981, when GOP increased massively
paid-up capital of the NCBs to i mprove the gearing rati o and to enable the
foreign branches of NCBs to operate more freely in overseas markets.  GOP
will now only require Rs 50 mill-ion in total from the NCBs as dividend with
toe balance being retained as reserves to strengthen their capital base.  In
the future, however, as bank operations grow it will be necessary to see if
these measures are sufficient to maintain adequate capi tali zation.
31       The fourth issue internal to the banks, and of part:icular relevance
to -he IIC project, is the banks' project appraisal capability.  Since 1979,
the banks have found it necessary to adopt appraisal criteria and procedures
in the work of their corporate credit units to deal wit:h te!rm lending
proposals coming from ICP and BEL.  The experience initially obtained has
enabled the more aggressive banks to engage in term lending operations on
their own,  Again here, the role of the PBC has been important as BEL and ICP
proposals are channeled through the Council to form  the consortium and the
banks' agreement with or observations to proposed projects are discussed in
t'ne Council,  At present, banks do not have separate project appraisal units



-41-                           ANNEX 1
Page 12
as such, but there is interest in forming them under the auspices of the PBC
and with external assistance.
32.     The final issue internal to the banks is the question of staffing
and modernization of systems and procedures to improve services and produc-
tivity. In this area, there is a wide range of differences with some banks
using efficient computerized systems and others employing outdated processing
and accounting methods. Even within a bank there are differences. The Head
Office and the principal branch offices have better systems and facilities
than the smaller branch offices and rural agencies. This is in a way
unavoidable, but the banks must constantly move to integrate and modernize
their systems and procedures. Since most banks are overstaffed their ability
to move in this direction will need the full support of PBC, SBP and GOP.



-42-
ANNEX 1
Attachment I
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAI. INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Foreign Banks Established in Pakistan
1. Grindlays Bank
2. Bank of America
3.  American Express InternatiLonal Banking Corporation
4. Citibank
5.  Bank of Credit and Commerce International
6. Chartered Bank
7. European Asian Bank
8. Algemene Bank
9. Bank of Tokyo
10. Indo-Suez Bank
11. Bank of Dubai
12. Bank of Oman
13. Middle East Bank
14. Union Bank of the Mliddle East
15. Rupali Bank
16. Chase Manhattan Bank
17. HongKong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
18. Banque Nationale de Paris



-43-                         ANNEX 1
Attachment 2
Nationalized Commercial Banks
Fixed Industrial Investment Financing
Projected Disbursements during FY83
(Rs million)
Projects sponsored by:
ICP     BEL    NDFC    NCBs   Other Banks    Total
Habib Bank                229.0   199.8   21.8   122.3            -          572.9
National Bank              15.5    16.3   40.5    15.2            -           87.5
United Bank               197.7   226.8       -      42.7         -          467.2
Muslim Bank                75.0    95.0   27.4         -        15.4         212.8
Allied Commercial Bank   66.0    79.2    8.7    12.2              -          166.1
Totals                 583.2   617.1   98.4   192.4          15.4       1,506.5
Source: PBC.



-44-                           ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
ISLAMIZATION OF PAKISTAN'S FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Introduction
1.      Although the Constit:ution of Pakistan (1973) requires that all exist-
ina laws conform with the injunctions of Islam, only since 1977 when the
present Government took office, has the creation of an Islamic economic
system become a major governmenl: objective.  A Council of Islamic Ideology is
charged with preserving orthodoxy in religious matters, or:ienting public
affairs towards Islamic tenets and advilsing the Government on Islamization of
the economy.  For the last few years the Council hlas been reviewing the
country's laws to determine whether they are in accordance with the Shari'ah
or Islamic cannon law and in June 1980 produced a blueprint: for the elimina-
tion of interest from the econorny. 1/ Although the abolitLon of interest
occupies a key position in t:he establishment of an Islamic order, it must be
seen as an integral part of a wlder attempt to establish an ideal Islamic
society based on the principle of social justice. 2/
Islamization of the Financial Svstem
2.      A central objective of :he financial Islamization process is the
abolition of riba or interest. Although there is disagreement among Islamic
scholars as to whether the injunction on riba refers only 1:o usury or applies
to any form of interest, the Government has adopted thes view that interest,
defined as a predetermined fixedi return for the use of money, is inconsistent
with the Islamic system.  The injunction against riba involves a rejection of
a particular mode of capital pricing, namely fixed interest: rates, which
offends the Islamic philosophy and should therefore nol: form part of the
policy instruments available to policy-makers in an IsLamic economy. The
1/i  Report of the Council of- Islamic Ideology on the ELiminiation of Interest
from the Economy, June L980,,
2/  As part of the process of economic Islamization, the Government also
introduced two religious levies, Zakat and Ushr.  Zakal  is a levy of 2.5%
p.a. on wealth, and Ushr a 'Levy of 5% p.a. on agricultural income of
landowners in irrigated and barani areas.



-45-                           ANNEX 2
Page 2
focus of the reform is not simply on abolishing interest but on replacing
it with financial mechanisms acceptable to Islam in the short run, and by a
more fundamental readjustment of all basic social and economic relations in
the long run. The abolition of interest is then regarded as a necessary but
not sufficient condition for the establishment of an Islamic system.
3.      To enforce the Islamic injunction against interest, alternative means
must be developed to price capital appropriately. In the economics of Islam,
capital is not considered a separate factor of production, but is inex-
tricably linked with enterprise in a profit and loss sharing arrangement;
capital shares both the profits and the losses of the enterprise in which it
participates. The concept of profit and loss sharing (PLS) becomes the
guiding principle of Islamic reform and in different forms seeks to replace
the traditional concept of interest as the means of pricing capital. In
accordance with this principle, the Government has introduced the following
changes in Pakistan's financial system: (i) PLS deposit counters in commer-
cial banks; (ii) interest-free loans for agriculture and students;
(iii) Musharika financing for working capital needs; (iv) Participation Term
Certificates (PTCs) to replace debentures; (v) Modaraba companies to replace
mutual funds; and (vi) a number of financial institutions operating on an
interest-free basis. Since GOP is introducing these changes gradually,
Pakistan's financial system is presently operating under both conventional
interest-based principles and new Islamic modes of financing.
4.      Bank Deposits.  On January 1, 1981, interest-free counters were
opened in most branches of Pakistani banks and one foreign bank. These
counters function in parallel with conventional bank operations, giving
depositors the choice of operating an interest-free or an interest-bearing
account. Depositors choosing the interest-free or PLS option share in the
profits/losses of investments financed with funds deposited in the PLS
accounts of each bank. Since funds deposited in PLS accounts can only be
invested in non-interest bearing operations. The SBP has stipulated that a
number of operations such as commodity financing, trading operations and
import bills can only be transacted on a mark-up or commission basis, which
are consistent with Islamic principles using funds from PLS accounts. Five
to ten percent of the profits of such operations are kept in a reserve fund
to offset possible future losses and equalize rates of return over time. An
important incentive to savers is the income tax exemption of up to Rs 15,000
p.a. on PLS accounts.
5.      Since their creation PLS deposits have grown rapidly.  On June 25,
1981, total PLS deposits amounted to Rs 2.6 billion and a year later stood
at Rs 7.9 billion, with Rs 3.3 billion in savings deposits and Rs 4.6 billion
in time deposits and accounting for 10.3% of total deposits in Pakistani
banks. 1/ Rates of return on PLS accounts are declared every six months and
1/ As of March 31, 1983 total PLS deposits increased further to Rs 14.2
billion, or 14.3% of total deposits with the banks.



-46-                           ANNEX 2
Page 3
have been consistently higher than the minimum rates OnI conventional deposits
prescribed by the SBP. Annualized rates of return on PLS accounts during
FY82 varied among banks and ranged from 10.75%-12% for six month deposits to
14.5%-15.5% for deposits of five years or more. HIinimum annual rates on
interest-bearing deposits of equal maturity range from 9.0% to 12.75%,
respectively.
6.      Bank lending.  Since October 9, 1979, banks have extended a small
amount of interest-free production loans to subsistences farmers and fishermen
for the purchase of seasonal. inputs and to cover maintenance costs. These
loans which have a ceiling of Rs 6,000 are mostly disbursed in kind.
Borrowers who fail to repay within two months of harvesting have to pay the
ongoing interest rate.  Since July 1, 1981, the banks have also made
interest-free loans to deserving students who must repay when they complete
their studies and find employment.
7.      On June 1, 1982, the nal:ionalized commercial banks launched the
Musharika financing scheme designed to meet the working capital requirements
of trade and industry on a ]PLS basis. A Musharika can be defined as a
business arrangement whereby thes parties contribute capital and/or
entrepreneurial skills and share the profits according to a pre-agreed
formula. A loss, however, -is shared in proportion to the funds contributed
by each party. As with any other contract the conduct of a MIusharika is
governed by the terms and condit:ions of the agreement freely reached by the
parties.  Use of the Musharika funds, however, must be consistent with
Islamic principles. Banks will restrict their role to monitoring the com-
panies' performance and Bank funds shall not form part of the companies'
equity. In order to reward management performance, the banks allow a manage-
ment bonus to be paid out oE realized profits. The pre-agreed bonus is
payable upon achievement of projected profits and may vary according to
performance.  In cases of shortfall, banks may pay the management bonus at a
reduced rate instead of forfeiting it completely.
8.      The SBP is encouraging banks to extend Musharika financing to
selected customers and so far about 20 agreements have been announced.
Although there is considerable uncertainty as to how Musharikas will operate
in practice, expectations are that, at least initially the rate of return for
banks will tend to be around 14%, which is the current rate of interest on
working capital loans. Thus, in terms of return on funds, Musharikas will
not differ from conventional working capital loans.
9.      In addition to Musharikas, two other financing arrangements conform-
ing to Islamic principles are being introduced gradually: hire purchase
(Bai Salam) and leasing (Baj Muajjal). Under an interest-free hire purchase
agreement, in addition to repayment of the principal the financial institu-
tion receives a net imputed rental value in place of interest. In the case



-47-                           ANNEX 2
Page 4
of leasing, 1/ Islamic financial principles are likely to be incorporated by
providing for variable and adiustable lease rentals.
10.     On June 26, 1980, the legal framework of Pakistan's financial and
corporate system was modified to permit the introduction of a new financial
instrument and a new form of company, both conforming to Islamic principles;
the Participation Term Certificate and the MIodaraba company.
11.     Participation Term Certificates (PTCs) are transferable corporate
instruments based on the PLS principle and are intended to replace debentures
for raising medium and long-term local financing for industry and trade.
Tnstead of receiving interest, as in the case of debentures, PTC holders will
share in the profits/losses of the issuing companies. PTCs can be issued for
up to ten years, are secured by a fixed mortgage on company assets, and the
claim on company profits supersedes the shareholders' claim. Although the
PTC share of profits should be based on the ratio of PTCs to the company's
paid-up capital plus reserves, PTC agreements so far have specified a fixed
share of profits. PTC holders are only being allowed to retain an amount of
profit equivalent to 17% of the face value of the PTCs in each accounting
year. Furthermore, if the company pays the share of profit within 30 days of
the close of its annual accounts, the company will be allowed a rebate of 2%
and PTC holders will retain a share of profit equivalent to only 15%. Losses
in one year can be made up by the company out of profits earned in subsequent
years. A small sample of the financial projections of projects requesting
PTC financing, however, indicates that project sponsors take 15% p.a. as the
cost of PTC funds. One feasibility report, for instance, warns that "... the
project is not expected to pay full return of 15% to PTC holders in the first
year
12.     PTC financing was initially restricted to the operations of the ICP,
the NIT and BEL, but has been extended to include the NCBs. As a result,
most of the NCB consortium term financing is now being done by PTCs.
Although this type of lending technically represents higher risk for the
banks, returns will be substantially higher than the 11% ceiling imposed by
the SBP on conventional term lending. During 1982, PTC financing through ICP
and BEL-led consortia amounted to Rs 1.2 billion.
13.     A ?lodaraba is defined as a business in which one party participates
with capital and another with effort and skills, and profits are distributed
in agreed proportions. A M'odaraba company can also be a company engaged in
the business of floating and managing Miodarabas. Modaraba companies can be
floated only for purposes permitted under the Shari'ah and must be approved
by a Religious Board. Income is tax exempt provided 90% of the income is
distributed to Mlodaraba certificate holders while losses are shared among
1/ IFC is currently assisting GOP in setting up the legal framework neces-
sary for the introduction of leasing,



-48-                             ANNEX 2
Page 5
cer __ f`cate holders after recourse to reserves and unappropriated profits.
If accumriulated losses exceed. 50% of subscribed capital, the Modaraba company
must be wound up.
14.      In addition to the introduction of financial instrulments consistent
with Islamic principles, the Government has converted the operations of a
number of financial intermecLiari-es to a non-interest basis, On July 1, 1979,
the NIT, the House Building Finance Corporation and IC?, began divesting
themselves of their interest-bearing  financial operations and from January 1,
1980 began to operate entirely on an interest-free basiLs.  On June 26, 1980,
the Small Business Finance Corporation was fully converted to interest-free
operations F BEL was establi-shed on October 10, 1979, and registered as the
first Iodaraba company in Pakist:an.
Evalation
15:      The Government is tread:ing a careful path between the need to intro-
duce new financial practices consistent with Islamic tenets and the need to
avoid a disruption of the flnancial flows required by a modern industrializ-
ing economy. For institutions dealing with foreign loans and credits, the
Co-verrument has given an assurance that they will continue to function on the
basis of interest. The Government has continuously ernphasized its determina-
-c oa  o continue the process of Islamization but has underlLined the need to
proceed gradually and cautiously.  As a result, Pakistan's financial system
s undergoing a process of change which no doubt will continue as
Islamization proceeds further and as experience with the new system grows.
Islamization of the financial system has been in operation for too short a
period to permit a full evaluation of its economic impact, but some potential
effects can be discerned already.
160      The rmost important and noticeable effect of Islamization so far has
been the freeing of financial rates of return, particularly for term lending.
Since GOP has chosen not to impose restrictions on the tenns and conditions
that can be negotiated between Lender and borrower, the new instruments are
more responsive to market condii:ions in the financial sector.  This applies
Darticularly to PTCs, hire-purchase and leasing. In a(ddition, evidence
gathered frormL interviews with managers of financial institutions dealing with
Islamlic instruments, indicates That they have evolved business practices
which.  while consistent with Is Lamic principles, reduce considerably the
uncertainty inherent in a PLS system. It appears that every effort is made
by financial institutions to prevent borrowers from declaring returns which
woruld be lower than the equ:ivalent return obtained under an interest-based
ope at ionn   At the same time, indications are that in the case of short-term
leinding, institutions will expect returns not higher than returns available
on working capital loans (i.e. 14% p.a.).  Returns for term  funds are
expected to be set at 15% pDa., (possibly higher for leasing), which repre-
sencs a more realistic pricing of capital than the controlled rate of 11% for
interest-based term lending,  This development represents a major improvement
fo-r the NCBs, which before lhe introduction of PTCs were directed to provide



-49-                          ANNEX 2
Page 6
increasing amounts of term financing for industry at the unprofitable rate of
11% p.a.
17.     Lending and investing on a PLS basis will require considerable
strengthening of the project appraisal and supervision capabilities of finan-
cial intermediaries, particularly the commercial banks. Since a lender's
return technically depends on the borrower's profitability, the commercial
banks, which currently provide most of the working capital financing of trade
and industry and a substantial proportion of term financing, will be forced
to focus more on the viability of particular projects rather than relying
almost exclusively on their clients' creditworthiness. At the same time,
because of the higher risk inherent in this participatory mode of financing,
lenders are likely to demand greater accountability from the corporate sec-
tor. Greater accountability, tighter accounting and auditing requirements,
and an improved flow of information from the corporate sector would be a
welcome development in Pakistan.
18.     In its desire to move to an interest-free system, GOP has precluded
the use of interest rates as a policy instrument, even though most of the
financial system continues to operate on the basis of interest. Although the
system seems to be evolving alternative means to price capital--which need
not be inconsistent with efficient financial intermediation and resource
allocation--the Government has reduced its policy flexibility by abandoning
interest rates during this transition period. As a result, the Government
is likely to want to continue to rely on a highly centralized and regulated
system of credit allocation to meet its developmental objectives.
19.     There is considerable danger that during this transition period, in
which both systems work in parallel, companies with high rates of profit and
investors with profitable projects will opt for interest-based financing,
while less profitable and more risky ventures will prefer PLS arrangements.
Unless considerable control is exercised by the authorities, the PLS segment
of the financial system could be burdened with a high concentration of less
profitable or more risky operations. The need to prevent this segmentation
of portfolios will require the continuation of a high degree of regulation
and government intervention in financial markets. In addition, it is
possible that the higher involvement of lenders in project appraisal and
supervision, as well as the higher risk implicit in the PLS system, could
increase the cost of financial intermediation.
20.     A further potential problem relates to the term transformation
possibilities of a PLS system. If the use of funds is strictly separated
according to their origin, the provision of term lending for investment would
be limited by the volume of term deposits and the banks' function of trans-
forming short-term liabilities into long-term advances would be severely
constrained. Even where term transformation takes place, because of the need
to declare returns every six months and the strong competition between banks
to attract PLS deposits, the system has a potential bias in favor of
short-term quick-yielding investments. Thus, it is possible that long-



-50-                           ANNEX 2
Page 7
gestation industrial projects would be disadvantaged in relation to trade
financing. In order to prevent this, the Government will continue to inter-
vene directly in financial markets and maintain a tight control on the system
of credit allocation.
Conclusion
21.     Pakistan's limited experience with financial Islamization appears to
be having a generally positive e!ffect on the financial system by allowing
rates of return to reflect more accurately market conditions, particularly
for term lending. Although some of the potentially negative effects appear
to be more a result of the transition phase taking plac:e in the system, it is
likely that one of the consequer.ces of the-process of Islanmization will be a
continuation of government intervention and control of financial markets and
crer4{t allocation. Government aLuthorities, however, appear to be approaching
the process of Islamization caut;iously and responsibly.  Financial institu-
tions, in turn, seem to be adept at evolving financial mechanisms which,
while consistent with Islamic principles, enable them to operate under condli-
tions very similar to those prevailing in a conventional financial system.



-51-                           ANNEX 3
Page 1
PXKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFIs)
NATIONALIZED COMMlERCIAL BANKS
A. HABIB BANK LTD. (HBL)
1.      Background.  The Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL) is Pakistan's largest nation-
alized commercial bank (NCB). As of December 31, 1982, HBL's total assets
amounted to Rs 63.9 billion (US$4.9 billion) compared with Rs 41.5 billion of
the National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) and Rs 38.6 billion of the United Bank
Ltd. (UBL). HBL has 1845 branches in Pakistan and 83 established overseas,
including 77 full branches. In 1981, HBL was rated as 484th largest bank in
the world based on the size of its deposits. Unlike other NCBs at the time
of nationalization in 1972, HBL was able to retain the core of its original
staff and has operated more on a commercial basis. Table 1 below provides
statistical highlights of HBL's operations for FY78-FY82.
Habib Bank Ltd
Key Ratios (FY78-FY82)
Total        Net         Return on   Return on
Deposits    Advances    Assets        Profit        Equity (%)  Assets (X)
-------- (Rs billions) -------  (Rs millions)
FY78        20.1         10.8        30.6         91              21           0,3
FY79        23.2         13.5        34.9         99              21           0.3
FY80        27.9         16.2        41.7        105              20           0.3
FY81        31.0         19.1        48.1         122             15           0.3
FY82        40.8         23.1        63.9        273              24           0.5
Source: Habib Bank Ltd.
2.      While HBL performed well in terms of mobilizing deposits (26.9% p.a.
growth) its profitability as measured by return on assets has been marginal.
This is due to SBP policy of maintaining high reserve requirements and credit
allocation to priority sectors at lower interest rates. However, GOP has
recently allowed the banks to keep most of the profit after tax. Conse-
quently, HBL's profit increased dramatically in FY82. There is also a



-52-                           ANNEX 3
Page 2
ge.s ~imDrovement in effficiency as the higher growth levels in FY82 were
re a,"  _ d .ithout any net increase in staff,
3       Oro-zanization.  HBL's organization chart is provided in Attachment L.
nBL Is ma age&y7 an executive board consisting of the president of the bank
andc thiee executive vice presidents.  Each senior executive looks after a
portfolio of departments.  The Executive Board is assisted by a Central
Credit Gomlaittee, which is chaired by a senior member of the Board.  The
Credit Committee is empowered to approve transactions of up to Rs 40 million
w1hen aceacuate Ifunding is available, or Rs 20 m:illion when funding is
-required-  Lending over and above these limits must be sanctioned by the
Executive Credi7t Committee, which is chaired by the president of the bank.
Also, a'll textile loans, loans to the public sector and major loans to cus-
tomers overseas are decided by the Executive Board.  Both committees normally
meet twice ea-h week and decisions are fairly rapid.  Althcugh HBL appears
central-zed, there is significant delegation of authority t:o the regional and
branch level managers to enable them to provide good services to their cus-
tamers.  The mission's review shows that HBL's internal credit procedures,
4X   f:ranci1 evaluaton, supervision, Inspection, auditing are satisfactory
even by American standards.  Overall, HBL is relatively well managed.
4. ,    Medium and Long Tem Project Financing,  Applications for medium and
longDJ tarm loans are handled in the Corporate Credit Division (CCD) of HBL.
Suc'h Loans are limited by amount to not more than 20% of the paid-up capital
an' general reserves of the bank, as stipulated in the official credit
regule.tions for commercial banks, established by the PEC. Very large loan
anpliuations are handled in the Syndicated Loans Division (SLD) where all
syndication propositions. which reach the bank from BEL, or one of the
devielopment banks (e.g. NDFC, PICIC) are researched, processed, judged and
when necessary commented upon.  Both the Corporate Credit and Syndicated
Lo ns Divislions are supervised by a Senior Executive Vice President, who is
also a Member of the Executive Board of the Bank.
5.     nThe CCD and SLD work closely together; they are well staffed with
qualaired and experienced officers 1/ and the Senior Vice Presidents in
chsn ue of all the respective Divisions can avail themselves of the services
of the staff zoncerned.
.       FoHistorically HBL has been a prominent financier of textile mills and
other 1arge and mediuim size induLstries in the country. It has built up an
expert ose for Judging performance, appraising capabilities of Managers and
promoters, identifying managerieLl and financial weaknesses in industry and
industrial investment projects. However for term lending operations, HBL
needs to strengthen its capability of economic analysis through training and
!  ic`llectively the two divisions have 32 qualified profecsionals includinrig
cananical analysts, economist, lawyers and banking specialists.



-53-                           ANNEX 3
Page 3
secondment of staff overseas. The cost of such training will be funded under
the technical assistance component of the proposed project.
B. UNITED BANK LTD. (TJBL)
7.      Background.  UBL was set up as a private bank in 1960 and exDanded
very rapidly. It was extremely well managed and had a cadre of highly
qualified professionals. However, following the nationalization of commer-
cial banks in 1974, UBL lost a large number of its first and second tier
managers (including the president) to the Bank of Credit and Commerce Inter-
national (BCCI). 1/ The situation was further exacerbated by the great
demand for Pakistani bankers in the Middle East following the establishment
of many new financial institutions to invest the substantial funds available
following the oil price increases in the early and mid 1970s. Because of the
departure of the chief executive and poor operational performance of UBL,
GOP and the PBC recently appointed Mr. T. Hussain, Senior Executive Vice
President of Habib Bank Ltd., as the new president.
8.      UBL is now the third largest bank in Pakistan.  is of December 31,
1982 its total assets were Rs 38.6 billion (US$3.1 billion). As of same
date, UBL had a total branch network of 1722 branches including 52 overseas
units, he network of banking facilities overseas consists of 25 full
branches in Middle Eastern countries, a subsidiary with six branches in
Lebanon, a joint venture bank in the Sultanate of Oman, with ten branches:
26 branches in the United Kingdom, one branch in New York and one branch in
Switzerland.
9.      Because of the exodus of professionals and lack of leadership, UBL's
financial results during the last five years (FY7B-FY82) have been erratic as
indicated by its key operational ratios (Table 2).
1/ BCCI is a multinational bank with headquarters in Luxemburg established
by the ex-president of UBL. BCCI is managed mainly by ex-UBL Pakistan
and South Asian bankers.



-54-                           ANNEX 3
Page 4
Table 2: Key Ratios (FY78-FY82)
Total        Net       Return on   Return on
Deposits    Advances    Assets        Profit      Equity (%)  Assets (%)
(Rs billions)   --                 (Rs millions)
FY78        17.3         10.2       24.4         36            17.2        0.16
FY79        20.1         12.1        28.1        37            15.7         0.14
FY80       21.1          13.9       30.4         17             6.3        0.06
FY81        23.3         16.0        33.6        44             8.4        0.14
FY82        27.1         18.5       38.7         38             3.9        0.10
Source:  United Bank Ltd.
10.     Organization.  UBL's organization chart is shown in Attachment 2.
UBL is completely decentralized reflecting the style of its founder. UBL's
management control the operations of the bank through a comprehensive manage-
ment information system (MIS) anti by control of major lending decisions,
including all applications for working capital and term loans.  UBL has an
Executive Board and an Executive Credit Committee which approve all loans
above Rs 40 million. Branch, zone and regional managers have varying degrees
of delegated authority. The system works well due to the effective manage-
ment information system.  However, over the next few years, UBL proposes to
consolidate its operations and improve productivity which will mean tighter
control from the head office.
11.     ledium and Long-Term Project Financing.  UBL has been actively
involved in term lending and is the major user of the IDA Credit for SSEs.
Since UBL is highly decentralized, loan applications for both working capital
and term loans are processed at branch, zone or regional level. Applications
which require approval at Head Office are prepared in the regional offices,
which directs the loan application to the senior officer in charge of the
corresponding region circle at Head Office and in turn to the Credit
Committee.
12.     Syndicated loans are directed to the Coordination Division which
studies how UBL will be affected by participating in the syndication.
Feasibility studies are reviewed by the Research Department. 1/ Disbursement
of funds are handled by the Finance Division as soon as participation in a
syndicated loan has been approved in the Coordination Division.
1/ UBL has an effective Research Department, which has carried out many
sector and market studies.



-55-                           ANNEX 3
Page 5
13.     UBL's management is interested in participating in the proposed
project and has agreed to set up a unit at Hiead Office with the respon-
sibility for handling project loans. The unit will be headed by an officer
with experience in project finance acceptable to the Bank/IDA and will be
staffed by at least three professionals (financial analyst, engineer,
economist). UBL will further strengthen its staff capability in the areas of
economic and financial analysis through training and secondment of staff
overseas. The cost of such training will be funded under the technical
assistance component of the project. Although UBL's management is keen to
participate in the project, UBL will need at least a year to build up the
capability to the level, which will meet the eligibility criteria. However,
if UBL could build up the capability faster, then the Bank Group should allow
UBL to participate in the project sooner.



-56-                                                     ANNEX 3
Attachmnet.t 1
s                                       'rHabib  Thank  Limited
ORGANISATION CHART
PRESIDENT
Abdul  Jabber  Khan
KoOO  Ci _'l.                     Olrel C,I 
_~~~Eh .                              _...I=
lolOo e      o.1, 0000 -1 ,oloidln* C.0't,oI Oooo:l,                           - oJC   .C Kf''
OpoooOo. K- roehO   |.| KoroIEd .                         !
... hi    i                          I                            _-t:E-~1' _
C Lo0ol 0101-  Kcro. =                       Cilo    '                Co,00o 0jr  _
90000  010:1*    -   -       05,00000 COOO: 10                F 00.0100.}
-_ _ cl 0
*.oloooi Cootro 1.r  KEl                                         0,ooi,ig l 00 Rn inc oK1-
_   OOOr * K ,,d.oI,*0 01001.5    _ BuO$SIO0  Frolo:0110           101 100000, t   0.abt11    _
0* 0,00Oret   d -l      j       01  _0 C                                     _
Kond S.1o*ooIlnc A00*I I I                                      I
Koos*ooO *100 00,. 0.11   I ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     . lll
p_ rSonnel  Division,        01 no,,      |        lodiO4 0oj O.ooo*o,oo,*
Ho,oroJAcohiKo.lror C1001         K:oebO   i  COo,|.             ond C.o*rcl oosa  Coo,,
| o              l      |oVxrs@O~00.-., 0ro000*n/Jo10S    o*oo  K FFt10 GIvsbn Kooro,h i
OI Oe..s 10    nhl7            0  f1s[   wro  Clo. C  ock| 0* ooo,             hr 
'| 4etr/ersttv CIKI  0  0*- 0500od]                             |A_0lidigdpopss
- 0*110,.          ............hrdt|                                  hR o 
_______                      01015ntinlGNiio  
l        l  _4    Cust=|w-z S*rvC         I ~~~~OsIKo                  _i,101.
|~~~~~~K,*o *0*0O0.*v.010
005*0.00 5.rOlo.  50K,. BooKlo0             0*,.flloo,O    .,*,o*
lrc~~~~~ ~o                                                                                     .. 1  L c ool okn  yocosn rot.'    
|,o*o K7mmn o T.T,l.o. K        Ko0*. D  7por7m0nt               0001 | l Koro 0.,t D,,,.,on*
C.*0  Mox*L.l l 0.0-00   1                                                s.o,1  (0.00 01110
|       Olh Fioroll*l0     01000sa Kollymn                                000000 |0000. | d  0*dnoinCl  H    vlo
Prepared by:                                                                                                                     Dt .27-2-1 983
Personnel Division,
Head Of fice ,Kraeshi,



UNITED BANK LIMITED
OrganizatFon Chart
(As of March 1, 4983)
PRESIDENT
Mr. Tajammal Hussaln
SEVP/MEB                                       SEVP/MEB                            1          SEVP/MEB
Mr, A Majid Khan                            Mr. Muhamnmad Usman                              Mr. M. Sahrem Malk
R                                                    ISTRTIO
INTERNATIONAL DMSION   1                    PERSONNEL & ADMINISTRATlON]                         KARACHI CIRCLE 'A'
(OVERSEAS WING)                       _            DMSION                                                      VP
Mr. M. Yusuf Shalkh, EVP   J                    Mr. Ikramullah Mir. EVP                      Mr.               . S
(IDrMETIC WMION                                   R FINANCE DMSION                              FAISALABAD CIRCLE
(DMr.SMIH WING)sh.~                          Mr. A Razlq SIddIqI. EM'P                      Mr. Qayyum AJ-Makky. S.IP
LAH-ORE CIRCLE      1KARACHI CIRCLE B'                                                        MULTAN CIRCLEP
Mr. M. Yusuf Shah. EVP    ]                    Mr. AH. Farooqul, SVP                          Mr. S. Talat Hussaln. SP
RAWALPINDI & PESHAWA    1                        INSPECTION DMSION                          HYDERABAD & QUETTA CIRCLES
CIRCLE                                  Mr. M. Shamim Naziri, EVP                       Mr. Ikhlas Ahmed, VP
Mr. Athar Hameed, SVP
AZAD KASHMIR CIRCLE    1                      COORDINATiON DMSION  1                            COMPUTER DMSION
Mr. Z.A Khan, VP    j                        Mr. S. Mollb Raza. EVP                        Mr. Khald Sherwanl, EM
CREDIT|DIVISION                                LEGAL DMSION                             C STOMER SERViCES DMSION                                                                       |t
CREDIT DMSION  j                 ~~~~~~Mr. B.K. Soyany, SM'                   Mr. Molnudcdln Ahmed, FVP                                                                    r
Mr. M. M. Sabir, EVO                                                j                   ___________  ___
FRAUDS & FORGERIES CELL  IPLANNING & DEVELOPMENT1                                                                                                                                         or
Mr. M. Osman, SVP                                                                                  WIMN. G
Mr. Rashid A Nagra. SVPj
World Bank-25235



-58-                            ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKI STAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP)
I. INTRODUCTION
Background (1961 - 1980)
1.       IDBP was established in August 1961, to finance small- and medium-
sized enterprises through the reorganization of the Pakistan Industrial
Finance Corporation (PIFCO). In, 1969, it was 58% owned by the Government
and Government institutions, and 42% by private institutiortal and individual
investors. In 1974, the private shareholdings were taken over by GOP under
the nationalization of the domestic banks. The private shareholders received
interest-bearing compensation bcnds based on estimated break-up value.
TDBP's initial share capital of Rs 20 million was increased to Rs 50 million
in 1970 and in FY81 was doubled to Rs 100 million with GOP owning 90%
directly, and the remainder being held by the four provincial governments
and various government-owned institutions.
2.      Although initially profitable and financially sound, the overall
position of IDBP began to deteriorate after 1970, due in large extent to tlhe
series of political and economic changes in Pakistan. Having transferred its
head office to Dhaka in 1970, IDBP had to re-establish itself in Karachi in
1971 as a functioning institution, following the independence of Bangladesh.
Its organization had to be drast:ically restructured; new management was
appointed at all levels and the system of accounts had to be reconstituted.
The operational difficulties faced by many of IDBP's projects, caused to a
large extent by the loss of assets in Bangladesh, created further problems
for IDBP in terms of loan collections and consequently in its liquidity
position and debt servicing capacity.
3.       IDBP's operational difficulties were exacerbated irn 1972 by a massive
devaluation of the rupee (from Rs 4.76:$1.00 to Rs 9.90:$1.00), which more
than doubled the debt service burden of IDBP's foreign currency borrowers.
In addition, the industrial sector was also negatively affected by the
effects of the oil crisis, the general rise in price levels that followed,
and the nationalization measures undertaken by the Government up till 1977,
which made a number of industrialists reluctant to invest further funds in
their industries, thus reducing demand for new 1oans.  At the same time, the
textile sector, which then accotunted for about half of IDBP's portfolio as



_59_                           ANNEX 4
Page 2
well as arrears, suffered from several years of low international prices and
slack demand.
4.      In the early 1970s, GOP and IDBP took steps to overcome the problems
created by these events, which were virtually beyond IDBP's control. Most of
these steps were aimed at strengthening IDBP's institutional structure.
Competent management was appointed and qualified individuals recruited to
fill vacant senior staff positions, and a training unit was established to
provide in-house training. IDBP hired a local consulting firm, which under-
took a review of IDBP's organization and operational procedures. The con-
sultants' recommendations were subsequently implemented by IDBP.
5.      However, the improvement in IDBP's overall position expected from
these measures did not materialize. The political and overall economic
uncertainties after the 1977 elections, which continued until mid-1979,
contributed to a great extent to the continued deterioration in IDBP's over-
all position. In addition, the worldwide economic recession adversely
affected Pakistan's cotton textile sector, which in turn created difficulties
throughout the domestic economy. By the late 1970s, the major part of IDBP's
textile loans were in arrears.
6.      Another factor that contributed to the difficulties of IDBP (and of
other financial institutions in Pakistan) in reducing its arrears was the
inadequate legal procedures to expedite the recovery of debts. While 80% of
IDBP's total arrears in the private sector were due to operational difficul-
ties, the remaining 20% was considered to be wilful defaulters. This unwill-
ingness to repay arose because some industrialists did not honor their
obligations since they knew that IDBP was unable to institute effective legal
recourse and that further loans could not be granted due to IDBP's lack of
foreign exchange resources. There was also the widespread feeling that it
was unfair of IDBP to require sub-borrowers to repay their loans at exchange
rates under which IDBP stood to make a foreign exchange gain on overdues.
The right of IDBP to collect devaluation gains was challenged before the
courts. 1/ As it took several years to resolve litigation, IDBP found that
1/ In December 1981, the Sind High Court ruled that the foreign currency
obligation to a financial institution would be settled by the payment by
the borrower of the rupee equivalent based on the exchange rate prevail-
ing on due date, as indicated in the relevant amortization schedule.
However, in order to resolve once and for all the issue regarding the
exchange rate basis of sub-borrowers' repayment, a presidential order
dated February 28, 1982 was issued, ruling that repayment of foreign
currency loans would be based on the rate of exchange prevailing on the
date of actual payment by sub-borrowers and that all court decisions
inconsistent with the Presidential Order were declared null and void and
of no effect. With this order, the ruling of the Sind High Court was
nullified.



-60-                           ANNEX 4
Page 3
the moment a suit was filed, even borrowers who previously, paid some amounts,
no loniger continued their payments; even if a judgment favorable to IDBP was
obtained, laquidation procedures were protracted.  As a result, IDBP found it
disadvantageous to resort to litigation and did so only as a last measure
when negotiations failed.
7,      By 1980, the impact of economic and financial difficulties was such,
that the institutional and operational fabric of IDBP had been severely
weakened. IDBP lost a number of experienced and capable senior staff, par-'
tlcularly to the Middle East, and also suffered from an acute shortage of
tecnnzcal staff such as engineers and financial. analysts.  As a consequence,
the quality of appraisal procedures deteriorated and supervision of projects
becaTme inadequate.
IDEP's Role in the Economy
8.      Since its inception iin 1961, IDBP has provided Rs 5.5 billion of
financial assistance (foreign and local currency) to about 4,400
sub-borrowers. IDBP's impact on the development of small and medium
industries in Pakistan is underscored by its emphasis in granting small
industrial loans. Some 68% of all loans approved were for Rs 1.25 million or
less (with an average loan size of Rs 0.5 million), another 11% were for
loans between Rs 1.25 million and Rs 2.5 million (with an average loan size
cf RPs 1.9 million), and the remaining 21% for more than Rs 1.25 million (with
an average loan size of Rs 10.0 million).  Becauise of the concentration of
activities on smaller loans, IDBP has a relatively large staff compared to
the total value of its processed loans, and in terms of percentage to average
loar; portfolio, its administrative expenses are understandably higher (1.4%
in FY83) than a DPI which lends to medium and large industries.
9.a     Of the loans approved since inception, 46% have! been to cotton and
ot'her textile enterprises; 12% to food processing industries, with the
remaining 42% spread over 24 industrial subsectors includiclng engineering,
chemicals and electrical goods. The bulk of TDRP's lending (72%) has been
Lor new enterprises, with the balance (28%) applied to the balancing, modeirn-
izing or rehabilitation of existing units.  In line with GCP policies, TDBP
has directed lending operations to the less developed provinces. This
effort is translated in terms of the regional distribution of its lending
activities: 42% of total approvals were for projects in Purnjab Province,
42% in Sind Province, 12% in Northwest Frontier Provinc.e (NW;FP) and 4% in
Baluchistan Province.  While this geographical lending pattern is consistenit
-wi-i-h -he population distribution among the four provinces, IDBP is expanding
i-s lernding operations in NWFP and Baluchistan.



-61-                          ANNEX $
Page 4
II. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Board and Organization
10.     Board.  The overall control and direction of IDBP is entrusted to a
Board of Directors consisting of six members, including the MKanaging Director
of IDBP who is also Chairman of the Board.   All members of the current IDRP
Board are high-ranking Government officials; while the composition of IDBP's
Board reflects the level and orientation of its activities (i.e., assisting
small- and medium-sized projects in the four provinces), apart from the
Managing Director, who is experienced in development banking, all the other
directors are experts in the field of government industrial policy.  In June
1983, GOP added two directors to IDBP's Board.  One of them is the Chief
Executive of a DFI and the other is the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
This action should strengthen IDBP's capability in deal 1i4g with a more com-
petitive environment.
11.     Organization.  In 1974 consultants reviewed IDBP's organization and
proposed a restructuring of IDBP's functions. The recommendations were
slightly amended by IDBP and subsequently, with considerable delay, imple-
mented in 1981. Under the reorganization, three functional groups were
created - Operations, End-Use and Planning. The End-Use Group is responsible
for implementing IDBPs' "Arrears Recovery Program"; and the "Planning" Group
is responsible for providing the necessary staff/research support to the two
operational groups and to IDBP's management on planning and strategy formula-
tion (this Group has absorbed IDBP's research and statistics sections).
While the organization structure proposed for IDBP's operations in 1974 was
simple, functional and appropriate to that time, the financing needs of
industry - and IDBP's relevant organizational needs - had changed sig-
nificantly by 1982. To meet these requirements, there is now a need for IDBP
to capitalize on its status as a scheduled bank and identify and promote new
instruments for generating local currency resources, to create an appropriate
functional grouping for this purpose and to recruit necessary staff.  Given
IDBP's current operating position and the need to adapt its operations to the
needs of its borrowers, IDBP should carry out a review of its operations.
IDBP will be able to finance the review from technical assistance funds under
the IIC project.
12.     As part of the needed review of IDBP's organization structure,
emphasis should be given to the role of the Planning Group and in particular,
the role of the Economics and Research Department, which is now part of the
new Planning Department. This department is staffed with competent officers,
but is burdened with many routine tasks and its work program has no focus.
It has been in charge of (a) preparing the annual report; (b) financial
projections and planning; (c) project identification and subsector work; and
(d) reviewing subprojects (loan applications) as part of the appraisal proce-
dure. In practice, little is done on economic research work (pro4ject iden-
tification and subsector work). Instead of its concentration on project
work, the Economics Department should be consulted only on relatively large



-62-                           ANNEX 4
Page 5
or difficult subprojects.  Other subprojects need not be reviewed since they
-an be handled by the Loan Department which prepares the appraisal report
and normally undertakes economic analysis (ERR, Bruno ratio). This adjust-
ment of procedures would release a considerable amount of staff time in the
Economics Department for subsector work and/or other economic work. IDBP's
economic/sector work, could be further improved by encouraging the participa-
tion of staff from the Statistical UJnit.  The Unit, which is staffed with 15
professionals, including many trained statisticians, is presently attached' to
the Economics and Research Department, but has functioned quite independently
and has been assigned to co'Llect and process only data on IDRP's operations.
It would be beneficial for -[DBP to consider using part of the statistical
staff's time to collect and/or p)rocess economic/industrial data within the
framework of a better integration of the unit with the Economics and ReseaLrch
Department. This aspect has been discussed with IDBP and would be incor-
por-ted in the implementation of the Department's work program.
13.     Branches.  IDBP has four regional offices:  (i) Karachi (with three
branches) covering Sind and Baluchistan; (ii) Lahore (with two branches)
covering the Punjab; (iii) Rawalpindi (with two branchs) covering the
Rawalpindi-Islamabad area and Azad Kashmir; and (iv) Peshawar (with two
information counters), covering the North West Frontier Province (NWFP). The
regional offices are organized on lines similar to the Head Office and the
departments in the regional offices are answerable to the respective depart-
ments in the Head Office. The regional offices process and sanction loan
applications of up to Rs 1.25 million and process loan applications for
Rs 1.25 million to Rs 2.5 million for sanctioning at t'he Head Office. On the
whole, the relationship between the Head Office and the regional offices
ensures operational efficiency without sacrificing control from the Head
Office.
Management and Staff
14.     Management.  The present Managing Director, Mr. Bashir Ahmad, was
appointed in May 1981, prior to which he had been Managing Director of PICIC.
He is assisted by three Depu-ty Managing Directors (DMD), each heading one of
the three major groups in IDBP, i.e. Operations, End-Use and Planning.
15.     Staff.  As of December 31, 1982, IDBP had a professional staff of
about 330. The percentage turnover of professional staff has been high, but
has dropped from 14% in FY77 to 5% in FY82 partly as a result of the recent
increases in benefits. However, despite the FY79-FY80 review of compensation
for IDBP staff, their benefits are still not equivalent to those paid by the
NCBs and this is still one of the main causes of staff resignations. IDBIP
has recently taken a number of measures to improve the compensation package
for its middle level management.  Salary and grade adjustments are now more
frequent and are no longer strictly tied to seniority. This has resulted in
a general improvements in morale, and lower turnover, among staff.



-63-                          ANNEX 4
Page 6
16.     Training.  IDBP has an adequate and well-balanced training program.
It includes in-service training, courses organized with the cooperation of
local training institutes and universities, and sending staff to interna-
tional seminars conducted by EDI, ADB, Industrial Bank of Japan, etc.  In
addition, the DID and other officers have undergone "on-the-job" training
in institutions abroad with ongoing successful activities in subsector/economic
research and corporate planning.  Training programs for FYg4-FYS6 have been
agreed with IDBP. Under these programs, IDBP plans to intensify training of
its professional staff and would utilize technical assistance funds under the
project for this purpose.
III. POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
17.     Strategy.  IDEP operates within the framework of a Strategy Statement
prepared in 1981 and a policy statement prepared in 1970.  The main features
of the Strategy Statement are that IDBP should: (a) diversify its lending
operations by emphasizing sectors other than textile such as engineering,
chemicals, cement, sugar, electronics, sports goods and handicrafts;
(b) emphasis on priority projects which are export-oriented, agro-based,
labor-intensive or located in less-developed areas; (c) intensify its project
identification/promotion efforts in line with its portfolio diversification
objective; and (d) implement an "arrears recovery program" which seeks col-
lection targets and actions geared towards improving the quality of its
portfolio in the private sector. In this regard, improvements in its project
appraisals would be sought and would include better "feedback" of experience
with defaulting clients and projects experiencing difficulties; ne-w loans
would not be made to clients in default and more importantly, IDBP would
ensure that identified problems of client/project would have been resolved as
part of its approval of loans to enterprises in the same industry.
18.     Policy Statement.  IDBP has recently adopted a new Statement of
Financial and Operational Policies. The strategy was discussed and agreed
upon during negotiations. The major features of the Statement are that:
(a) IDBP will aim at (i) generating a 12% net return on equity;
(ii) maintaining a debt service coverage ratio of not less
than 1.1:1; (iii) maintaining a debt/equity ratio of not more
than 5:1, and a return of 1.25% on its assets;
(b) IDRP's total exposure to a single enterprise shall not normally
exceed 15% of IDBP's networth (including GOP subordinated loans);
(c)  IDBP's total equity investment would not exceed its networth; and
(d)  the minimum equity contribution of borrowers would normally not be
less than 30% of the borrower's total fixed assets after completion
of IDBP's financed project.



-64-                            ANNEX 4
Page 7
19.     Appraisal Standards.  Under Cr. 117-PAK and subsequently under
Cr' 1186-PRK , IDBP took action to improve its appraisa:L standards and proce-
dures.  These actions included project appraisal by project: teams and the
caic-ulation of economic/financial rates of return and domestic resource
Costs.  Hcwever, since 1980 the need has been noted for TD13P to:
(a)  improve the presenta-tion of appraisal reports 7ny detailing the
teasiS of assumptions; andl using more annexes as needed;
(b)  re.3ort on procurement wiLth a summary of the analysis and
just1-iEcation of procurement procedure followed/tenaders received;
tc2 uipdat:e appraisal reports prior to submission to IDA or execution
of loan agreements; and
(d)  adopt a policy of caution in financing new applications in
projects/industries which are experi4encing difficulties,
indicating the observed problems and how the sponsors of new
projects expect to resolve them; particular attention being
given to market, management and economic aspects.
7D31P'  exoosure limits and lending policies are prudent and appropriate, but
ihas been agreed that TDBIP shall obtain the prior approval of the Bank
b'efore making any amendment in its Policy Statement.
zO.     There is also a considerable need for improvement in IDBP's subsector
work a,d project promotion, particularly as IDBP plans to diversify its
portfolio further beyond textiles.  IDBP's intention to strengthen subsector
work and project promotion is commendable and should be supported.  Under
Cr. 1186-PAK TDA has agreed to Fund the services of an external consultant as
well as trhe 'on-the-Aob" training of some IDBP officers.  The consultant
would be expected to: (a) review the work program and recommend priority
subsectors to be studied, takin,g into account IDBP's Strategy Statement,
arrears position, and pipel:ine of projects; (b) participate and guide the
preparation of subsector studies/surveys, and project profiles; (c) recommtend
imnrovemer!ts in the role/functions of IDBP's Planning Department including
its organization, staffing, and training program. IDBP has recently final-
ized negotiations with a candidate for the post of the Economic Advisor and
he is expected to join IDBP in early 1984.
21.     Tnvestment Policies.  A large part of IDBP's portfolio is still at
risk and reflects the historical concentration in sectors such as textiles.
Thu 9 t1here is a need for IDBP to redirect its lending strategy and achieve
greater diversification of its portfolio.  Provision was made under
Cr '136-PAPK for technical assistance in the area of subsector analyses to
help TDBP identify economic growth sectors (paragraph 20).  As part of its
strategy on portfolio diversification, IDBP should establish exposure
guidelines limiting lending to certain sectors.



-65-                           ANNEX b
Page 8
22.     Project Supervision.  IDBP's End-Use Department (hUD) whTic  is
responsible for follow-up and collection activities, has a satisfactory
organization and procedures.  Regional offices/branches are responsible for
follow-up of clients and with adequate feedback to head office throughl a
regular reporting system.  In this regard, IDBP's accounts are classified
into retail and wholesale projects and into four categories. Ti.is class--
ification provides guidelines for the frequency of visits and type of
reports to be prepared, given the size of loans, amount and age of
arrears, and status of account (inspection reports for projects under
construction/disbursement, project completion reports and operation rep' orts
also cover problem Drojects, under litigation or under rescheduling arrange-
ments).  IDBP uses the "inspection" reports in monitoring and authorizing
loan disbursements; the reports are based on quarterly visits (more often if
a project is in difficulty) and includes verification of assets, mortgage and
utilization of disbursements; as a policy, IDBP disburses directly to sup-
pliers of goods ad services and based on satisfactory reports on loan
utilization. EUD in head office concentrates on special studies of problem
projects, debt rescheduling of companies with large arrears including
public sector accounts, overall monitoring, control, planning, and strategy
formulation.
IV. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
Resource Mobilization
23.     IDBP's foreign currency resources have come from bilateral credits
and borrowings from IDA and ADB. From its inception up to June 30, 1983,
IDBP mobilized a total of $480 million, of which $395 million had been dis-
bursed, leaving $85.0 million available for disbursement.  This unallocated
amount was mainly composed of the second IDA credit of $30 million, 1/ a
credit line of US$40 million was made available by ADB in June 1983. The
balance was in the form of bilateral credit lines from the Federal German
Republic, Belgium, France, Denmark and Italy. Availability of foreign cur-
rency resources will enable IDBP to accelerate the pace of lending and
implementation of approved projects in the coming year.
24.     IDBP's rupee resources for financing of fixed investment come
mainly from SBP's refinancing credit lines for buyers of locally fahricated
machinery. As of June 30, 1983, IDBP's credit lines from SBP for this pur-
pose totalled Rs 500 million, of which Rs 350 million had been utilized.
1/  As of September 1, 1983, Cr. 1186-PAK, was fully committerl



-66-                           ANNEX 4
Page 9
Lending Operations
25.     General.  Since its inception in 1961, through June 30, 1983, UDBIP
has provided Rs 6.1 billion of funding for 4,600 projects.  From FY61, andg
more particularly since FY715, IDBP's level of activity has been uneven,
reaching a low in FY77 with cancellations exceeding approvals, and a record
'nigh of Rs 600 million in FY83.  In IDBP's approach, a loan becomes approved
once funds have been allocated and the borrower has fulfilled the formalities
and effectiveness conditions to IDBP's satisfaction. Because of a lack oi-
forei-gn currency resources, only 45% of IDBP's foreign currency approvals
from FY76-FYB2 have been co-mnitted, while about 75% of its commitments have
been disbursed.
26.     Industrial Lending.  Since its inceDtion, about 66% of IDBP's loans
hav- been to new enterprises and 32% to existing enterprises for BMR
projects. The average size of a loan has been about Rs 1.3 million although
loans above Rs 10.0 million account for about 50% of total lendings. The
sectoral distribution of lending has been biased heavily to the textile
sector which has received 22% by number and about 45% by value. In this
regard, IDBP's Strategy Statement contains a policy of diversification, with
financing of the textile sector now limited to BMR prcjects.  During FY83,
industrial lending was mainly for food industries (28%), textile (18%),
non-metal minerals (7%). Therefore, it is clear that IDBF' has been making a
conscious effort to diversify its portfolio. In making its recent industrial
loans, TDBP has followed the major financial guidelines Set out in paragraph
18.
27.     Equity Investments.  IDBP can make equity investment in its assisted
projects. However, it has not been active in this area since FY78. As of
J.une 30, 1983, IDBP's equity investments totalled Rs 24.9 million, accounted
for by nine public sector companies, i.e., Rs 3.6 million in ICP, NIT, Equity
Participation Fund, and Rs 21.3 million in six manufacturing enterprises.
28.     Developmental Impact.  IDBP has received two IDA credits and a numnber
of loans/credits from ADRg and other donor agencies. Through these loans, and
particularly those in the mid 197Os, IDBP has played a positive role in the
development of small- and medium-scale industry, although more recently in
line with the changes in the financial sector, it has tended to concentrate
its lending operations on medium- to large-scale capital intensive projects.
Since FY76, IDB;P's financial assistance has averaged 5% of total fixed
investment in the private manufacturing sector and 60% of the fixed invest-
ment cost of TDBP financed pro!ects.  From vY76, IDBP's projects have gerer-
ated about 20,000 new jobs at an average job cost ratio of Rs 87,200.  Gross
foreign exchange earned/saved by IDBP's projects accounted for about 0.9% of
total exports during the same rperiod, with export earnings of Rs 112.0 mil-
lion annually by projects completed during FY81 and FY82.  A sample of sub-
projects financed under Cr. 177-PAK showed ex-ante IFF'Rs of 14% to 35% and
ex-post IFRRs of an average of 24%. On a sample of 42 projects approved in
FY80-FY82, IVRRs range from 12% to 40%; IERRs range from 13% to 50%; DRCs



-67-             AN7EX A
Pa-ge 1b
calculated for 16 prolects were below the exchange rate, ranging froin  's 5.0
Lo Rs 8,6.  The ex-poost IERR calculated for nine projects (14% ol tihe   r;zlej
financed under Cr. 177-PAK had a mninimum of 16% which is satisfactory.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Financial Position
29.     IDBP?s Balance Sheets for FY79-FY83 are shown in Attachment 1.
During the period, total assets increase by 10% per annum, networtn increased
at 14% r.a. including the increase ifn paid-in capital of Rs 50 mlillion in
FY81, while total borrowings grew at 12% p.a.; due to increasing arrears,
IDBP resorted to SBP cash credits to meet its liquidity requirements, resulcl-
ing in an increasing debt/equity ratio which in FY80 was 11:1; the contrac-
tual debt/equity ratio 1; of 5:1 was exceeded in FY80, necessitating an
additional equity infusion of Rs 50.0 million by GOP in FY81.  Since FY78
there has been an appreciable increase in IDBP's borrowings which. have risen
from Rs 1.4 billion in FY79, to Rs 2.2 billion in FY83, of which 30% was in
foreign currency and 70% in local currency.  The local currency borrowings
included (i) SBP refinance facilities for the procurement of locallv manufac-
tured capital goods; (ii) subordinated Government loans; and (iii) SBP cash
credits for liquidity support.  Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement far
Cr. 1186-AKY requires ID1P to maintain a debt/equity ratio of 5:1.  As of
June 30, 1982, TDBP had a debt/equity ratio of 5.6:1. In December 1982, GOP
provided IDBP with additional equitY of Rs 50 million, rescheduled cash
credits of Rs 648 million over five years, extended the maturity of an exist-
ing subordinated loan of Rs 151 million_ and converted maturing debts to GOP
of Rs 336 million into subordinated loans. This arrangement broughnt IDBP's
debt/equity ratio down to 4.1:1 by June 30, 1983, which complies with IDA's
prescribed limit.
Profitability
30.     Attachment 2 shows IDBP?s summarized profit and loss statements for
FY79-FY83.  On an accrual basis, IDBP has achieved an average growth of 7%
p.a. with its gross income reaching Rs 261 million in FY83. Net profits for
FY79-FY83 average Rs 11.7 million.  IDBP's profitability was marginal until
FY83 when it earned 16% on equity. Administrative expenses were Rs 37.0
1/  Under Credits 177-PAK and 1186-PAK, debt is defined as all debts, includ-
ing deposits, but excluding (a) accounts payable and similar liabilities;
(b) debts guaranteed maturing not more than one year at the time they
were originally incurred; equity is defined as the aggregate of (a) total
unimpaired capital surplus, and free reserves: (b) IDBP's Special
Development Fund; and (c) loans subordinated to other debts and ID)BP's
share capital.



-68-                            ANNEX 4
Page 11
milon fr F7Y83, re-presenting 1.4% of total assets which is reasonable; 1/
acc1M-.!17ated provisions of Rs 178 million were 7% of total portfolio.  IDRP
;- aes r7: p-'ovs-ion annually, lbased on a case-by-case review of its accounts
and cca:ares amounts due to estimated realizable values of collaterals
inC'ldu1ng an assess7.ent of potential collections.  Based on the results of
its arrears r .ecoverl program, IDBP reviews the adequacy of its provision
anrnualiv   The provisions together with the unaccrued interest booked in the
suspe.ee account are adequaite to cover potential losses.
Liqu i'dl_vPonsition,
31      D'ue  -.o l ow collections, IDBP has not been able to service its debts
from internal cash generation (paragraph 35), but has had to rely on cash
credlis froi SBP.  These credits increase(d froim Rs 151 million in FY76 to
Rs 61i7 rd 1 lion at the end oF FYB2 and have stabilized at that level due to
th  oprovements in collectton.  Also, under Cr. 1186-PXK and the recent ADB
c-edit  7new cash credit linas from SBP are to be provided to IDBP at half the
aink rate (5%) unti` 1987.  This will have a very positive impact on IDBP`s
capital base and debt service capacity (paragraph 29).
32      Messrs. A. F. Ferguson and Co.,  and Ford, Rhodes, Robson, Morrow
Chartered- Accountants - continue to be IDBP's auditors.  The quality of the
audit repcrt is satisfactory although submission to IDA of the long-form
audt has been. beyond the required period of six months.  IDBP's "short-form"
audit is prepared within four months of the fiscal year and should be sub--
iltied to IDA -within this period.
VI.  PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
'9ualitv of Portfolio
33,     Foreign exchange fluctuations have created special problems for
-D321Pas collection activities.  These in turn have resulted in a serious
deterioration in the quality of the portfolio.  In 1972, the rupee was
*-.alued from' Rs 4,76:US$1.00 to Rs 9.90:US$1lO00; more than doubling the
ru,pee e,.uivalJnt of debt obligations of IDBP's clients who carried the for-
eigr slckange risk and resulting in more clients incapable and sometimes
1-inwlllig to pay the larger amounts due.  IDEP's loan documents stipulated
thaL rp'enavmert by clients should be made at the foreign excbange rate
p      a    g at -he time of repayment.  Since IDBP had mLet its foreign debt
i/ Comnared to NDFC and PICIC, this ratio is high. However, it compares
favorably to the ratios of other development banks; in Asia with similar
Operations, i.e., small and medium scaled industries.



-69-                           ANNEX 4
Page 12
obligations as these fell due at the pre-devaluation rate prior to receiving
repayment from its sub-borrowers, IDBP showed an initial gain of Rs 214
million, which increased to about Rs 800 million as of June 30, 1982   In
this regard, IDBP's policy is to recognize these amounts as income only wnen
they are actually collected. This is appropriate since many of its clients
have disputed IDBP's rights to collect these amounts and the problem is still
before the courts. GOP's position has been to declare that the matter of
repayment will be left between the sub-borrowers and financial institutions.
Under the repayment arrangements on IDBP's public sector companies and based
on a case-by-case review, it has been agreed that foreign exchange loans
would be converted into rupee equivalent at rates prevailing at the time they
fell due and thereafter treated as IDBP rupee loans; in effect, this meant
that a higher interest rate would be charged in lieu of the foreign exchange
gains.
34.     Under agreements with GOP, IDBP's public sector portfolio is not at
risk as GOP has guaranteed payment of accounts due or has allowed IDBP to
offset arrears against amounts due by IDBP to GOP. On the portfolio at risk
the trend in arrears and infection of the portfolio has been as follows
(Table 1):
Table 1:  TREND IN ARREAR
FY79     FY80      FY81      FY82      FY83
Arrears (Rs million)
1.  Total arrears                   722       776       711       907      877
2.  Total at risk                  1261      1351      1296      1652     1615
3.  Total portfolio                1444      1478      1643      2019     2357
Arrears Ratios %
Arrears                               50       57        55        55        54
Portfolio Infection                  87        80        79        82        69
Collections
35.     An analysis of IDBP's recoveries for the last four years is provided
in the Attachment 4. A summary is given in Table 2. IDBP's recoveries
performance for the last two years is in line with the target set under Cr.
1186-PAK. However, the recovery level is still very low and IDBP will need
to achieve much higher levels if it is to become financially independent and
not subject to continued support of GOP or the SBP. As cases under litiga-
tion are beyond IDBP's controls, it is more realistic to assess IDBP's per-
formance by using the ratio of cash collections on current dues to current
dues. This ratio shows that collections have increased from 30% in FY8O to
58% in FY83. However, as this ratio reflects the quality of loans approved
in the last three to five years, the ratio should be at least 75% to arrest
an increase in the level of arrears. Under the proposed project, IDBP has



ANNEX 4
-70-                           Page 13
agreed to initiate actions that should enable it to reach t:his level by FY86
(Daragranh 51).
Table 2: TREND IN RECOVERIES
(Rs million)
Cash collec-  Cash collec-
Current  Total  Resched-        Cash collection            tion/total   tion/current
dues   dues    uling    Past: dues  Current  Total        dues (%)        dues t%_
FY8O      74    2,102       98         119         74     193          9             30
FY81       97    2,018    943          115         97     212         11             47
FY82     159    1,369       24          89        159     248         18             51
FYR3     216    1,614    258            98        216     314         19             58
Arrc ,rs Recovery Program
36.     GOP Measures FY81-FY82.  During FY81-FY82, GOP in close cooperation
with IDA has taken the following, measures to support collection efforts in
the private sector by IDBP and other financial institutions in Pakistan.
These measures include: (i) a Special Recovery Ordinance; (ii) credit cur-
tailment by NCBs; (iii) restriction on investment sanctions;
(iv) establishment of a GOP pro-ject review committee for sick projects headed
by Secretary, Ministry of Finance; and (v) a joint GOP/IDA review of sub-
projects and of IDBP's collection performance.
37.     Special Recovery Ordinarnce.  GOP has passed a Special Recovery
Ordinance which facilitates settlement of collection claims by the commercial
banks, PICIC and IDRP through the following major provisions:
(i)  establishment of spEtcial courts to handle onlv col:Lection cases:
(ii)  simplified and continuous court procedures;
(iii) no appeals allowed unless a cash deposit equal to amount decreed
is made;
(iv)  public officers asked to assist in collecting decreed amounts;
(v)  additional security on existing loan if original security is
inadequate; and
(vi)  contractual interest rat:es charged from the date of decree until
date of payment.
GOP has appointed two special iudges in Sind Province, and one special judge
for each of the other three provinces.  While the mechanism for the implemen-
tation of the Ordinance is in place, its full effects are still to be real-
ized since the special courts are not yet fully operative and the rules and



-71-                          KA`;NTEX 4
Page 14
procedures are still being improved. GOP has confirmed that IDBP has the
option to opursue Its cases under th is Special Recovery Ordinance or under
provisions of its own Ordinance as amended.   in some instances, the latter
has more advantageous provisions such as lower court fees, amounts due cer-
tified by TDBP are final, designated IDBP officers have the authority of
I'public" (government) officers in enforcing collections, etc.
38.     Credit Curtailment.  GOP and the SBP have curtailed commercial bank
advances to borrowers irn default in their repayment to TDBP/PICIC. The
Pakistan Banking Council has issued corresponding instructions to commercial
banks with emphasis on clients with arrears of over six months and cases
filed in court; overall objective of this procedure is to arrive at satisfac-
tory rehabilitation settlement.
39.     Investment Sanctions.  GOP has imposed restriction on companies or
groups of companies in default with IDBP and PICIC from getting investment
sanctions under the non-repatriable investment (NRI), Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE),
suppliers' credit or any other schemes until the arrears are cleared or an
arrangement is made with IDFP to meet the liabilities.
40.     Project Review Committee.  GOP has established a committee headed by
Mr. H. U. Beg, Secretary, Ministry of Finance, to carry out reviews and
decide on actions to be taken on sick units in the private sector whicil are
in default with IDBP.  These units include medium/large projects wnich have
remained closed for more than one year, or operating units with substantial
accumulated losses, and small units with foreign currency loans of up to
Rs 1.0 million.
41,     GOP/IDA Review.  One of the special conditions of Credit 1186-PAK is
thar IDA would have the option to withhold authorization of subprojects if It
considers that measures and performance of IDBP are inadequate under its
arrears recovery program.  In 1ine with this condition, a GOP committee in
consultation with IDBP and IDA, has commenced a formal review of IDBP's
arrears recoverv program starting with the period ending December 31, 1q81.
GOP now holds semi-annual meetings.  For this purpose, IDEP submits progress
reports to IDA containing actual performance versus targets on:
(i)  cash collections for public sector and private sector accounts
broken down into existing loans as of June 30, 1981 and new
loans;
(ii)  special studies completed on problem projects, indicating
recommended action and timetable of actions taken or to be taken.
(iii)  number and amount of rescheduling and write-off;
(iv)  number and amount of court cases filed and resolved (decreed)
during period, including outstanding cases at the end of the
period (wilful defaulters under separate classification);



ANNEX 4
7w                      ~~~~~~Page 19
(v)  number and amount of cases l`c.uidated, actual and expected
collections or write offsf 
(viq  suirniary statement of collections and arrears for the period
ro'k.en down into Public Private sectioons; and
vi i'  proposed new actions/raeasures of IDBP's arrears recovery program.
4?-     LProDosed Measures - Y83. Additional to the measures already in
place  IDA has proposed the following actions to help IDBP improve its
operating capabilities and arrest the continuing increase of arrears in its
portfolio
(i)  revision of its Strategy Statement and Operating Policies
to reflect the changed operating environment, the need for
appropriate sectoral exposure limits, and identification of
areas of investmentt growth potential;
(ii)  determination of staff levels appropri.ate to TDBP's operation
with particular reference to the needs of end-use operations;
(ioi 3completion of a portfolio review by negotiations; and
;iv)  Dreparation of detailed regional/sectoral collection targets
for FY84-nv5.
VII. PROSPECTS
43      The general business prospects for DFIs in Pakistan are like'-, to be
good due to the continued improvement in the investment climate and GOP's
policy of promoting private industrial investment. With its new busirness
strategy and restructured balance sheet (paragraph 45), IDRP should be able
to perf-orm much better over the next two to three years; than in the past.
Until 1931, IDEfP did not h2ave adequate resources, neither the management
str-uctu.re to expand its operations.  It was mainly prec,cupied with the
ouem.s of ar-rears and was unable to grow and diversify.  Barring any major
political upheavals and economic downturns, IDBP shoulH be able to grow and
gradually regain its market shares.
P roected %Daratiofns
44.     A summary of IDBP's projected level of operations for the FY84-88 is
provided in Table 3 below.



ANNEx 4
Page 1-
Table 3. Summary of Projected Operations (FY84-88)
(Rs million)
FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86       FY87     FY88
(Actual)
Loan approvals (net)      460       542       611       689        777       876
- Local currency        (270)    (287)      (330)    (380)       (437)     (502)
- Foreign currency      (190)    (255)      (281)    (309)      (349)      (374)
Commitments               425       261       297       332       382        440
Disbursements             373       541       718       640        663       749
TWTorking capital loans    -        25        225       275       400        400
Deposits                   -        25         150      200        200       200
Source: IDBP; FY: July I-June 30.
IDBP's term lending operations are projected to grow from Rs 460 million in
FY83 to Rs 876 million in FY88. This assumes a nominal growth rate of 13.8%,
or a real growth of around 6% p.a. Given that under the SFYP the private
industrial investments are projected to grow in real term by 22% p.a., TDBP's
projected operations are modest and achievable. IDBP also has a good
pipeline of projects (Annex 7).
45.     One of the main objectives of IDBP's new business strategy is to
increase the volume of working capital loans and finance these loans by
deposits. IDBP has so far been constrained from doing so by its Charter,
which restricts working capital lending. The Charter was amended in Novem-
ber 1983 and the restriction has not been removed. IDBP is planning to
provide Rs 35 million in working capital loans in FY84 and increase the
volume at a more rapid rate in subsequent years to reach a level of Rs 400
million p.a. by FY88 (Table 3). To support this increase IDBP is preparing a
campaign to attract at least Rs 200 million in additional deposits. This is
a rather ambitious objective but with an appropriate organizational structure
and management commitment, an achievable one.
Resource requirements
46.     During FY84-86, IDBP plans to lend at least Rs 1.8 billion with about
Rs n.8 billion in foreign exchange.  As of June 30, 1983 IDBP's untied for-
eign exchange resources available for new commitments consisted of a credit
line of US$40.0 million from ADB and about IJS$5.0 million from IDA Cr.
1186-PAK. With the allocation of US$15.0 million under the proposed lTIC
project, IDRP will have adequate resources to meet its foreign exchange
requirements until FY86 unless it expands its lending program more rapidly
than presently envisaged.
47.     IDBP's local currency operations are expected to be around Rs 10
billion during the same period. In addition, IDBP plans to lend Rs 0.5



ANNEX 4
Page 17
billion for working capital loans.  Local currency requirements would be met
mainly by the expected increase in deposits, retained earnings, suppliers
credits from SBP, and proceeds cf the proposed subordinated debenture issues
of Rs 100 million in FY85 in that order.
Projected Financial Results
48.     IDBP's projected financial statements are given in Attachment 3 and a
summary is presented in Table 4 below.
Table 4.  Summary of Projectedl Financial Results and Conditions (FY84-88)
(Rs million)
FY84     FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88
Fin,- cial Positions
Local currency loans                   1,740    2,224    2,559    2,919    3,290
Foreign currency loans                 1,598    1,839    2,074    2,314    2,524
Working capital loans                     35       290       575       975    1,290
Less:  Provision for losses            (221)    (271)    (323)    (380)    (439)
Loan portfolio (net)                   3,152    4,082    4,88'5    5,828    6,665
Commercial deposits                     140        290      565       865      1,190
Rupee borrowings                      1,983      2,465   2,790    3,178        3,525
Foreign currency borrowings             822      1,016   1,174    1,294       1,401
Subordinate debentures                   -         100      1o0       200        200
Paid-in capital                         100        100      100       100        100
Reserves                                171        225      290       367        433
Total Assets = Total Liabilities   3,417         4,407   5,239    6,235        7,137
Net Profit (Rs million)                  49         59       73        88         70
Financial Ratios
Net profit/average networth (X)        19.6       19.7    20.2       20.4       14.1
Administrative expenses/
average total assets (x)               1.4        1.3      1.2      1.0        1ol
Debt/equity ratio                     4.5:1      4.1:1    3.9:1    3.5:1    3.7:1
Debt service coverage ratio             1.23       1.22    1.11       1.12       1.10
Source: IDBP and mission estimates.
49.     Projected Profitabi:Lity.  Because of GOP's measures (paragraph 29), a
higher level of activities, and expected improvement in recoveries, IDBP's



ANNEX 4
-75-                           Page 18
net profit is projected to grow from Rs 33 million in FY83 to Rs 88 million
in FY87 and decline In FY8S to Rs 70 million, when subsidies are expected to
be withdrawn. Net profit as a percentage of networth is projected at 19.6%
in FY84 and to remain over 15% until FY88. Debt/equity ratio is projected to
be well below 5:1 throughout the period. With higher operating volume and an
expected increase in loan size, administrative expenses as a percentage of
total assets are projected to gradually decline from 1.4% in FY84 to 1.1% by
FY88.
50.     Projected Financial Position.  IDBP's asset base is projected to grow
at an annual rate of 21% from Rs 2.7 billion in FY83 to Rs 7.1 billion by
FY88. Ahout half of the prolected growth is expected to come from working
capital loans. If TDBP can implement its stated strategy, its working
capital loan portfolio will account for about one third of its total port-
folio, which will be a healthy mix enabling it to carry out its developmental
activities and remains financially sound. The expansion will be financed
largely by an increase in foreign currency borrowings, deposits, retained
earnings and debenture issues in that order.
51.     Portfolio and Arrears.  IDBP' major problem so far has been the poor
quality of its portfolio, which led to severe liquidity problems. For IDBP
to survive and prosper, it has no other obvious choice but to vigorously
address its arrears problems and ensure that its new loans are of higher
quality. Furthermore, to maintain its liquidity position, IDBP will need to
collect at least 75% of the amount falling dues on new loans i.e. loans made
from FY81 onward. IDBP has little control on litigation cases on the older
portfolio and will have to pay much closer attention to the new loans, which
are recent and the direct responsibility of the present management.



76                             ANNEX 4
Page 19
52.     IDBP'3 projected trenld in arrears over FYP4-86 is shown below.
Table 5.  Projected Trends in Arrears
(Rs in million)
Projected
FY83       FY84       FY85       FY86        FY87
(Actual)
A.  Opening balance                  1,097      1,039        908         746        771
B. Amount Fallen Due
(i) Againlst past dues             93        101         125        151        183
(ii) Current                       372         433        488        604        719
(iii) Total                         465         534        613        755        902
C. Foreign exchange
aciustment                        53                     -          -         119
D.  Total dues (A+B+C)               1,615      1,573      1,521      1,501      1,673
E.  Cash Collections
(i) Against past dues              98          85         85         82         85
(ii) Current                       216         280        340        448        520
(iii) Total                         314         365        425        530        605
F.  Rescheduling/Adjustment            262        300        350        200         175
G.  Closing balance                  1,039        908        736        771         893
Ratios (%)
Cash collection current as              59         65         70          74         72
% of current amount
fallen due [(E (ii)/B (ii)]
Cash collection as 7/ to                20         23         28          35         36
total dues (E/D)
The projected trend in arrears indicates that if IDBP c:an nmaintain the tempo
in recoveries and make new good loans, it should be able to arrest the trend
in arrears by FY85. Total arrears in nominal terms would decline if the cash
collection of current amount falling due reaches 74%.  Based on the assump-
tion that IDBP can meet its recovery targets, the DSCR woul-d remain around
1.1, which will enable IDBP to have access to the pool of funds under the
proposed project.



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Organizatlon Chart
(As of June 30, 1983)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
Mr. BashirAhmad
DE-PUTY MANAGING DIRECTOP (END-USE)                        DEPUITY MANAGING DIRECTOP (OPERATION)                        DEPUJTY MANAGING DIRECTOR (PLANNING)
Mr. M.W  erTvon                                              Mr S.AA Zaidl                                                  Mr S.M Yusuif
._                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~PRE-INVESTMENT .
ENDIJSE DEPARTMENT                                        ESTABLISHMENT DEPARTMENT                                       STUDIES & PROMOTION
_                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT
Mr. S. Iqboluddin                                         Mr MA A n Haeed Khan                                         Mr Hlimoyat Al Khran
SPECiAL STUDIES                                           PROJECT EVALUATION                                                PLANNING
..A._.TDEPARTMENT                                                                          DEPARTMENT
Mr. G A Khcjn                                               Mr. K M. Nagra                                           Mr MujlbuIliah Siddiqui
CENTRAL ACCOUNTS                                            BOARD DEPARTMENT &
DEPARTMENT                                              LEGAI CORPORATE CELL                                            SMALL INDUSTRY
_                            ~~~~~~~~REFINANCE DEPAR1IMENT
Mr. AzhauIlIah Khan                                         Mr Muhammad Rqbal                                                      E       N
______________                                             [~Mr Fazolur Rehman
ENGINEERINGF
DEPOSIT MOBLIZATION                                              DEPARTMENT                                                     STATISTICS
Mr M Sirajul .   safl                                             SECTION
Mr. S.A. Harsan                                           Mr Miotj ao
Mr iitRkhon Hasan
AUDiT, INSPECTiON &j 
METHODS DEPARTMENT                        [              SUMMARY OF STAFF STRENGTH
Mri M.M Ahmed                                            (AS OF JUNE 30. 1983)
Head OfTice  Regioral Offices   Total
ACAS               2               -            2
MBAs              24              26           50
Fnglneers         17              25      |   42
Economists        16               9           25
Statisticlans      4              --            4
Bankers           84             154          238
tThers             131             212         3 3
Toald      27842                    J 70      J
World Bank-256459                                        r-E
rt
rFI 



-78-                              AMNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
INDIJSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP)
Income Statements (FY79-FY83)
(Rs Million)
Audited
(FY--July 1 - June 30)                      FY79      FY80      FY81      FY82      FY83
INCOME
Interest and other charges
on loans                                    177       179       190       204       229
Other Income                                  23        25        20        23        32
Total Income                               200       204       210       227       261
EXPENSES
Interest on borrowings                       127       138       142       157       153
Administrative Expenses                       26        27        29        34        37
Other expenses including
provisions for doubtful debt                 26        21        25        19        30
Total Expenses                             179       186       196       210       220
PROFIT BEFORE TAX                             21        18        14        17        41
Less:  Provision for tax                      13        12         9        11         7
NET PROFIT                                     8         6         5         6        34
FINANCIAL RATIOS
(% average total assets)
Gross Income                                11.2      10.6      10.3      10.3      10.4
Financial Expenses                           7.1       7.2       6.9       7.1       6.1
Spread                                       4.1       3.4       3.4       3.2       4.3
Administrative Expenses                      1.4       1.4       1.4       1.5       1.5
NET PROFIT                                   0.4       0.3       0,2       0.3       1.3
Net Profit/average total netwcrth            6.2       4.4       3.0       3.1      16.0
Source: IDBP



AJNNE3Y 4.~
-79-                                    At t,;,nnt,
Page 2
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP)
Balance Sheets (FY79-FY83)
(Rs Million)
Audited
Ended June 30                              FY79      FY80      FY81     FY82      FY83
ASSETS
Liquid assets                                30        33        31       44        32
Investments                                 113        73        75       75        91
Loan portfolio                            1,078    2,019    2,058    2,304    2,658
Less:  Provisions                        (161)    (190)    (178)    (194)    (178)
1,617    1,829    1,880    2,110    2,480
Other assets                                 82        85        90      115        92
Total Assets a/                           1,842    2,020    2,076    2,344    2,695
LIABILITIES AND NETWORTH
Current Liabilities  b/                     125       136       143      107       142
Mobilized deposits                          156       149       125       125      115
Borrowings
Foreign currency                            560       615       512      554       652
Foreign currency loans
re- yable in Rupees                       119       100       89        84        81
State Bank - industrial loans               206       228      325       479       653
State Bank - cash credits                   326       434      511       617       509
Federal Government loans                    151       151       151      151       252
IDBP debentures                              10        -         -        -         -
Others                                        3         3         3        3        15
1,375    1,537    1,591    1,888    2,162
Other Liabilities                            52        60        25       28        48
Paid-in capital                              50        50       100      100       100
Reserves                                     84        88        92       96       128
Total networth                            134       138       192      196       228
Total Liabilities and Networth            1,842    2,020    2,076    2,344    2,695
Debt/Equity Ratio c/                        4.7       5.0       4.5      5.6       4.1
a! Net of assest and liabilities in Bangladesh.
b/ Excluding current maturity.
c! Including subordinated debts.
Source: IDBP



-80-                             ANNEX 4
Attachment
Page 1
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP)
Projected Income Statements (FY84 - FY88)
(Rs Million)
P R O J E C T E D
(FY---July 1 - June 30)                FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86     FY87      FY88
(Actual)
INCOME
Interest on Loans                       229       317       410       519       637      757
Interest on Short-term
Investment                               7        10        16        20        24       30
Fees & Other Income                      25        25        28        30        33        37
Total Income                          261       352       453       569      _94       824
EXPENSES
interest on F.C. Loans                   53        57        71        85      96        105
Other Financial Expenses                100       142       195       259     325        419
Administrative Expenses                  37       _43        49        56       65         75
Provision for Doubtful Debt              30        43        50        52       58         59
Total Expenses                        220       285       365       452     543        657
Profit before Tax                        41        67        88       117      150        167
Taxation                                  7        18        29        44       63         97
NET PROFIT                               34        49        59        73       88         70
FINANCIAL RATIOS
(% average total assets)
Gross Income                           10.0      10.8      10.9      11.1      11.4     11.6
Financial Expenses                      5.9       6.5       6.8       7.1       7.3      7.8
Spread                                  4.1       4.3       4.1       4.0      4.1       3.8
Administrative Expenses                 1.4       1.4       1.3       1.2       1.0       1.1
NET PROFIT                              0.4       1.6       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.1
Provisions/year end portfolio           6.7       7.0       7.3       7.5       7.8      8.0
Net profit/average total networth   16.0         19.6      19.7      20.2     20.4      14.1



ANNEX 4
-81-                                     Attachment 3
Page 2
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IPBP)
Projected Balance Sheets (FY84 - FY88)
(Rs Million)
P R O J E C T E D
(FY--July 1 - June 30)                FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87     FY88
(Actual)
ASSETS
Cash & Bank Balances                     32        29       34        39        41        42
Accrued Interest & Other Assets          77        77        77       77        77        77
Govt. Bonds & Unit Trust, Etc.           91       134       184      262       249       308
Local Currency Loans                  1,261    1,740    2,224    2,S59    2,920    3,290
Foreign Currency Loans 1/             1,396    1,598    1,839    2,074    2,315    2,524
Working Capital Loans                     -        35       290      576       975    1,290
Total Loan Portfolio               2,658    3,374    4,353    5,2O-    6,209    7,104
Less: Provisions for doubtful
debts                          (178)    (221)    (271)    (323)    (380)    (439)
Net Loan Portfolio                    2,480    3,153    4,082    4,886    5,829    6,665
Fixed Assets (Net)                       12        21        27       32        37        42
Amount Recoverable from Govt.             2         2         2        2         2
Contingent Rupee Assets                   1         1        1         1         1         1
Total Assets                       2,695    3,418    4,407    5,239    6,236    7,137
LIABILITIES & NETWORTH:
Commercial Deposits                     115       139      290       565       865    1,189
Accounts Payables                       237       246      257       267       277       287
Provision for Income Tax                (47)      (47)      (47)     (47)      (47)       -
Rupee Borrowings                      1,459    1,877    2,284    2,517    2,820    3,167
Rescheduled Borrowings                   51       106      181       273       358       358
Foreign Currency Borrowing              652       822    1,015    1,174    1,294    1,401
Subordinated Debentures                   -         -      100       100       200       200
Total L.T. Borrowings              2,162    2,805    3,581    4,064    4,673    5,126
Share Capital                           100      100       100       100       100       100
Reserves                                128       172      219       278       349       403
Debenture Redemption Fund                 -         -         6       12        18        30
Total Networth                        228      272       325       390       467       533
Contingent Rupee Liabilities              I         1        1         1         1         1
Total Liabilities & Networth       2,695    3,418    4,4n7    5,239    6,236    7,137
Debt/Equity Ratio                     4.1:1    4.5:1    4.1:1    3.9:1    3.5:1    3.7:1
1/ Including guarantees.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 3
-82-                                     Page 3
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISI'AN (IDBP)
Projected ("ash Flow Statements (FY84 - FY88)
(Rs Million)
P R O J E C T E D
(FY--July 1 - June 30)                 FY84       FY85       FY86       FY87       FY88
SOURCES
Net Profit                               67         88        117        150        167
Add:   Non-cash transaction
-- Depreciation                    1          1          1          1          1
-- Provision for
Doubtful Debts                43         50         52         58         59
Less:  Income credited to
profit & loss account
but not received               (112)      (126)      (127)      (151)      (137)
Add: Expenditure debited to
profit & loss account
but not paid                       52         67         76         72         30
Collection of Advances (Prin.)          169        182        222        255        317
Income Tax Paid                         (18)       (29)       (47)       (68)       (50)
Interest Expenses                       199        266        344        421        524
AVAILABLE FOR DEBT SERVICING            401        499        637        738        911
Drawn Down on Borrowings
-- Local Currency                      266        325        340        373        423
-- Foreign Currency                    287        315        325        332        337
-- IDA Credit for SIRD                 185        140         -          -          -
Increase in Comm. Deposits               25        150        275        300        325
Subordinated Debentures                  -         100         -         100         -
Total                               1,164      1,529      1,577      1,843      1,996
APPLICATIONS
Repayment of Borrowing
-- Local Currency                       34         58        108         70         76
-- Foreign Currency                     93         84        120        169        231
Interest Expenses                       199        266        344        421        524
REQUIRED FOR DEBT SERVICING             326        408        57:2       660        830
Disbursement of Loans
-- Local Currency                      266        325        340        373        423
-- Foreign Currency                    287        315        325        332        337
-- Working Capital Loan                 25        255        286        399        315
-- IDA Credit for SIRD                 185        140         -          -          -
Payment of Other Liabilities             25         25         25         25         25
Increase in Fixed Assets                  9          7          65         6          6
Increase in Investment                   43         50         18         47         59
Total                               1,166      1,525      1,572      1,842      1,995
Surplus/(Deficit)                         2          4          5          1          1
Opening Cash & Bank Balance              32         29         34         39         41
Closing Cash & Bank Balance              29         34         39         41         42
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR)  1.23          1.22       1.11       1.12       1.10



ANNEX 4
-83-                      Attachment 4
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP)
ANALYSIS OF AMOUNTS DUE AND RECOVERIES
(Rs Million)
FY       FY       FY      FY       FY       FY
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
A.   Opening Balance                    1,811      863   1,097   1,039        908      746
B.   Amount Fallen Due:
i)  Against past dues             150       73       93      101      125      151
ii)  Current                       207      314      372      433      488      604
iii)  Total Fallen Due              357      387      465      534      613      755
C.   Foreign Exchange Adjustment         (150)    119        53       -        -        -
D.   Total Dues (A+B+C)                 2,018   1,369   1,615   1,573   1,521   1,501
E.   Cash Collection:
i)  Arrears                       115       89       98       .85      85       82
ii)  Current                         97      159     216      280      340      448
iii)  Total                         212      248      314      365      425      530
F.   Rescheduling/Adjustment              943       24      262      300      350      200
G.   Closing Balance (D-E-F)              863   1,097   1,039        908      746      771
RATIOS (%):
i. Cash collection - current             27       41       47       52       55       59
to total Fallen due
E(ii) as % to B.
ii. Cash collection - Arrears              6       10        9        8        9       11
to opening balance
E(i) as % to A.
iii. Cash collection as % to               11       18       20       23       28       35
total dues (E as % to D)
iv. Rescheduling & Adjustment             47        2       16       19       23       13
as % to total dues
(F as % to D)
v. Total collection & Adjust-            58       20       36       42       51       48
ment Rescheduling as % to
total dues (E+F as x to D)
vi. Cash collection current               47       51       59       65       70       74
as % to Amount Fallen due
Current E(ii) as % to B(ii).



-84-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
NATIONAL nEVELOPHENT FINANCE CORPORATION
:[. INTRODUCTION
Rackground
1.      The National Development Finance fornoration (NDFC) was established
by GOP in January 1973, as a wholly owned government financial institution
for the purpose of providing f:inancial and technical assistance to nublic
sector industrial undertak-'ngs, defined as those which arP7 (i) whollv or
partly owned by the Government:; (ii) wholly or partly owned by enterprises
referred to in (i); and (iii) declared by the Government to he eligible for
NDFC assistance.
2.      Subsequently in October 1979, as GOP's industrial policy shifted over
the years in favor of private sector undertakings, and in order to promot:e
complementary and cooperation between the public and private sectors, NDFC
was authorised by GOP to finance private sector ventures which fulfilled any
of the following criteria: (i) procuring at least 40% of the value of
machinery requirements from a public sector enterprise: (ii) procuring
machinery and equipment worth at least Rs 10 million from a public sector
enterprise; (iii) belonging to an industrial subsector orginally reserved for
the public sector but subsequently opened to private investment.
3.      In January 1983 an Administrative Order was issued by GOP to permit
NDFC to (i) assist the private sector without any limitation but with a f'ocus
on less developed areas of the country; (ii) finance undertakings of locEll
governments and local authorities without need of prior approval by GOP; and
(iii) form financial subsidiaries to expand its financial services (in this
connection, a leasing subsidiary and a Regional Development Finance
Corporation are being established).
4.      With an initial authorized caDital of Rs 100 million (fully Daid-up
as of September 1974), NDTFC quickly expanded and developed over the years
into a "mixed bank".  It was empowered to raise deposits of varying
maturities and to borrow from international multilateral and bilateral
sources as well as from the SBP.  With the availability of short, medium and
long term funds, NDFC acqu:ired a mixed portfolio, following a prudent
practice of maturity matching.  Aside from flexibility 4n lending as well. as
borrowing and deposit takinag, NDFC benefi.ted from an exemption of liquidity
reserve requirements and interest rate ceilings imposed on commercial banks.



-85-                           ANNEX 5
Page 2
Unlike other DFIs, NDFC was exempted from income tax; and this facility,
coupled with a policy of low dividend payments, allowed it to build-up a
strong reserve position.   More recently, however, NDFC has begun to pay
dividends to GOP.
5.      NDFC has benefited not only from preferred treatment under its Act,
but also from maintaining close working relationships with Government, which
allowed NDFC to issue Rs 200 million; 1/ of reservable bonds and expand into
the private sector market. Over the years NDFC has proved itself worthy of
Government support. While other DFIs encountered severe operational problems
during this period, NDFC's operations proved to be sound and Drofitable
allowing it to expand rapidly while still maintaining a healthy financial
position. This was achieved by competent, innovative management and high
professionalism among its staff.
II. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Board, Management and Staffing
6.      Board.  While NDFC falls under the general supervision of the
Ministry of Finance, it has operating autonomy under its Board of Directors.
The Board meets regularly to establish NDFC's overall policies and approve
all direct lending proposals. Mr. Zafar Iqbal is Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer. The other five members of the Board are appointed by GOP.
The members represent the SBP, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry ot
Production and one from each of two other specialised financing instituLtions.
7.      Organization and Management.  Under the guidance of the Chairman,
NDFC's organizational structure (Attachment 1) has evolved in response to
NDFC's expansion, changing roles and the changing financial environment.
Given the present level of operations, the structure is appropriate.
However, based on NDFC's projected operations, some streamlining might be
required to: (i) reduce the number of units reporting directly to the
Chairman; (ii) group under the same executive vice presidencies related
functional units, e.g. accounts and controllers could be both under
Administration, project monitoring could be placed under End-use;
(iii) breaking up credit and finance under two senior vice presidencies, one
for credit and another for finance in order to decentralize these two major
tunctions.
8.      Staffing.  As of June 30, 1983, NDFC had a total staff of 299, of
which 162 were professionals and 137 were support staff, which is remarkable
in the Pakistani context where support staff usually outnumber professionals
1/ NDFC's bond issue is classified as eligible assets tor reserve require-
ments of commercial banks.



-86-                           ANNEX 5
Page 3
by a large ratio.  Personnel records of NDFC indicate that staff turnover,
which was a malor nroblem, has been partly arrested; with staff turnover
reduced from 15% in FY78 to 3% in FY83 (Attachment 2), and the average length
of service of Drofessional staff increasing from 3.7 years to 4 years. This
reduction has been achieved by providing an attractive benefit package and
using other staff retention schemes. NDFC's remuneration is now considered
reasonablv competitive with that offered by the NCBs. However, NlDFC needs to
review its compensation structure to ensure that it remains reasonably
competition with the foreign banking sector and the reviving private
industrial sector.
9.      Training.  To compensate for loss of competent staff through turnover
and to upgrade the capabilities of retained staff, NDFC operates a
comprehensive staff training program covering development banking, working
capital operations, small business operations, sectoral analysis and businiess
prciaotion. Arrangements are in hand to develop training courses with ADB and
EDI. Under the proposed IIC project, technical assistance/funding would be
provided to NDFC to strengthen its proiect financing operations, build up the
second and third tier management, and assist in structuring and launching a
series of courses in subsectoral analysis.
III. OPERATING POLICIES, PROCEDIJRES AND STANDARDS
Operating Policies and Strategy
10.     MDFC's Policy Statement, approved by its Board in January 1981,
establishes clear guidelines for direct project financing, financial exposure
limits and other appropriate financial nolicies. Following discussions wLth
ADB and IDA, NDFC's Management prepared a draft Corporate Strategy Statement
for FY83 - FY87 which outlines NDFC's objectives, sectoral. priorities, major
operational Dlans and resource mobilisation goals during the period.  DuriLng
the appraisal of the IIC project, minor modifications to the draft were
discussed with NDFC and agreement in substance reachedl on the revised draft.
The adoption of the Strategy Statement by NDFC's Board. would be a condition
for NDFC's participation in the project.  Any subsequent c.hanges in the
Policv Statement or Strategy Statement would require prior consultation with
IDA and in the case of the Policy Statement, IDA's prior approval.
Procedures and Standards
11.     Appraisal Standards.  In the initial period of its operations,
NDFC placed considerable emphasis upon the development of a high level of
appraisal standards. In large part, this emphasis has resulted in appraisals
of good quality, providing adequate coverage of technical, market and
financial aspects. For all projects receiving direct assistance, NDFC
calculates the internal financial rates of return and the projects' debt
servicing ratio; for projects above Rs. 10.0 million (US$0.8 million), NDFFC
calculates the internal economic rates of return and normatlly, the domestic



-87-                           ANNEX 5
Page 4
resource cost (DRC) ratio. While most projects have substantially higher
economic rates of return, 10% is used as a normal minimum cut-off point.
Appraisals and management reviews are usually completed witbin six months of
initiation, wbicn is satisfactory.
12.     Implementation and Supervision.  NDFC has satisfactory procedures
for project implementation and supervision. Supervision responsibility for
short-term working capital loans has been decentralised to NDFC's branches.
Supervision of long-term loans is carried out by the Hlead Office staff.
Supervision priority is given to projects which are behind schedule or
operating below the expected level of performance.  Projects which have been
operational for three years are subject to a detailed analysis to verify
economic and other benefits vis-a-vis the appraisal data.
13.     Procurement, Legal and Accounting.  NDFC's procurement procedures are
sound and conform to the Bank Group's recommended practice for development
banks. Three competitive quotations are required for both domestic and
foreign nrocurement, and procurement decisions are reviewed for price and
quality adequacy. NDFC's accounting procedures and standards are also
satisfactory. NOFC is considering the use of computer facilities to
strengthen its operations through the introduction of a Data Management
System (UMS).  Technical assistance funding would be available under the
proposed project, to assist NDFC in the design and implementation of the
proposed system.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Past Operations
14.     As of March 31, 1983, NDFC had approved financing totalling
Rs 9.6 billion (IJS$756.0 million) for 783 projects (net of cancellations).
Projects were well distributed by sector, with agro-based industries
accounting for 20%, energy 19%, steel and engineering 15%, cement 13%,
automobiles 12%, chemicals 8%4 and other industries 13%. About 56% of the
projects approved were in Sind, 39% in the Punjab and 5% in Baluchistan and
NWFP. Since its involvement in private sector lending in FY82, NDPC has made
31 loans totallinR Rs 963 million (US$68 million).
Resource Mobilization
15.     Deposit mobilization is an activity that clearly illustrates NDFC's
capacity for innovation. Without the extensive branch network of a NCB,
NDFC succeeded in raising substantial amounts of deposits of varying
matuirities. From FY78-FY82 NDFC's deposits grew at a compound rate of
17% p.a., slightly higher than the growth of overall denosits of the banking
system (Attachment 3). NDFC has built its deposit base by soliciting
deposits from its public sector clients, although more recently, NDFC has
begun tapping the retail deposit market on a selective and targeted basis,



-88-                           ANNEX 5
Page 5
creating special schemes to suiLt the requirements of target groups.  NT)FC's
newest scheme is bearer CD's whlich are expected to talp large amounts of funds
from the unorganized capital markets.  The strategy hag heen good market
research on different market segments, creation of innovative instruments to
reach these sub-markets effect.ively, and extensive market promotion.
16.     Recently, NDFC. successfully raised long term funds by floating two
bond issues of Rs. 100 million each with a coupon rate of 1O% p.a., which
were quickly taken up by commercial banks.  Considering the breadth and depth
of the local capital markel:, this is an indication that NDFC has been
accepted as a mature instit:ution.  NDFC has also been able to generate short
term foreign currency resources for specific clients through its
correspondent banks, in connection with its import financing activities.
While these facilities were provided to clients rather than to NDFC itself,
the initiatives were taken by TIDFC for which it received either a finder's
fee or management fee depending on its involvement.
17.     To date, NDFC has not raised foreign currency term funds on its own
account in the international market.  In the past, NTD:FG had solicited and was
offered a 1DM 20 million credit which it did not avail of since the terms were
not sufficiently attractive, especially considering the interest rate
constraint on the lending side.  With the background of successful resource
mobilization in the domest'ic market, the time seems appropriate for NDFC to
test the international marlcet by raising a medium term foreign currency
credit. NDFC's management con3iders this move an important sten in the
maturation of the institution.  The Bank Group should encourage NDFC to take
this step at the appropriate time.
Lending Activities
18.     NDFC's lending operations consist mainly of term loans in local and
foreign currencies; and to a lesser extent, working capital loans in local
currency. To a limited degree, NDFC also provides equity capital, is
involved in consortium financing, and arranges short term foreign currency
loans for its clients.  As of 4arch 31, 1983, DTFC had approved 371 local.
currency working capital loans worth Rs 5.3 billion, 297 local currency term
loans worth Rs 2.5 billion., an, 115 foreign currency term loans worth
Rs 1.8 billion.  Working capital loans accounted for about 65% of cumulative
disbursements while foreigni currency term loans about 12% (Attachment 4).
From FY78-FY83, tDFC's total loan portfolio grew at a comnound rate of 30%
p.a. On average about 55% of NDFC's loan portfolio is medium and long term
loans which increased sligihtly from 52% in FY78 to 587 in FY83 (Table 1).



-89-                           ANTEX 5
Page 6
Table 1: Loan Portfolio by Maturity
FY78-FY82
(Rs million)
December 31                  FY78      FY79     FY80      FY81      FYR2
Short Term                    531       666       R45      PO       1311
Medium Term                    84       108       133      217       283
Long Term                     499       687       Q26     1117      1 548
Total                 1114      1461      1904      22n3     3142
Source: NDFC.
19.     Understandably, the bulk of NDFC's lending has been for public sector
enterprises.  As of March 31, 1983, only 8% in number and 22% in valuie of
its term loans have been for private sector projects.  TDFC's operations have
concentrated on growth industrial subsectors reserved for the public sector.
The five major subsectors covered were sugar, energy, chemicals, cement and
machinery. While TDFC's clientele has been mainly large scale nublic sector
enterprises, its average loan size is relatively small, with working capital
loans of about Rs 14 million, term loans of Rs 9.0 million and foreign
currency term loans of about Rs 16 million. NDFC's share in the total fixed
investment of its projects has been only about 10%.
Other Development Activities
20.     Until recently, NDFC had given relatively little attention to
subsector analysis and Droject promotion. However, in 1q82, NDFC established
a Project Development and Consultancy Department to (i) conduct subsector
studies aimed at identifying opportunities for investment, (ii) Promote
suitable projects and entrepreneurs and (iii) carry out market potential
studies. The TIC Project would provide technical assistance funding to
assist NDFC strengthen these areas of its operations. During negotiations, a
program of sectoral studies, to be carried out during FY84 - FYR6, was
agreed.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Portfolio
21.     As of December 31, 1982, NDFC's loan portfolio totalled Rs 3.3
billion (US$260 million). Of the 143 prolects in receipt of direct loans,
only three were in arrears with overdue principal and interest payments of
Rs 177 million (US$14 million) or 5.4% of the portfolio (Attachment 5). To
cover these arrears, NDFC has a provision of Rs 44 million (USS3.5 million)
for bad and doubtful debts. NDFC's arrears position is satisfactory.
However, the quality of the portfolio needs to be monitored closely to avoid



-90-                            ANNEX 5
Page 7
any significant increase in the level of arrears and more importantly, in the
percentage of the nortfolio infected by arrears (i.e. principal not yet due).
Financial Position
22.     NDFC is in a sound financial position.  Its financial statements for
FY78-FY82 (Attachment 6) show that as of December 31, 1982 NDFC's assets
totalled PRs 4.3 billion consisting of loans (76%), investments (14%) and
other assets (10%).  These were financed by deposits (487), borrowings (33%)
and networth (13%).  During FY78-FY82, NDFC's assets increased at an average
annual rate of 23%; loans at 30% p.a. The growth was financed mainly by
deposits which grew From Rs. 1.1 billion in FY78 to Rs 2.1 billion in FY82,
or at 33% p.a. (Table 2).  UDFC's long term debt/equity ratio ranged fromn
3.4-4.0 during the period and was 3.6 at the end of FY82. This was well
below NDFC's limit of 5:1 leaving it ample room to finance its future
expansion.
Table 2: Key Growth Indicators
FY78-FY82
(Rs Billion)
Annual Compound
FY78    FY79    FY80    VY81        FY82      Growth Rate %
Deposits            1.1      1.2      1.3     1.6        2.1            17
Loans               1.1      1.5      2.0     2.3        3.2            30
Investments         0.3      0.2     0.3      0.6        0.6            18
Networth            0.2      0.3     0.4      0.4        0.-            25
Total Assets =
Liabilities
+ Networth        1.9      2.2     2.6      3.1        4.3              23
Profits (mil.)  47          71        83        87        119             26
Source: NDFC.
23.     NDFC's key financial ratios are presented in Table 3 below.  NDFC's
return on equity averaged 25% during the period, making it one of the most
nrofitable DFIs associated with the Bank Group. NDFC has been able to
operate profitably and maintain its sound financial position by (i) careful
management of assets and liability; (ii) maintaining a average spread of
3.7%; and (iii) controlling administrative expenses at a ratio of 0.7% of
total assets. Although NDFC's dividend payout ratio has increased
significantly, its tax exempt status has enabled it to nlow back profits and
build up a strong equity base.



-91-                           ANNFX 5
Page 8
Table 3: Key Financial Ratios
FY78-FY82
FY78    FY79      FY80    FY81        FY82     Average
Nlet profit/average
eqtiitv (%)                 25      28        26       23        25          25
Net Drofit/assets ()          .5      3.2      3.2      2.8       2.8         2.9
Interest snread (%)          4.6     4.5       3.3      3.0       3.3         3.7
Administrative cost/
loan portfollo (%)        0.8      0.6       0.6      0.7      0.7         0.7
Term debt/equitv             4.0      3.5      3.4      3.6       3.6         3.6
Total debt/equity            7.6      6.8      6.3      6.6       7.1         6.9
nTisk asset/capital          6.6      5.9      6.4      7.o       6.3         6.4
Collection rate (%)           94       95       91       94        86          92
Source: NDFC.
VI. PROSPECTS
Operations
24.     Lending.  By FY87, total loan approvals are expected to increase from
Rs 2.9 billion in FY82 to Rs 6.5 billion in FY87, reflecting an annual
compotind growth of 18.0% in current prices or 12% in real term.  This growth
rate is quite conservative considering growth of 30% p.a. from FY78 to FY82.
However, NDFC's main market, the public industrial sector, has been
contracting from Rs 6.6 billion in FY78 to Rs 4.1 billion in FY82.  NDFC's
market share accordingly increased from 2% to 16% and any further increase in
NDFC's share in public sector lending appears less attainable as GOP's
current policy of restricting investment to the completion of on-going
projects will further contract public industrial investment. On the other
hand, private industrial investment has been increasing at an average annual
rate of 20%.  Clearly, rTFC's decision to move more aggressively into the
private sector market is timely. If NDFC can maintain a 30% growth for its
private sector portfolio (which is presently 22%), it would need to increase
its public sector lending by only 6% p.a. in order to achieve the target of
12% p.a. This is considered an attainable and realistic target.



-92-                            ANNEX 5
Page 9
25.     NDFC's loan maturity mix is expected to tilt further in favor of term
loans, from 37% in FY82 to 54% in FY87.  Foreign currency loan approvals
which will reach Rs 1.0 billion (tUS$79 million) in FY87 will constitute about
20% of total lending and MDFC`s foreign currency comaitment requirement in
FY84 is about IJS$50 million.  Total foreign currency disbursement
requirements for the five-year period is US$240 million. As of June 30,
1983, NDFCs project pipeline consisted of 44 projects estimated to have a
total project cost of Rs 5o2 billion of which foreign currency requirement
would be Rs 203 billion or USS181 million.
26.     Resource Forecast,  To meet its lending targets NDFC exnects to raise
resources by increasing local currency deposits, using S3P refinance lines,
fresh equitv infusions of about Rs 100 million in 1935, floating another
debenture issue of Rs 100 in 1983 and borrowing foreign currency fund froom
ADB, bilateral sources andc from IDA/IBRD.  Deposits are orojected to grcw
at 15% p.a.,, a rate which appears attainable considering NDFC's past growth
of 17% n.a- and the 16% p.a. growth of overall deposits in the banking system
in the past five years.  SBP refinance lines will be used to match
disbursement for sub-loans under these credits, i.e. supnilier's credit and
export credit scheme. These will grow at 15% p.a. and will be within the
credit ceilings provided by SBP to NDFC.
27~   Based on the foreign currency lending projections, NDFC would require
about US$275 million for comrmiltment purposes during FY83 - FY87.  Presently,
NDFC has a French credit line of TUS$24 million, a BeLgian line of credit of
USI1.6 million, and two ATM lines of credit of US$30 million and
US$50 million respectively.  Except for US$43 million from the second APB
loan, 1/ all these credit lines have been fully commAttedi.  The projected gap
of l'S$232 million is expected to be met partly by an ADB line of
US$50 million, the IIC allocation of US$20 million, with the balance of
US$162 million to be funded partly by the pool available in the first IIC,
allocations under subsequent  ITCs, ADB and by commercial banlc borrowing.
"DFC's foreign currency resource shortage will be felt inL the second half
of FY85 and NDFC plans to borrow from the international mnarket toward the
end of CY 1985.  Assuming thal: NDFC can borrow US$50 million each under the
second IIC and a fourth ADE loan, NDFC should plan borrowing about
US$60 million from commercial sources.  The Government's New Industrial
Polizy is expected to be announced shortly and this may change overall
investment plans for the count:ry, with consequent changes in  TMFC's financing
needs.
1/  The ADB loan is expected to be fully comtmitted by June, 1983.



-93-                           ANNEX 5
Page 10
Financial Projections
28.     Based on its lending operations forecast and funding strategy, NDFC's
projected financial statements are presented in Attachment 7. Key indicators
are summarized below:
Table 4: Projected Financial Position
FY83-FY87
(Rs billion)
FY83      FY84       FY89      FY86      17Y87
Loan Portfolio                  4.2       5.3        7.1       9.I       11.4
Deposits                        2.6       2.9        3.3       3.8        4.3
Borrowings                     2.0        2.9        4.0       5.2        6.5
(Including Debentures)
Networth                        0.6       0.7        0.9       1.2        1.5
Total Assets =                 5.4        6.8        8.6      10.5       12.7
Liabilities + Networth
Net profits (Million)           140       199        247       310        382
29.     Total assets are projected to increase to Rs 12.7 billion in FY87
reflecting a compound growth of 25%. Deposits are expected to grow at 15%
p.a with term deposits (more than one year) growing faster and increasing
share from 25% in FY82 to about 35% in FY87. As a percentage of total
assets, NDFC's loan portfolio is expected to decline from 75%, to 65%
improving its liquidity position and keening its liquidity reserve well
within the requirement of 25% of deposits. Assuming continued income tax
exemption and infusion of fresh equity-funds of Rs 100 million in FY85,
NDFC's networth will grow to Rs 1.5 billion by FY87 maintaining a
satisfactory canital base of 13% of assets desnite the projected exDansion
in lending operations. With an average gross interest spread of about 4.5%,
operating profits are expected to reach Rs 0.4 billion in FY87.
30.    For FY83 - FY87, NDFC's profitability and financial structure are
projected to be as follows:



-94-                            ANNEX 5
Page 11
Table 5: Projected Key Financial Ratios
FY83-FY87
FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87    Average
Net profit/average
equity (/%)                  30        26       97        28        30       28
Net profits/assets (%)        3.3       2.8       2.9      3.2       3.4      3.1
Interest spread (%)           2.9       3.2      3.2       3.1       3.4     3.2
Administrative Expenses/
loan portfolio (%)          0.8      0.8       0.8       0.6       0.6     0.7
Term debt/equity              3.9       4.2      4.3       4.2       4.2      4.2
Total debt/equity             7.2       7.6      7.2       7.1       6.8      7.2
Debt service coverage
ratio                       6.3      6.2       4.5       4.7       4.3     5.2
Risk asset/capital            5.9       5.8       5.4      5.3       5.0      5.5
Source: NDFC.



NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
Organization Chart
(As of June 15, 1983)
CHIAIRMAN
F_~r
EVELOPMENT                                                   8, ~~~~~~~~~INESMENT MIONLANSADMINISTRATION                                                                POOO
PROJECTS                 DEVELOPMENT                    FINACE                DEVELOPMENT RANK -             &NE MONITORIGT               OSLA1sAMNSRTO                                                                   OOO
& CONSULTANCY                                           INTONSTTNG
Aftab 6Qjreohl             D No-, Alkhto,                M.I Abbos,              Moi,ammad Aslam            TMRohsm d MuzafTfr                        Y_-usf Al,                                                            M Sald
E P                         EVP                         E,P                        iWPEV                                                                                           EVP                                   EP
(1)   (o)                    (1)                      (2)                            (1)                                                                (1)                                 (2)
PROJECT               PROCT T           MARKET RESCAHCH          BRANCHES                BRANCHES                                                                                                                                ICiEF
FINANCING          IMPLEMENTATION          DEPARTMENT               NORTH                   SOUM&                                                   IM&M A EHM&M SOETRI            ACCOUNTS                 LAW                  ECONOMIST
N Ahmoed    l        H MssJeeb               Vocant            RnshidAhmed               SC Abbos    | |            R Amed  |         Voccn                SR. Ahrmed            NosT ARmed        |    G AbbaS                 N Mursheo
SW                   sW            _  SVP                                                                     SVP SW   l l  SP       TSP                   TSP                     SP vSP                                        SWP
(12)                  (2)                    (3)                  (43)                   (24)                   (3)                   (9)                   (10)                   (8)                    (4)                     (1)
HQ  arEnches           HQ BranEhes
FOP; REX R            MANAGEMENT        l   CAR LOAN                                                                                                ADMIN       |     |COvPTROLLER|
| S HqssioR               R. R  EI            A Namorn                                                                                              J RaI                  A r eOR
(6)                   (2)                   (2)                                                                                                  (9)                     (TO)
Note
Fhu-s in porenthesIs aRm the anmber of ocers in th. crncemed dviso, seCTiR &/oT branch                                                                                                                                       World Bank-25458
* Office located away iram head office
RET
,lZ
iD 0<
EtLJr
,t



-96-
ANNEX 5
Attachment 2
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL EEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORAT:ION
STAFFING TREND
FY78 - FY83
December 31             FY78        FY79         FY80        FY81        FY82        FY83
As of January 1               65          66          76          86           96         123
Recruited                     13          20          18           13          35          46
Deceased                      -           -            1          -            -            2
Resigned                      12          10           7           3            8           5
66          76          86          96         123          162
Support Staff                99          100         110        _116          135         137
Total                    165         176          196         212         208         299
Professional Staff
Turnover Ratio (%)       18.2        13.2          8.1         3.1         6.5          3.1
9/20/83
ASPID



-101-                               ANNEX 5
Attachment 5
Page 3
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
COLLECTION PERFORMANCE ON LOAN PORTFOLIO 1/
FY78 - FY82
(Rs. Million)
Year Ending December 31              FY78        FY79        FY80        FY81          FY82
Arrears January 1
Principal                            11.0        11.3        16.5          46.1          34.8
Interest 2/                          21.1        15.2        11.3          25.6          57.9
32.1        26.5        27.8          71.7          92.7
Current Dues during the Year
Principal                           287.6       388.0       661.6         849.7       1,109.4*
Interest 2/                          97.2       121.7       157.3         223.3         251.2
384.8       509.7       818.9       1,073.8       1,360.6
Total due for Collection
Principal                           298.6       399.3       678.1         895.8       1,144.2*
Interest                            118.3       137.3       168.6         248.9         309.1
416.9       536.6       846.7       1,144.7       1,453.3
Cash Collection
Principal                           287.3       382.8       632.0         861.0       1,030.0
Interest                            103.1       126.0       143.0         191.0         246.0
390.4       508.8       775.0       1,052.0       1,276.0
Arrears December 31
Principal                            11.3        16.5        46.1          34.8         114.2*
Interest                             15.2        11.3        25.6          57.9          63.1
26.5        27.8        71.7          92.7         177.3
Percentage Comparisons
Cash Collection/
Total due for Collection
Principal                       96          96          93             96            90
Interest                        87          92          85             77            80
Principal and Interest          94          95          92             92            88
1/ Net of reschedulings and rolled-over working capital loans.
2/ Includes penal interest.
* Subject to Long Form Audit.
Source: NDFC
9/22/83
ASPID



-102-                             ANNEX 5
Attachment 6
Page 1
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
COMPARATIVE BALANCE SHEETS
FY78 - FY82
(Rs. Million)
As of December 31                       FY78      FY79      FY80      FY81     FY82
Assets
Current Assets
Liquid Assets                                        394       464       305       252       211
Accrued Interest on Investment:s                      16        1L2        9        12        17
Accrued Interest and Charges on Loans                 26        39        68        66       116
Deposits and Prepayments                               1         2         4         6    _ 25
437      517       386       336       369
Investments (at cost)
Equities                                               2         2        53        56        56
Government Bonds and Loans,
Treasury Deposits                                   298       214       215       512      524
300      216       268       568       580
Loan Portfolio
Principal                                          1,114    1,461    1,904    2,203    3,276
Interest in Arrears*                                  16        11        26        58       63
Less
Provision for Doubtful Lcans                          13        11        16        21       44
1,117    1,4 61    1,914    2,240    3,295
Fixed Assets                                             1         2         3         4         6
Total Assets                                       1,855    2,196    2,571    3,148    4,250
Liabilities and Equities
Current Liabilities
Accrued Interest and Expenses                         80        93       111       120       L70
Sundry Creditors                                       3         8         8         9        10
Provision for Dividend                                 6         6        13        13        26
Others                                                 7         7         6        10       40
96      114       138       152      2.46
Time Deposits
Less than 12 months' maturity                        770       897       992    1,134    1,690
More than 12 months' maturity                        332       340       335       434       317
1,102    1,237    1,327    1,568    2,007
Borrowings
Foreign Currency                                     250       268       347      394       624
Local Currency                                       191       294       409       522      785
441      562       756       916    l ,209
Bonds                                                -         -         -         100      1.00
_T4_1    -562        756    1,016    1,509
Equity
Paid-in Capital                                      126       132       132       132      132
Statutory Reserve                                     75       111       126       169      229
Contingency Reserve                                   15        40        92        96       98
Bonds Redemption Reserve                             -         _         -          15       29
216      283       350       412       488
Total Liabilities and Equities                     1,855    2,196      2,571    3,148    4,250
Guarantees                                              81        81        70       100       1.36
Debt/Equity Ratio                                      4.0       3.5       3.3       3.8       4.0
* Includes dues of 0 - 3 months.                            7        3         3        30        19
9/21/83
ASPID



-103-                              ANNEX 5
Attachment 6
Page 2
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
COMPARATIVE INCOME STATEMENTS
FY78 - FY82
(Rs. Million)
Year Ending December 31                     FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82
Income
Interest on Loans                                         103     134      187      221     302
Other Loan Charges                                          6       6        9       15       20
109     140      196      236     322
Investment Income and
Interest on Bank Deposits                                72       59       47       46      88
Profit on Sale of Investments                               3      13       10        6        6
Dividend Income                                           _        -         2        3        4
Total Income                                           184      212      255      291     420
Expenses
Interest                                                 127      131      157      188     270
Commitment Fees and Other Charges                           2       2        2        1        5
Salaries                                                    4       4        5        7      10
Other Administrative Expenses                               4       4        5        8       13
Total Expenses                                         137      141      169      204     298
Net Profit                                                   47       71      86       87      122
Appropriation
Statutory Reserve                                          24      36       15       43      60
Provision for Doubtful Loans/Others                        13      (2)      (6)    (10)    (24)
Contingency Reserve                                        (2)     25       64       25      50
Bonds Redemption Reserve                                  -        -        -        15       14
Provision for Dividend
Cash Dividend                                             6       6       13       13      20
Bonus Share Issue                                           6       6       -        -       -
47      71       74       86     120
Financial Ratios (x)
Interest Spread                                          4.6      4.5      3.8      3.4     2.8
Administrative Expenses/Average
Loan Portfolio                                         0.8      0.8      0.6     0.7      0.8
Net Profit/Total Income                                 25.5    33.5    32.9    29.9    29.0
Net Profit/Average Equity                               24.5    28.4    26.4    22.8    27.1
Earnings Spread                                           5.9     6.5      5.7      4.3     4.3
9-22-83
ASPID



-104-                                 ANNEX 5
Attachment 6
Page 3
NA'IONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
COMPARATIVE CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
FY79 - FY82
(Rs. Million)
Year Ending December 31                       FY79        FY80          FY81         FY82*
Sources
Net Profit                                            71           86            85           122
Additional Non-Cash Charges                            1            1             2             3
72           87            87           125
Interest and Other Charges on
Portfolio Loans Credited                         (134)         (187)         (221)        (302)
Collected                       126           143          191           246
64           43            57            69
Loan Collections                                    440           632           866        1,030
Increase in Current Liab:lities
(Excluding Dividends)                              18            17            13           81
Internal Generation                                 522           692           936        1,180
add
Interest on borrowings                               32            45            60            87
AVAILABLE FOR DEBT SERVICING                        554           737           996        1,267
Drawdown of Borrowings
Foreign Currency                                   43           123            85          340
Local Currency 1/                                 120           137           136          328
Debentures                                        -             -              98          -
Time Deposits (Net Chanige)                       135            90           241          440
Total Sources                                   852        1,087         1,556         2,375
Applications
Repayment of Borrowings
Principal
Foreign Currency                                 25            44            38          110
Local Currency 1/                                17            21           24            65
Debentures                                              -                   -             -
42           65            62           175
Interest on Borrowings                               32            45            60            87
REQUIRED FOR DEBT SERVIC::NG                          74          110           122           262
Disbursement of Loans
Foreign Currency                                   43           123            85          340
Local Currency 2/                                 744           956        1,082         1,763
Investments (Net Change)                            (84)           51           300            12
Fixed Assets 3/                                        1            1             1             2
Dividend                                               6            6            13            13
Increase in Current Assecs (excluding
accrued interest and charges on loans).            68          (160)          (47)         (17)
Total Applications                               852         1,087        1,556         2,375
Liquid Assets
Opening Balance                                     394           464           305           252
Change in Year                                       70          (159)          (53)          (41)
Closing Balance                                     464           305           252          211
Debt-Service Coverage 4/                               7.5          6.7           8.1           5.8
*  Unaudited
1/ SBP refinance for suppliers' Credit Scheme.
2/ Includes working capital loans, suppliers  credit loans and regular term
loans.
3/ Expenditure less disposal.
4/ Available for Debt Servicing/Required for Debt Servicing.
Source: NDFC
9/22/83
ASPID



ANNEX 5
-105-                             Attachment 7
Page 1
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
FY83 - FY87
(Rs. Million)
Income                                      FY82      FY83      FY84      FY85       FY86       FY87
Interest on Loans                          302       413       505       638        824      1,046
Other Loan Charges                          20        22        25        28         31         35
322      435       530       666        855      1,081
Investment Income and
Interest on Bank Deposits                 88       114       161       175        167        152
Profit on Sale of Investment                  6        7         7         7          7          7
Dividend Income 7.6% in FY83
12.5% in FY84               4         5        11        13        17         20
Total Income                             420       554       709       861      1,046      1,260
Expenses
Interest                                   270       377       465       559        669        797
Commitment Fees and Other Charges            5         7         7         7          7          7
Salaries (1.5%)                             10        12        14        17         20         24
Other Administrative Expenses               13        18        24        31         40         50
Total Expenses                           298       414       510       614        736        878
Net Profit                                   122       140       199       247        310        382
Appropriation of Net Profit
Statutory Reserve (50%)                     60        70       100       123        155        191
Provision for Doubtful Loans                24        26        33        51         68         76
Contingencies Reserve                       26        (5)       17        17         23         37
Bonds Redemption Reserve                    14        29        29        29         29         43
Cash Dividend                               20        20        20        27         35         35
120      140       199       247        :310       382
Financial Ratios:
Interest Spread                            2.8       2.9       3.2       3.2        3.1        3.4
Administrative Expenses/
Average Loan Portfolio                   0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8        0.6        0.6
Net Profit/Total Income                   29.0      25.3      28.0      28.6       29.6       30.3
Net Profit/Average Equity                 27.1      26.2      30.3      29.5       28.8      28.5
Earning Spread                             4.3       3.2       3.9       3.8        3.7        3.7
9/23/83
ASPID



ANNEX 5
-106-                              Attachment 7
Page 2
NATIDNAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
P]lOJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
FY82 - FY87
(Rs. Million)
Audited
Assets                                       FY82       FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86        FY87
Current Assets
Liquid Assets 1/                         211         139       105       115        104        123
Accrued Interest on
Investments                             17         18        19        20          21         22
Accrued Interest and
Charges on Loans                       116        116       116       1'6         116        116
Deposits and Prepayments                  25          30        32        34         36         38
369        303       272       28F5       277         299
Investments (at Cost)
Equities                                  56          75        95       120        150        170
Government Bonds and Loans,
GTDRS                                524        975    1,250    1,250        1,150       1,050
580      1,050    1,345    1,3370       1,300      1,220
Loan Portfolio
Principal                              3,271      4,118    5,225    6,963         8,966    11,237
Interest in Arrears                       63          72        87       109        140        178
3,334      4,190    5,312    7,0;'2       9,106    11,415
Less
Provision for Doubtful Loarns             44          70       103       154        222        298
Staff Loan                                 5           5         5         5          5           5
Fixed Assets (Net)                         6           9        12        14         16         18
Total Assets                         4,250      5,487     6,843    8,583    10,482        12,659
Liabilities and Equities
Current Liabilities 2/
Accrued Interest and Expenses            170         180       190       200        210        220
Sundry Creditors                          10          11        12        13         14         15
Provision for Dividend                    26          26        26        26         26         26
Others                                    40          42        46        48         50         52
246        259       274       287        300         313
Time Deposits
Less than 12 months'
Maturity                           1,690      2,080    2,330    2,608        3,000       3,450
More than 12 months'
Maturity                             317        520       582       652         749        861
2,007      2,600    2,912    3,260-       3,749       4,311
Borrowings 3/
Foreign Currency                       624        709    1,096    1,595        2,086       2,688
Local Currency                         785      1,137    1,633    2,303         2,943      3,572
1,409      1,846        29       898      5,029      6,260
Debentures                               100        200        200       200        200        300
Equity
Paid-up Capital                          132         132       132       18.2       232        232
Statutory Reserve                        229        299        399       522        677        868
Contingency Reserve                       98          93       110       127        150        187
Bond Redemption Reserve                   29          58        87       116        145        188
488        582       728       947       ,204      1,47i
Total Liabilities and Equity          4,250      5,487    6,843    8,592    10,482         12,659
Debt Equity Ratio                        4:1      3.9:1    4.2:1    4.3::L        4.2:1      4.2:1
1/ Liquid Assets comprise cash on hand and in bank.
2/ Excluding current maturity oE deposits and borrowings.
3/ Including current maturity.
9/23/83
ASPID



ANNEX 5
-107-                             Attachment 7
Page 3
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
FY83 - FY87
(Rs. Million)
FY83       FY84       FY85       FY86       FY87
SOURCES
Net Profit                                        140        199        247        310         382
Interest and Other Charges
on Portfolio: Credited                        (413)      (505)      (638)      (824)    (1,046)
Collected                       404        490        616        793       1,008
131        184        225        279         344
Loan Collections                               1,433      1,945      2,262      2,877        3,756
Increase in Current Liabilities                    13         15         13         13          13
(excluding Dividends)
Internal Generation                            1,577      2,144      2,500      3,169       4,113
ODD
Interesc on Borrowing                            128        165        223        288          359
Available for Debt Servicing                   1,705      2,309      2,723       3,457       4,472
Draw Down of Borrowings
Foreign Currency                               187        494        635         715         829
Local Currency                                 410        616        871        959        1,079
Debentures                                       100        -          -           -           100
Time Deposits (Net Charges)                      593        312         348        489         562
Paid-up Capital                                  -          -            50         50         -
Total Sources                                2,995      3,731      4,627      5,670       7,042
APPLICATIONS
Repayment of Borrowings
Principal
Foreign Currency                               102        107        136        224          227
Local Currency                                  58        120        201        319          450
Debentures                                       -          -           _         -            -
160        227        337        543         677
Interest on Borrowings                           128        165        223         288         359
Required for Debt Servicing                      288        392         560        831       1,036
Disbursement of Loans
Foreign Currency                               187        494        635         715         829
Local Currency                               2,093      2,558      3,365      4,165        5,198
Investments (Net Charge)                         470        295         25         (70)        (80)
Fixed Assets                                        3          3          2          2           2
Dividends                                          20         20         27         35          35
Increase in Current Assets
(excluding accrued interest
and charges on loans)                         (66)       (31)        13          (8)         22
Total Applications                           2,995      3,731      4,627      5,670       7,042
LIQUID ASSETS
Opening Balance                                  211         139        105        115          83
Change in the Year                              (172)        (34)        10        (11)         15
Closing Balance                                  139        105         115        104          98
Debt Service Coverage                            6.3        6.2        4.5         4.7         4.3
ASPI3



-108-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (ITC) PROJECT
PAKIST&N INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
I. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.      The Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corroration (PICIC)
was established with Bank Group and I7C technical and financial assistance in
1957 as a privately-owned corporation to provide long and medium-term loans,
in local and foreign currencies, to private industry. It was also intended
to play a key role in capital market develonments through the direct purchase
and urnderwriting of shares and debentures.  During the 196O's PICIC developed
into a well managed and experienced DFC and its position as the premier
supplier of long term funds for industrial investment in Pakistan became
firmly established.  PICIC, in effect, pioneered in suoporting new industries
in the cement, sugar, and textile sectors in Pakistan which todav are fun-
damental to the country's economy.
2.      However, the 197O's proved to be an exceptionally difficult neriod
for Pakistan and its institutions.  The separation of Banpgladesh, the 1972
devaluation of the Rupee by 130", and the nationalization of major private
industries in the first half of the decade, contributed tco a drastic reduc-
tion in private industrial investment and a general disruption of the
economy.  Tbis internal situation was further aggravated by the renercussions
of the 1973 and 1980 increases in world oil prices. PICIC was directly
affected by all these events. A substantial portion cf its assets were lost
to Bangladesh. The devaluation of the rupee increased! the domestic currency
value of its foreign liabilities while its clients found it difficult to meet
corresponding increased rupee payments.  The worldwide recessions Dar-
ticularly affected Pakistan's textile export industry which accounted for
40% of PICIC's portfolio.
3.      Since 1978, GOP's policies have been directed to promoting private
investment and to rescue private industry affecterd by the dislocations of
the decade. As a result the industrial sector has recovered significantly
and industrial demand for financial assistance is growing.  Since 1980, GOP
has enacted a number of measures 1/ to address the portfolio recovery
1/ Committee for Sick Units, 19RO, Collection Review Meeting, 1980,
Presidential Ordinance, 1982.



-109-                         ANNEX 6
Page 2
problems of PICIC and IDBP on a national scale and to revive these insLitu-
tions.  The World Rank Group and ADB have worked closely with COP and PICIC
(also IDBP) to bring these efforts to fruition. Starting in the last quarter
of lgl under the direction of new management and a practical approach to
overdue accounts, PICIC has been able to reduce its nortfolio in arrears,
improve its liquiditv position, and achieve a satisfactory financial condl-
tion. PICIC's management has also taken a number of additional measures to
enable PICIC to compete in a more competitive financial environment.  PICIC
is now allowed to borrow in interbank markets and has been making working
capital loans. It has modified its lending policy to be more competitiva
with other term lending institutions.
Bank Group Assistance
4.      Since 1957 the Bank Group has extended eleven loans/credits to PICIC
for a total of ITS$273 million with important industrial development effects.
The latest credit from IDA to PICIC (Credit 101-PAK) for UIS$40.0 million was
made in 1990, and has been utilized according to schedutle in assisting
industrial projects. As oF April 15, 1983 US$30.0 million had been disbursed
of the USS37.0 million assigned to project financing. Disbursements of the
balance of US$3.0 million which was intended for a national textile training
program, were delayed.  Rowever, the textile component was restructured in
November 183 and disbursements are expected to be completed by March
31, 19R5.  All agreements and understandings reached in connection with
Credit 101Q-PAK relating to improvements in the legal framework for collec-
tions, the settlement of PICIC's public sector overdues, the rescheduling of
SRP cash credits, the establishment and achievement of a collection pIan for
1980-1952, and staff appointments and general compensation adjustments by
PICIC have been complied with by GOP/PICIC.
PICTC and Industrial Investment
5.      From its inceDtion PICIC engaged primarily in financing the foreign
currency component of required fixed investment in the private industrial
sector. This activity focus was the result of the emphasis of development
thinking at the time of its establishment.  In the 1950's long term foreign
capital for import-substitution industries was perceived as one of the cru-
cial elements in economic development. PICIC's charter however intended it
to carry broader functions in the canital markets as well as in non-financial
assistance to industry. These functions have not been adequately fulfilled
because of the adverse developments of the seventies and PICIC's management
orientation to the traditional foreign exchange financing function.
6.      Within the traditional concept, PICIC's contributions to the develop-
ment of the private industrial sector in Pakistan is creditable. In the 25
years of its existence PICIC has provided total assistance for Rs 6.6 billion
for 757 industrial projects.  Of this amount about 10% reflects PICIC's



ANNEX .
Page I
catalytic function in channelling direct foreign loans and/or foreign invest-
ment to Pakistani projects exclu.Usive of its own loans.  PT17TC's total assis-
tance to industry (Table 1), broken down by sector, shows the importance ct
the textile sector in PICIC's portfolio.
Table lo  PICIC Sectoral Distribution of Cumula-tive Assistance
Sector                                                           7
Textiles                                                       38.6
Food Products and Processing                                   17.6
Eneineering                                                    10e2
Cement, Clay, and  Class                                        9.q
Paper, Paper Products antd Printing                             5.6
Chemicals                                                       5.6
Miscellaneous                                                   (. 
Total                                                      100.0
Source: PICIC.
7.      However, PICIC's role irL industrial finance has been diminished
lately. This is partly due to P'ICIC's portfolio and instiltutional problems
resulting from the economic dislocations of the 1q70'sz but: it is mostly the
result of changing financial and industrial environments.  In recent years
the Treeminent importance of foreign exchange financing has been reduced as
a result of increased availability of suppliers credit and of Pakistan's own
inflows of foreign remittances from workers in the Middle Tast and other
regions.  Some machinery and equipment are manufactured locally.  Export
industries have developed which primarily require export financing.  Within
the financial sector on a wcrld wide basis there is greater demand for a
broader range of financial services that include working capital, term
financing, export finance, leasing, and cash management services.  This trend.
has rapidly been adopted by Pakistan.  New institutions are active in the
financial scene with broader mardates, 1/ and the coTnuercial hanking system
has been called upon to act in other areas -- particularly in term financing
of industry and in the development of Islamic financial instruments.  PICIC's
share of industrial financing has consequentlv been reduced from about 20% in
1970 to about 3% in 19R2.  PICIC's new management is now making a con-
centrated effort to regain its market shares.  A new corporate elan has been
prepared..  Given PICIC's institutional shortcomings, the management would
like to maintain market shares and graduallv regaini markets shares without
taking on uindue risks.  The aTnroach is sound and should enhance PICIC's
profitability.
1/ NDFC, PEL, Pak-Lybia, Pak-Saudi, Pak-Kuiwait.



-1ANEN1 6
Page 4
IT. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Ownershin and Eoard
8.      Ownershin.  PICIC's initial paid-tip capital of Rs 20 million was
increased progressivelv to Rs 66.4 million by 1974, but during the second
half of the seventies the depressed stock market and PICIC's portfolio
problems did not allow increases in share capital. In 1974 through the
nationalization of commercial banks and life insurance companies, 49% of
PTCIC's shares became Government owned as State Life Insurance (American
Life) was one of the largest stockholders in addition to the NIT. The
remaining 91% of its capital shares are held by private individuals and
orRanizations, many of them foreign banks. As of December 31, 1q82 paid-up
capital stood at Rs 109.9 million as a result of share dividends distributed
in 1977, 197R, and 1981. The concentration of public shares, PICIC's port-
folio difficulties, SW' financial suDport and the character of the domestic
financial environment have however all contributed to enhance Government
control of PICIC. In fact, GOP appoints the Chairman and the Managing
Director. Until recentlv, partly by its own choice, PICIC was subjected to
the determinations of the National Pay Commission on salary structures and
levels.
9.      Roard of Directors.  TICIC's board of directors is formed by twentv
two members, including the Chairman and Managing Director. It consists of
fifteen Pakistani and seven foreign directors. Of the Pakistani directors,
one represents the Federal Government, one the nrovincial governments on a
rotational basis, two the Government institutional shareholders (SLIC and
NIT), and the rest are prominent industrialists in addition to the Chairman
and the M,anaging Director.  The Board meets about four times a year, once to
apnrove the Chairman's report and whenever it is necessary to approve large
loan nroposals. The unwieldy structure and composition of the Board has in
the past, resulted in an unworkable situtation at the Management level.
TIowever, in 1982, the Board empowered the Executive Committee, which has
seven members and is chaired by the Managing Director, to approve loans u-p to
Rs 15 million. At the same time, the Roard reassumed other administrative
powers Dreviously entrusted to the 5hairman and assigned the Chief Executive
role to the Managing Director. The present arrangement is working reasonably
well and has increased management effectiveness.
Organization, MTanagement and Staff
10.     nrganization.  Attachment I shows PICIC's organization chart as of
September 1, 1983, reflecting the changes made by management. The idea
behind these changes was to integrate functions related to the pro ect cycle.
TTowever, a number of operating deficiencies still arise under the present
structure. Among them there is the need for a resources and financial
management unit to improve the resource planning and funding capability of
PICIC. A similar need exists for a senarate personnel administration unit to



AiNNFX C
-112-                         Page 5
build up staff strength and sten tip training.  The economic department, must
be realigned in terms of management information needs and/or operations
promiotion functions.  Some of the ftunctions of the engineering department
need to be revised. The necessity of exnanding PICIC's operations and wi:1en-
ing the range of services offered to its clients is apparent.  In this con-
text it will be necessary to adoDt the organizational structure best suited
to develop these activities.  An institutional review will focus on organiza-
tional changes and review of functions and procedures as required hy the
strategy apnears timely. Tlowever, the new management of F'ICIC feels that it
presently needs to focus on problems of recoveries andl business development.
Ilhen the consideration is completed, PICIC will he carrying out the review
and wjill request funding From the tecehnical assistance' furnds under the
project.
llo    fManagement.  Since October 1981, PICIC has had a new MTanaging
Director, MIr. I.4. Tlianfi, wvho assumed the position on deputation from the SRP
where he was the Txecutive Director in charge of Panking r'ontrol.  He is a
verv capable and experienced banker and well, respected in Financial circles.
He has begun to address some of PICIC's organizational. deficiencies with
i.nitial actions Oirected at integrating the functions of units working on
projects, reviewing procedures, and improving staff compensation levels. IL/
Stens taken so far bv PICIT's rew MIanaging Director haven been beneficial and
are in the right direction.
12.     Staffing.  In 1992 PICIC employed 121 professional staff, ?./ of which
most have been with PICIC for more than ten years, many for fifteen years or
more.  While this fact could point to a satisfactory staffing situation in
terms of Drofessional experience it mostly reflects the routine application
of work patterns adopted many years back.  This is Darticularly true becauise
of the no-growth situation of t:he recent past and because of the specialized
character of some operating der<artments.  For the newer professional recruits
this situation has led to a very high turnover rate, as employment onpor-
tunities elsewhere in the financial sector have been expanding in recent
years.
130     Lowi staff morale has been a major problem for TTICIC over the last few
years.  The basic problem revolves around the loss of identification with the
1/  The projects department was reorganized to include project develonment,
appraisal, implementation, and supervision functicins. A systems depart-
ment was also formed to review practices and procedures, but its work
thus far has been basically on surveying the current situation.  An
initial program for personnel evaluation and merit-related salary
increases was also carried out in 1R2, and a continuation of the same
is planned for the current year.
2/  Including heads of department, but excluiding Deputy Managing Directors.



-113-                         ANA1EX 6
Page 6
institution in the face of its diminished role in the finance system artn
limited advancement possibilities. To rectify this situation, PICIC's new
management has over the last year taken some concrete stens.  Salary adjust-
ments are now more frequent and based on merit. Promotions to a higher grade
are no longer tied to seniority and adjustments have been more frequent.  The
compensation package for middle level management is brought more in liTle with
other financial institutions. Recruitments of professional staff, especially
MBAs, are stepped up. PICIC now recruits on campus prior to graduation. The
measures taken so far are sound.  Tlowever, its impacts would be limited
unless PICIC expands and oDens up career possibilities to new recruits.
ITT.  OPERATIONAL PERPORMANCE
14.     Recent Performance.  A summary of PICIC's loan operations and finan-
cial results for the last five years (FY78-FY39) are presented in 7able 20
Table 2: Summary of Operations and Kev Financial Results
(Rs million)
1978       1979      1980      1931      1932
OnDerations
Loan sanctions /1 - Foreign Curr.  268            252        15        43      107
- Local Curr.       14         14       325       329       244
Total                               282        266       34372               3 51
Loan commitments                       1S0         77        10      40$       32r
Loan disbuirsements                   249         229        90       19       299
Financial Conditions and Results
Cash and short-term deposits            89         81        97       80       115
Loans (net)                         1,737      1,750    1,699    1,71?    2,321
Equity investments                     86          89        98        97      104
Portfolio in arrears                  670        377    1,249    1,37n    1,197
Foreign exchange borrowings         1,341      1,300    1,230    1,176       1,697
State Bank cash credits               427         569      720       726       717
Net worth                             306         337      371       3qn       483
Total assets                        2,722      2,810    2,866    2,338    3,612
Net profit after taxes                  33         36        38        38        32
Ratios
Net profit/average networth (%>   11.2          11.1      10.6        19.2     7.3
Administrative expenses/average
total assets (0) 0.71                          0.71      0.83       0.77    0.73
Long-term debt/equity ratio           6.0        5.6       5.0        4.7      5.1
/1  Net of cancellations.
Source: PICIC.



-114-                         ANNEX 6
Page 7
15.     PICIC's performance during FY78-FYR2 is characterized by two impor-
tant developments.  The first is the reduction in the level of its opera-
tions. The FYR2 portfolio figure expressed in rupees reflects a reduced
portfolio with resnect to FY81 in terms of foreign exchange value which
represents 99% of its nortfolio.  Earlier vears also show a* downward trend.
WIhile in the 1970s, industrial sector demand for investment funds was some-
what reduced by the slowdown of the period, this is not the case for the past
three years in which industrial investment has grown substantially. Rather
the reasons behind the relatively low level of PICIC's operations are the
chronic loan recoverv problem and the unavailability to PICIC of greater
foreign exchange resources. Since 19Q0, PICIC has receivecl TTSt83 million of
foreign exchange assistance from. IDA, ADR, and KfJ of which UTS$C40 million
from ADB was declared effective only in March 1982.  Its commitments for FY82
were IJS$27 million and disbursements US$23 million.  Mfinor bilateral credits
and specialized lines from China and the Tslamic Development Rank were also
utilLzed, and included in the commitment and disbursement figures quoted.
16.     The second important feature of PTCIC's operations in recent vears
is the initial turn-around in the portfolio arrears problem which had its
origins in the loss of East Pakistan and the devaluation of: the rupee in 1972
and was compounded by adverse economic developments in later years.  'With the
passing of time, the problem was magnified beyond manageable proportions as
new installments fell into arrears and interest charges were compounded.
During 1980 and the first half of 1981, collections of current dues fell to
35%, with the large uncollected amounts increasing the portfolio in arrears.
By September 1981, the situation had deteriorated to the noint where the
level of arrears had reached Rs 1.5 billion or 62% of the total portfolio.
T'he percentage of portfolio infected by arrears, which included future
installments for loans already in arrears on past installments, was 67%.
17.     However, hy the end of 1982 the trend had been reversed.  Through
improved collections on current maturities as well as on past due accounts
btut more importantly through the rescheduling of princinal and interest owed
by projects which had run into serious financial or operational difficulties
portfolio in arrears had been reduced to Rs 1.2 billion or 55%  of the tota"L
portfolio.  The most importanat rescheduling agreements have been carried out
in the context of the Government Committee on Sick Units with the participa-
tion of other creditor institutir)ns and the cooperation of the vakistan
Banking Cotuncil.  During 1982 PICIC rescheduled debts totalling Rs 500 mil--
lion, against which it received cash pavments of Rs 50 million.  The trend
is improving. As of June 30, 1933, PICIC had collected Rs 249 million and
for 1983, expects to collect Rs 450 million compared with the agreed target
of Rs 400 million. Also, PI'IC's portfolio affected by arrears has been
reduced to Rs 1.0 billion, or 40N of the portfolio.  PICIC's Debt Service
Coverage Ratio was 1.15 in June 1983.



-115-                         ANNEX 6
Page 8
IV. FIMANCIAL ASPECTS
18.     PICTC's financial statements for the last five years (1978-R2) are
given in the Attachment 2.  In spite of the limited growth in its operations
and the oroblems in nortfolio recovery, PICIC has been able to maintain a
modest level of profitabilitv.  Tight control on expenditures and a wider
spread on its lending operations have made this possible, even though a good
percentage of its assets are recognized as non-performing for interest
accrual purposes.  Reserves for doubtful accounts of Rs 104 million as of
December 31, l9q2, are small but can be iustified in terms of the secured
nature of the princiDal on loans and PICIC's accounting policy of not accru-
ing interest on non-performing assets.
19.     PICIC's capital structure remains adequate, due to the retention of
profits as reserves and the policy of issuing bonus share issues in lieu of
cash dividends until 1982.  PICIC's debt/equity ratio at the end of 1982 wzas
5-3:1, well belowq its limit of 7:1. Given PICIC's improved liquidity posi-
tion, a cash dividend of 10% was declared in 1993. This first payment to
shareholders since 1976 was essential to improve PICIC's Dublic image and
restore the confidence of private shareholders.  PICIC's shares, which have
traded around Rs 7.50 in the market until recentlv have rebounded to Rs 9.5.
As PTCTC will need to expand its operations in the future, the matter of
future share issues must be kept in mind and investor confidence built up
gradually over time.
20.     All other financial indicators, as Dresented in Table 2, point to
an improved nosition as of December 31, 19R2. PIrIC's financial conditions
improved further during the first half of 1983 due to an increase in PICIC's
profit from Rs 19 million in 1982 to Rs 48.6 million.  The improvement was
due mainly to better liabilitv management and monev market operations.
During the first half of 1983, PICIC also made a substantial amount of work-
ing capital loans with a higher spread. In brief, PICIC is now liquid, SBP
cash credits are being amortized, the debt/equity ratio has been reduced,
and the debt service coverage ratio has improved substantially.
V. PROSPECTS
21,     Because of the improvement in the investment climate and GOP's
clearly stated policy of promoting private industrial investment, the busi-
ness prosDects for term-lending institutions in Dakistan are good.  PICIC is
likelv to benefit from this trend. PICIC's projected level of operations and
financial statements for 1983-87 are provided in the attachments. Table 3
Drovides key figures.



-116-                           AN,NEX 6
Page 9
Table 3:  Projected Operations and Key Financial Results
('s million)
Year ending "December 31                  19R3        1984      185       1986       1987
Operations
Loan sanctions - Foreign Currencv    450               530       613        724       853
- Local Currency           q5        182        198       216        236
Total                                    545        712        811        940      ORQ
Cormi tnents                               535         701       727        789       855
Disbursements                              504         684       6q2        742        807
Financial Conditions & Results
Cash and short-term deroosits              150         153       180        155       201
Loans (net)                              2,58R8     2,992      3,352      3,736     4,132
Equity investments                         104         104       104        104       104
State Bank cash credits                    696         677       657        607       557
Other borrowings                         2,050      2,449      2,806    3,153       3,567
Net worth                                  516         597       609        676       755
motal assets /1                          3,483      3,900      4,293     4,657      5,1003
Net profit (after taxes)                    50          58         60        84         96
Ratios
Net profit/average total assets (X) 1.50              1.56      1.70       1.87      1.97
Net profit/average net worth (%)   10.00            10.60      11.90)    12.90    13.31
Administrative expenses/average
average total assets (0) 0.75                      0.78       O.Rl      0.85       0.90
Long term debt/equity ratio               5.10        5.30      5.201      4.9O      4.70
Debt service coverage ratio               1.14        1.14      1.14       1.16      1.16
/1  excl]udes assets in Bangladesh.
Source: PICIC.
22.      ?TCIC's lending operations are Trojected to increase from Rs 351
million in 1982 to Rs 1,089 million in 1987, an annual growth rate of 257% in
current prices.  Since PICIC is starting from the smal-L base, the urojected
growth rate is rather modest.  I]n real terms, the annual growth rate will be
around 18o.  Given that the private industrial investment in the medium- and
-large scale indulstries is expected to grow at a rate of 28% p.a., PICIC's
share in industrial finance will continue to decline.  PICIC's management is
fully aware of this but has deliberately opted for a strategy of slower
growth to ensure the high quality of its portfolio, avoird marginal proposi-
tions, and earn an adequate return on its capital.  Also, PICIC needts time to
rehuild the organization and its cadre of professional staff.  Therefore, the



ANTNEX 6
-117-                         Page 1l
strategy of slow growth for PICIC over the next few years is reasonable and
pragmatic.
23.     In addition, to continue making foreign exchange loans, P1r:!C is
planning to increase the pronortion of local currency financing to improve
the mix of its business and profitability. This will he achqieved by an
increase in utilization of SBP's suppliers credit facilities and working
capital financing funded by loan recoveries and interbank markets. It will
continue to reduce its exposure in the textile sector by financing projects
in other sectors especially agro-industries, chemical and engineering.
24.     Project Pipeline.  As of June 3n, lq83, PICIC hacl abrout 20 loan
applications under active consideration involving a total of US$47 million
(Annex 7). In addition, PICIC had a backlog of 11 approved proiects awaiting
funding of UJ$20 million.  PICIC's pipeline of projects is presently thin in
comparison to other D)FIs.  However, this is Aue to the Droblems in recent
years. Because of portfolio recovery efforts, lack of both local and foreign
resources, and organizational problems, PICIC has not been active in project
promotion.  In the future, PICIC intends to step up its Dromotional
activities particularly in the engineering and chemical sectors.  It has
modified its lending policies and loan agreements to enable it to compete
more efficiently with other DFIs.  These measures should have positive
impacts on PICIC's nipeline and business prospects. In anv case, the exist-
ing pipeline of projects should allow PICIC to meet its lending targets with
little difficulty.
Resource Requirements
25.     ks of June 30, 19R3, PICIC's untied foreign exchange resources con-
sisted of USS20 million from the AD11, wbich is adeouate to meet the commit-
ment requirements of approved projects. Based on the projected level of
commitments for 1983-1985, PICIC would need Rs 1.6 billion (US$125 million)
in new foreign exchange resources.  Under the proposed ADB loan, PTCTC is
expected to receive about TUS$40 million.  The gap of TSTW5 million is
expected to be financed by the Bank Group (US$20-30 million) bilateral sour-
ces, and direct access to the central pool of foreign exchange.  PICIC is
also exploring possibilities of raising commercial sources.  However, the
prospects for raising funds from this sources in the immediate future are not
very good.
Projected Financial Results and Conditions
26.     Attachments 3 provide PICI 's projected financial statements for
FYR3-FYR7. Barring any major downturn in the economy and in the nerformance
of the textile sector, PICIC's financial position should continue to improve.
Nlet profit after tax is proiected to increase from Rs 50 million in 1983 to
Rs 96 million in 1987.  Return on equitv is projected to improve graduallv
from 10.0% in 1983 to 13.37 by 1987.  This is low, but reasonable, in light
of PICIC's past performance. Administrative expenses as a percentage of
average total assets are projected to increase from 0.75% in 19R3 to 0.90,%
in 1987, reflecting higher staffing levels and more realistic compensation



ANNEX 6
-118-                         Page 11
packages.  The level of administrative expenses of less than 1% of assets is
reasonable and comnares well with established DFIs.
27.     Because of the expected improvements in profitability and loan
recoveries, PICIC's financial position is likely to improve.  Its DSCR is
prolected to remain marginallv above 1.1, which is the minimum requirement
for narticipation in the pool under the proposed project; long-term
debt/equity ratio is projected to remain well below the limit of 7:1.
28.     As of June 30, 1983, PICIC's portfolio affected by arrears amounted
to Rs 1 billion, or 40% of its outstanding loan portfolio. PICIC's official
reserve for losses were Rs 104 million, or 10% of the portfolio affected by
arrears.  However, PICIC had Rs 6on million in suspense accounts for unac-
crued interest. Together these reserves amounted to about 70% of the port-
folio affected by arrears, which is more than adequate to cover the necessary
write-offs.  PICIC is therefore creditworthv and it is reccmmended as a PFP
under the proposed project.



ANNEX 6
-119-                                                                       Attachment 1
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
Organization Chart
(As of August 15, 1983)
Chairman
NM Uquaili
Managing Director
IA Honfi
INSPECTION & SYSTEMS
DEPARTMENT
Chief
S.Z Kozi
Deputy Managing Director                    Deputy Managing Director                      Deputy Manoging Director
Waaudi Sh.HGY Dayala                                                                        Mutiur Rohmcin
LA_ ORE REGI                                  QUETTA OFFICE                         r  PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
OFFICE~                           I      _       _                             I  _       _       _      
Manager                                      Manager                           1        Senior Chief
Silkandar Rashid                             Iqbalur Rahim                                Ashfaq A Berdi
PESrlAWAR OFFICE                            LOAN DEPARTMENT                                ENGINEERING
____________________                         _ ___________________                    _         DEPARTMENT         .
Manager                                       Chief                                    Chief Engineer
Tahir Abbas                                 Syed Ibrahim                                  Fazal Band
ISLAMABAD OPFRCE                            LEGAL DEPARTMENT                             SPECIAL PROJECT
DEPARTMENT
Manager                                       Chief                          t_1
Incyatullah                               S Mohib Hussain                                 (Vacant)
MIRPUR (AK.)                                SECRETARIAT                          [       DEPAPTMENTV P
Secretary                                     Chief         1
(Vacant)                                Au dus Sami                             [         AG Mir
ACCOUNTS DEPARTMENT
Chief
Mahmud Al Khan
ECONOMIC & RESEARCH
DEPARTMENT
Ch,ef
S M. Abbosi
PERSONNEL SECTION
Personnel Officer
NA KaWmi
Wcrld Earnk-25499



ANNEX 6
Attachment 2
-120-                          Page
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREIDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Basic Data
1.      Year established                    1957
2.      Ownership                           Private Sector           51%
(as of December 1982)            GOP-owned institutions 49%
3.      Bank Group Assistance
Eleven loans/credits for US$273 million with s,atisfactory
implementation experience.
Last credit: 1019-PAK, signed on May 30, 1980 and effective on
October 29, 1980 for US$40 million equivalent of which US$3n.0
million equivalent dlisbu-rsed through April 15, 1983.
4.      PICIC Operations (R!3 million)
FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82
Gross sanctions                          281   377   376   378   366
Commitments                              187   177    47   408   328
Disbursements                            260   229    91   199   295
5.      Financial Ratios
Profitability
Net profit/averages net worth         11.2  11.2   9.0  10.2  11.6
Net profit/averag,s total assets       1.2   1.3   1.1   1.3   1.8
Administrative expenses/
average total assets                0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.9
Capital Structure
Debt/equity ratio                      6.0   5.6   5.0   4.7   4.7
6.      Foreign Currency Resource Position (12/31/82)
US$ Million
Available at beginning of the period                        12.4
less new commitments                                      23.3
plus new resource
IDA/ADB                                               37.2
KfW                                                    5.6
Other                                                 10.9
Available at end of the period                              42.8



-121-
ANNEX 6
Attachment 2
Page 2
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT ANT) INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Income Statements (1978-82)
(Rs million)
For the Year ended December 31              1978    1979      1980    1981    1982
INCOME
Interest income                              172      188      190      174      205
Commitment fees                               10        9        9       25        25
Total income from loans                    182      197      199      196      230
Income from short-term deposits               13       10       12       1?       10
Dividend income and capital gains             13       13         9       15       20
Total Income                               208      220      220      226      26n
EXPENSES
Interest on borrowings                       143      151      151      155      1R3
Provisions for bad debts                      -        -         4         2        9
Administrative expenses                       16       17       21        19      21
Total Expenses                            159      168      176      176      213
Profit before taxes                           49       52       44        50      47
Taxes                                         16       16         6       12       15
NET PROFIT                                    33       36       35       38       32
RATIOS
Net profit/average total asset               2.2      2.2      1.8      2.0      1.6
Administrative expenses/average
total assets                              0.7       0.7      0.8      0.8      0.7
Net profit/average networth                 11.2    11.1    11.0    10.2          7.3
Source: PICIC.



-122-
ANNEX 6
Attachment 2
Page 3
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Balance Shesets (1978-82)
(Rs million)
1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
As of December 31
ASSETS
Cash and short term deposits                      89        81        97         80      115
Government and other securities                    17       11         19       14          7
Accrued interest and charges                     362       439       507       535       570
Sundry current assets                              18        22       24        21        70
Total Current Assets                           486       552       647       650       762
Local currency loans                               96        85        78       158      465
Foreign currency loans                         1,727    1,755    1,715    1,653    1,960
Less: Provision for doubtful advances            (85)      (90)      (94)      (99)    (104)
Total Loans                                  1,737    1,750    1,699    1,712    2,321
Equity investment (at cost)                       86        89                   7 97    104
Fixed assets (net)                                  1         1         1         1         1
Receivables from Government of Pakistan             1         2         1         2         0
Assets blocked in E. Pakistan                    410       416       421       425       424
Total Assets                                 2,722    2,810    2,866    2,888    3,612
LIABILITIES AND NETWTORTH
Accounts payable                                   93        78        73         87      120
Provision for income tax                            5         7        -          -       90
Dividends payable                                 -         -         -                    11
Total Current Liabilities                       99        85    ___73          87      221
Foreign currency long-term borrowings          1,341    1,300    1,203        1,176   1,697
U.S. Aid rupee loan                               23        20        17          14       0
State Bank cash credits                          427       569       720        726      717
State Bank suppliers credits                      47        42        38         45       50
Subordinated government advances                  23        23        23          23      20
Rupee debentures                                   45        18       -           -       -
Total Debts                                  2,005    2,057    2,074        2,072   2,705
Paid-up capital                                   80         92       92          92     110
Capital reserves                                 219       237       271         279     279
Exchange fluctuation reserves                       8         8         8         19       94
Networth                                         306       337       371         390   _ 483
Liabilities in respect of E. Pakistan             410       416      421         425     424
Total Liabilities and Networth               2,722    2,810    2,866        2,888   3,612
Ratios
Equity to total debt                             5.3       5.6       5.7         5.5     5.5
Equity and subordinated loans
to long term debt                              5.1       5.2       5.2        4.9      4.7
Source: PICIC.



-123-                           ANNEX 6
Attachment 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Projected Income Statements (1983-87)
(Rs million)
1983    1984      1985      1986      1987
INCOME
Interest income                          274     312       357       403       451
Commitment fees                            6        7         7         8         9
Income from short-term investment         12       14        15        15        16
Equity investments                         8        8         8         8         8
Others 1/                                 35      40        45         50        55
Total Income                          336      380       433       484       539
EXPENSES
Interest on short-term borrowings          4        13        21        32        46
Interest on long-term borrowings        211       226       243       254        265
Commitment fees                            2         5         6         5         4
Administrative expenses                   25        29       33        38        44
Provision for doubtful debts              10        12        14        16        20
Total Expenses                        252       284       317       345       378
Gross income                              84        96       116       139      160
Less:  income tax                      33        38        46        56        64
Net Income                                50        58        69        84        96
Dividend                                  17        17        17        17        17
Add to retained earning                   33        41        52        67       79
1/  Income received in the period from unaccrued interests is included in
this item.



-124-                       ANNEX 6
Attac'hment3
Page 2
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Projected Balance Sheets (1983-87)
(Rs million)
1982     1983      1984      1935      1986     1987
(AcLual)
ASSETS 1/
Cash                                  50       78        81       108        83       99
Securities                           72        72        72        72        72      102
Accrued interest                    6i40      640       640       640      640       640
Loans-gross                       2,425    2,702    3,118    3,492    3,892    4,308
Less:  loss reserve              (104)    (114)    (126)    (140)    (156)    (176)
Loans-net                         2,321    2,588    2,992    3,352    3,736    4,132
Other investments                   1L04      14        104       104      104       104
Fixed assets                           1        1        11        17        22       22
TOTAL ASSETS                      3,118    3,483    3,900    4,923    4,657    5,100
LIABILITIES AND NETWORTH 1/
Current liabilities                 221       221       221       221      221       221
Short-term borrowings                  0      100       200       300      444       571
Long-term borrowing               2,484    2,646    2,922    3,163    3,316    3,553
Total Liabilities               2,705    2,967    3,343    3,684    3,981    4,345
Paid-up capital                     1.10      110       110       110      110       110
Reserve & Retained earnings          373      406       447       499       566      645
Networth                          483       516       557       609      676       755
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NETWORTH    3,188    3,483    3,900    4,293    4,657    5,100
_/ Assets and liabilities in East Pakistan are excluded.
Source: PICIC and mission estimates.



-125-
ANNEX 6
Attachment 3
Page 3
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Projected Cash Flows (1983-87)
(Rs Million)
1983      1984     1985        1986       1Q87
Previous Period
Cash                                     50        78        81        108         83
Securities                               72        72       72          72        722
Beginning balance                       122       150       153        180        155
Additions in Period
Cash income-operations                   60        70        83        100        116
Net income                            (50)      (58)      (69)       (84)       (96)
Loss reserves                        (10)      (12)      (14)       (16)        (20)
Loan collections                       227        269      307        342         391
New short-term borrowings               100      200       300         444        571
New long-term borrowings               345        485       500        450        560
Sub Total                            732    1,024    1,190        1,335      1,638
Subtractions in Period
Loan disbursements                      504      684       682         742        807
Increased fixed asset                     0       10          6          5          0
Mature short-term borrowings              0       100       200        300        444
Mature long-term borrowings             183       209       259        297        323
Dividend                                 17        17        17         17         17
Sub Total                            704    1,020    1,164        1,361      1,591
Balance - End of Period                 150      153       150         155        201
Source: PICIC and mission's estimate.



-126-                        ANNEX 7
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRAL INESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
PIPELINE OF PROJECTS (As of June 30, 1983)
(USS Million)
NDFC         IDBP         PICIC         TOTAL
Agrobased                        73.1          8.4          10.0          91.5
Steel & Engineering              39.3         16.9           8.3           64.5
Cement                           41.2           -              -          41.2
Cotton Textiles                   9.8         17.6            1.0          28.4
Other Textiles                     -          15.5           4.5          20.0
Chemicals                         2.5          9.8           8.3          20.6
Packaging                          -            -            7.0            7.0
Automobiles                       6.0           -             -             6.0
Electronics                        -            -             5.9           5.9
Mineral & Mining                   -           3.5            0.3           3.8
Construction                       -            -            0.4           0.4
Others                           13.5          6.1           7.6          27.2
Total                           185.4         77.8          47.4         316.5
Source: NDFC, PICIC, and IDBP.



ANNEX 8
-127-
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT 1/
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements Schedule
(Rs. million)
Commitments                 Disbursements            2/
Credit  T.A.  Total    Credit  T.A.   Total    _
FY85
July-September 1984               15.0      0.2   15.2        0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
October-December 1984             27.0      0.2   27.2        9.5    0.2      9.7      9.7
January-March 1985                28.0      0.3   28.3       18.5    0.2    18.7    28.4
April-June 1985                   25.0      0.3   25.8       17.0    0.3    17.3    45.7
Sub-total                       Q5.0      1.0   96.0      45.0    0.7    45.7    45.7
FY86
July-September 1Q85                3.n      0.3    3.3      13.0    0.3    13.3    59.0
October-December 1985               -       0.3    0.3       13.0    0.3    13.3    72.3
.January-March 1986                 -       0.3    0.3      12.0    0.3    12.3    84.6
April-June 1986                     -       0.1    0.1       10.0    0.3    10.3    94.9
Sub-total                        3.0      1.0    4.0      48.0    1.2    49.2    94.9
7Y87
July-September 1Q86                 -        -       -        5.0    0.1      5.1   100.0
October-December 1986               -        -       -         -      -        -        -
June-March 1987                     -        -       -         -      -        -        -
April-June 1987                     -        -       -         -               -        -
Sub-total                         -        -      -         5.0    0.1      5.1   100.0
Total                             98.0       -       -      98.0    2.0   100.0   100.0
1/  Assuming that the loan and credit will become effective on July 1, 1984.
2/ Percentages are cumulative.



ANNEX 9
-128-
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
A. The Manufacturing and Financial Sector
1. Pakistan - Industrial, Sector Strategy Paper (November 1, 1983)
2. Review of Pakistan's Financial System and Impact: on Inudstrial
Investment, IBRD Working Paper, July 1982
3. A Comparative Analysis of the Nationalized Commercia.l Banks and Foreign
Banks Operating in Pakistan, August 1983
4. State Bank of Pakistan, Annual Report (1982)
5. Sixth Five Year Plan (FY83-FY87)
B. Project Related Reports and Documents
1. IDRP's Annual Report (1982)
2. IDBP's Policy and Strategy Statements
3. PICIC's Annual Report (1982)
4. PICIC's Policy and Strategy Statements
5. NDFC's Annual Report (1982)
6. NDFC's Policy and Strategy Statement
7. HRL's Annual Report (1982)
8. HBL's Policy and Strategy Statement
9. TJBL's Annual Report (1982)
10. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations



IBRD 16248R
r                                   64                                             68! 2                                                        S5                          MAY 1983
NATIONAL CAPITAL                          H NA
PAKISTAN                                                                    SI f
36'                                            NAT1NAL CAPITALr
O   CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                  -7                   -
I                           _   ~~~~~~NATIONAL ROADS 
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAI LWAYS
-'tA    AIRPORTS                                                                          h sodc                    A        s .. ;
|_._ -PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                        <9         shea.
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                                   (-- Pes6o a-                Aienbsno
RIVERS                                                                                          R
32'                                              3T3
iD- A'
REPUBLIC   OF                                                                                        (                           0         '          20          300        400
r ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-    Sos oni                                   heE 
I RAN                J                                                   /4han   aro          (                           0         100      2's   C       300        40'
,J;     .--           WS                   I  S | {IR~~~~1    N    D                                                  L-  TS 
0   j,2'   <   3    ,          ,        ,      tonm a              f +t~~~~~~~~    ~     ~    ~~~~~~y lracod            The V/otrd Sank s stat sshtIusselv
Tho, -P bo'ss.c p05-55 b
Bulei Pt.    Krach    /,re-aers-easnd /nlsay  the
< ,< 4r tta   >                t)                   co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nsrpsat sse  The Pds anomnki
Mn rhe fsectInn d F,nbnk
Cososho  Thse--t-o,s ns
-24                                                                                              0 -!  aodm th4 an 'sCares  ases
he~~~~~~ 'in ns ,,np so os`lyld tcf,
h r r t_ # t1 .t    5 e    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~~~                                ars of Th WCarn One s9 :anntc
!                                   ss-h bcvndal es              |~~--p- b
164'                                            68'                                           72



