Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
'ALE CO?Y ,
Report No. P-3704-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$50.0 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 47.3 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
January 3, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1           = Rs 12.7
Rs 1           = US$ 0.0787
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ABL        Allied Bank Limited
ADB        Asian Development Bank
ADBP       Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
BEL        Banker's Equity Limited
DFIs       Development Finance Institutions
DSCR       Debt Service Coverage Ratio
EPF        Equity Participation Fund
FBC        Federal Bank for Cooperatives
GOP        Government of Pakistan
HIBL       Habib Bank Limited
ICP        Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP       Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IIC        Industrial Investment Credit
MCB        Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP        National Bank of Pakistan
NCBs       National Commercial Banks
NDFC       National Development Finance Corporation
NIT        National Investment Trust
PBC        Pakistan Banking Council
PICIC      Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation
PFIs       Participating Financial Institutions
PPCB       Punjab Provincial Cooperative Bank
PSEs       Public Sector Enterprises
PTC        Participation Term Certificate
SBFC       Small Business Finance Corporation
SBP        State Bank of Pakistan
SFYP       Sixth Five Year Plan - FY81-FY85
UBL        United Bank Limited



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Loan, Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:            Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corpora-
tion Ltd. (PICIC)
Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL), and
United Bank Ltd. (UBL).
Amount:  Loan:            US$50.0 million equivalent (including capitalized
front-end fee)
Credit:         SDR 47.3 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
Terms:   Loan:            Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Credit:         Standard terms.
On-Lending Terms:         The Government would relend the proceeds of the loan
and credit to the Participating Financial Institutions
(PFIs) at terms which would provide a spread of 3%-4%
to the PFI with an onlending rate of 14% (inclusive
of a 3% foreign exchange risk fee) to the final
borrowers. IDBP, PICIC and NDFC would repay their
loans over 15 years, including a grace period of
three years. The Nationalized Commercial Banks would
repay their loans on the basis of the actual amortiza-
tion schedule of each sub-loan. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Project Description:    The proposed project would support the Government's
efforts to improve the efficiency of the delivery
system for industrial finance by providing loans to
medium and large industrial enterprises in the private
and the public sectors through five PFIs. To address
institutional weaknesses in the PFIs technical assis-
tance and training is also included. While present
Government policies augur well for continued growth in
the industrial sector, the main risk for the proposed
project is that the PFIs would not achieve their lend-
ing targets because of institutional difficulties or
sluggish growth in the sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs
Local      Foreign       Total
---------US$ million---------
Industrial Credit Component                        150.0        97.9        247.9
Technical Assistance                                  -           2.0         2.0
Capitalized Front-End Fee                             -           0.1         0.1
Total                                         150.0        100.0        250.0
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total
---------US$ million---------
IBRD/IDA                                              -        100.0        100.0
Others                                             150.0           -        150.0
Total                                         150.0        100.0        250.0
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements:
FY85     FY86      FY87
-------US$ million----
Commitments                                              96.0       4.0       -
Disbursements
Annual                                              45.7     49.2       5.1
Cumulative                                          45.7     94.9    100.0
Appraisal Report: No. 4637-PAK dated December 30, 1983
Map: IBRD 16248R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
for the equivalent of US$50.0 million and a proposed Credit of SDR 47.3
million (US$50.0 million equivalent) to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to
help finance an Industrial Investment Credit Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including five years' grace, at the standard variable
interest rate; the credit would be on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of
the loan and credit would be onlent to the Participating Financial
Institutions (PFIs) at terms which would provide a spread of 3%-4% to the PFI
with an onlending rate of 14% (inclusive of a 3% foreign exchange risk fee)
to the final borrowers. IDBP, PICIC and NDFC would repay their loans over 15
years including a grace period of three years. The Nationalized Commercial
Banks would repay their loans on the basis of the actual amortization
schedule of each sub-loan. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
and interest rate risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Review of the Sixth
Five-Year Plan" (No. 4706-PAK, dated October 20, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
3.      Economic developments during FY83 were generally favorable.  GDP grew
by 5.8%, with value added in agriculture rising by 4.8% and in industry by
8.3%. Continued stagnation in (fixed) investment, which declined slightly
from 13.6% of GNP in FY82 to 13.3% of GNP in FY83, was among the few unfavor-
able events. National savings, on the other hand, rose sharply from 10.7% to
an estimated 14% of GNP. The declining trend in the rate of inflation
continued; as measured by the consumer price index, the rate of inflation
slowed from 9.7% in FY82 to 4.2% in FY83.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3701-PAK (Second Toot Oil and Gas Development
Project), dated December 19, 1983.



-2-
4.      There was a dramatic turnaround in the balance of payments in FY83.
The current account deficit, at US$429 million (1.4% of GNP), was less than
half the size of deficits in recent years. This outcome reflected three main
factors: a resumption in the growth of exports following a substantial
decline in FY82; a slight decline in the value of imports; and buoyant remit-
tances from migrant workers. The 13% growth in exports, which enabled
exports to nearly regain their FY81 level, was all the more impressive
because the value of all major exports except raw cotton and cotton yarn
declined. The striking feature of the export performance was the growth of
non-traditional exports, which increased by over a third. The drop in
imports reflected, inter alia, higher domestic production of oil and import-
substitution in some key commodities. The incipient recovery in world trade
and delinking of the exchange rate from the U.S. dollar in January 1982, with
its subsequent depreciation, contributed significantly to the improved
balance of payments picture. Given the favorable outcome on the current
account, normal levels of net inflows of long-term capital, and net IMF
purchases, Pakistan's reserves more than doubled. At the end of FY83, gross
official reserves stood at US$1,927 million, the equivalent of 3.5 months' of
imports of goods and non-factor services.
5.      Notable progress was made in many areas during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan Period (FY79-83). Real growth rates in national output (6.3%), agricul-
ture (4.4%), industry (9.1%) and exports (9.2%), though below Plan targets,
were all substantially above the rates achieved during 1970-78 and very
respectable compared to the performance of other LDCs over the same period.
This growth - coupled with increased inflows of migrant remittances -
benefited large segments of the urban and rural population. The output of
all major crops reached record levels and self-sufficiency in wheat and sugar
was achieved. Encouraged by improved government policies, private investment
in manufacturing expanded by 8% p.a. in real terms; this expansion was more
than offset by the declining public investment in the sector, however. The
balance of payments performance was quite satisfactory: the current account
deficit declined significantly relative to GDP and foreign exchange reserves
rose from the equivalent of 1.2 months of imports to 3.5 months. Government
fiscal and credit policies reduced budget deficits and monetary expansion and
inflationary pressures gradually subsided. This progress was made despite a
number of unforeseen events: (a) world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the
external terms of trade after 1979; (c) the Afghan crisis, which necessitated
increased outlays for defense and refugee assistance; and (d) a continued
decline in real net aid flows.
6.      The economy's good performance since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Middle East. Improvements in agricultural, industrial and fiscal and credit
pol.icies contributed significantly to better economic performance.
7.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to



-3-
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the
same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy (which has
been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the development
budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for other priority
agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices Commission has
been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in crop support
and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
8.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water
delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role of the
private sector, for example, through the promotion of private tubewell
development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides,
seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power--have also
been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an early stage and a
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet
to take place.
9.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricul-
tural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; con-
stitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against further
arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector
have been widened. A wide range of fiscal incentives have been granted to
encourage private investment and exports. These have been supplemented by a
liberalization of imports which has improved the availability of inputs. The
investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These measures have
led to an improvement in private sector confidence and stimulated private
investment, mainly in small and medium-scale projects.
10.     At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled
technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer



-4-
sub-sector, have helped to increase production and capacity utilization
substantially in the public sector.
11.     Fiscal performance improved significantly over the Fifth Plan period.
The overall budget deficit and government borrowing from the banking system,
which stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP in the first year of the Plan, fell to
6.4% and 1.7%, respectively, by the final year. Reduced levels of government
borrowing from banks, together with overall credit restraint, led to lower
rates of growth of the money supply and lessened inflationary pressures;
prices rose by 4% in the final year of the Plan as compared with 7% in the
first year. The improvement in fiscal performance was, however, largely the
result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue performance. Real
expansion in current expenditures on economic and social services barely kept
pace with population growth and development expenditures declined relatively
to GDP. At the same time, government revenues remained constant at 16% of
GDP and public savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period
from 1% to 3.8% of GNP, amounted to only 1.6%0 in the last year of the Plan.
Greater resource mobilization by the public sector will be critical for the
implementation of the Sixth Plan.
12.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent welcome
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which would limit long-term
economic growth are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently improved
economic performance over the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88) and bring
about a continuing modest improvement in the living standards of its popula-
tion. These issues include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity
in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector;
the need to restrain the growth of energy demand and improve the exploitation
of domestic energy resources; the factors lying behind continued rapid growth
in population; the need to redirect social service expenditures; and the
problems of resource mobilization.
13.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Except in the
important case of wheat, agricultural growth since the mid-1970s has been the
product of acreage expansion with little improvement in yields. Because of
the diminishing supply of uncultivated land, as well as the high cost of
extending the irrigation system, a switch to more intensive agriculture is
essential. The achievement of higher productivity will require improved
agricultural services and increased efficiency of the irrigation system as
well as continued attention to producer incentives. Toward the latter part
of the Fifth Plan, some progress was made in reorienting expenditures towards
projects designed to rehabilitate and improve the operation and maintenance
of the irrigation system, increase the efficiency of water use, improve
quality of research and extension, and increase the supply of complementary
agricultural inputs. These efforts will need to be accelerated during the



-5-
Sixth Plan period. At the same time, to limit budgetary requirements in the
water sector, private investment in irrigation and drainage in fresh
groundwater areas must be further encouraged. To encourage greater agricul-
tural yields, the Government must also continue to rationalize prices of
agricultural outputs and inputs. In recent years, pricing decisions have
been taken in a more systematic and timely fashion based on recommendations
by the newly formed Agricultural Prices Commission; procurement prices have
been brought more nearly in line with international prices and subsidies for
fertilizers and pesticides substantially reduced. These efforts, too, will
need to be continued during the Sixth Plan period.
14.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. After a period of
stagnation during the period 1970-77, manufacturing growth has again
accelerated averaging about 9% p.a. over the past six years. To provide a
solid economic basis for continued rapid growth, incentives for greater
private and public manufacturing enterprise efficiency will have to be
implemented. Despite some success in reviving the private sector and improv-
ing the performance of public enterprises, much remains to be done to bring
about a major restructuring of industry and place it on a competitive basis.
The efficient long-term development of the industrial sector will require
both a relaxation of government controls and rationalization of industrial
incentives. While incentives for manufactured exports have been improved,
the trade system still provides a very wide variation in incentives for the
domestic manufacture of various exportables and import substitutes. To
encourage industrial growth more in line with Pakistan's comparative
advantage, the process of import liberalization initiated over the past few
years must be continued. In addition, the differential rates of protection
given to various domestic products need to be substantially narrowed. To
provide further encouragement for private investment as well as to attract
risk capital, the number of administrative regulations must be reduced. In
addition, the scope of price controls should be substantially narrowed,
especially the use of cost-plus pricing which discourages improvements in
efficiency and energy conservation. Further strong measures to increase
efficiency and self-financing capacity in the public sector are also
essential; the performance standards expected of public enterprises must be
more clearly specified and managers given more responsibility and incentives
for meeting them. The implementation of the Public Enterprises Signaling
System in PY84--which will set performance objectives for individual
enterprises and provide bonus incentives for managers--will be a major step
toward reaching these objectives.
15.     Energy shortages have become a significant constraint to rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Power and gas shortages are common and the
country imports 90% of its petroleum needs costing over 26% of total imports.
Energy investments to improve the energy situation total over 33% of public
investment in the Sixth Five Year Plan. The Government's efforts to deal
with the energy situation by adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encourag-
ing the substitution of other energy forms and the exploration and develop-



-6-
ment of domestic oil resources, have met with some success. Growth of
petroleum consumption has been restrained by the development of hydroelec-
tricity and natural gas resources as well as by petroleum price adjustments.
At the same time, activity in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some
instances through joint ventures with foreign private companies. Never-
theless, due to a variety of technical, geological and other reasons,
progress on exploration of new fields as well as the development of existing
fields has been slow and Pakistan's considerable potential in the oil and gas
sector has yet to be realized. The Government has begun to implement a
number of reforms relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and
organization in order to accelerate progress.
16.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously handicapped
capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the
socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines in
fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved
health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that
population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services
have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban
'health facilities. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this
problem; a new and more promising population program is in the initial stages
of implementation, and several special programs to improve basic health and
,education facilities, especially in the rural areas, were introduced in the
FY83 budget.
17.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external resource
constraints. National savings, which averaged 12% of GNP over the Fifth Plan
Period, are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but
are still low for a country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage
of development. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a fun-
damental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the
economy, particularly in public savings. Given the size of the public
sector-s domestic resource requirements, a comprehensive strategy that util-
izes all available instruments, including taxation policy, greater reliance
on user charges, curtailment of open and implicit subsidies and improved
self-financing of investment by public enterprises, will be needed.
18.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated on July 1, 1983, represents a
pragmatic overall strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development. The
Plan puts heavy stress upon improvements in economic policies as well as on a
public expenditure program. Recognizing the importance of a dynamic private
sector for rapid economic growth and the limitations on public sector



-7-
resources, it calls for reduced regulations on the private sector, increased
emphasis on market incentives for greater production and eFficiency and for
increased participation in sectors where the Government has previously played
a large role. The size and composition of the public sector development
program is appropriate. While public development expenditures would expand
only as rapidly as gross domestic product, this is a realistic target given
projected available resources and the demands for improved public services.
To achieve such an expansion - a reversal of the declining trend experienced
under the Fifth Plan - and to finance an increasing share from domestic
resources will require a major mobilization effort. The largest increases in
sectoral allocations have gone to energy, agriculture and irrigation, and the
social sectors. The shift in the composition of the public sector develop-
ment program is justified because of the threat to future growth posed by
energy shortages, the need to increase agricultural yields by improvements in
agricultural and irrigation/drainage services, and the past neglect of the
social sectors.
19.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to face
a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in demand
management and in planning, incentives and government programs in agri-
culture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more conducive
to rapid economic growth and better international trade performance, and have
established an improved framework within which further reforms can be effec-
tively pursued. The Sixth Plan represents an important indication of the
Government's intention to continue these improvements. These policy initia-
tives have improved Pakistan-s creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and
for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing.
20.     At the end of calendar 1982, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.2 billion, of which US$4.8 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion
to OPEC and US$1.8 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1982, the Bank Group-s share in Pakistan's
external public indebtedness was 15.2% and in external debt service was
12.1%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports of
goods and factor and non-factor services), which was about 13.6% in FY82, is
likely to remain below 15% during the 1980s, even assuming substantial com-
mercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
21.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.9 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,



-8-
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation; 26% for industry
including import program credits; 21% for transport, telecommunications and
public utility services; 14% for energy including power, gas pipelines and
1?etroleum; 4% for social programs in education, population and urban
levelopment; and 5% for a SAL.
22.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
23.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding
investments, as recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the
Bank was executing agency.
24.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$274 mil-
lion for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC),
and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), total-
ing US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assistance
to three large fertilizer plants, a refinery engineering loan, as well as for
small-scale industry. As of September 30, 1983, IFC had made investments in
16 Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$182.0 million, of which US$170.4
million was by way of loans and US$11.6 million by equity participations
(these are shown in Annex II). About US$55.7 million of these investments
remained outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three in the
field of pulp and paper products, two each in textiles, food and food
processing, and petrochemicals, and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers,
plastics, and wood processing. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
25.     The Bank has had a long standing involvement in the energy sector.
In power, the Bank Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
(KESC) and the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and
three projects respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the con-
struction under the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela
Dams. In petroleum, the two Sui gas transmission companies have been
assisted with five projects, while the Bank group is financing two petroleum



-9-
projects, for production and exploration, and is playing an important role in
strengthening the public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. An IDA credit
to support a Coal Exploration Project was recently approved. These efforts
are assisting in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's
domestic energy resources and in establishing a policy and institutional
framework for increased private investment in the sector. In addition, IFC
has made three loans in the petroleum sector.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port
Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and federal
and provincial highway agencies. IDA has financed four projects in the urban
and water supply sector, three of which are currently being implemented.
Five credits for education, totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in
upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher technical and agricultural
education, middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural exten-
sion agents. A first population project was recently approved.
27.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment lend-
ing operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1982.
This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in government
development planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy
and industrial sectors.
28.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of September 30, 1983. Credit and loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted
government procedures for project approval, which are being addressed, and
to slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East,
and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
29.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
power transmission and generation, direct and indirect industrial investments,
oil and gas development, irrigation, agriculture and education. Pakistan
continues to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in
Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other high-
priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing of
some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
30.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assis-
tance within the Pakistan Consortium.



-10-
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
31.     Industrial Structure and Performance.  In FY82 industryl/ accounted
for about 23% of GDP and employed 19% of the economically active population.
Manufactured and semi-manufactured pr)ducts accounted for 55% of total
exports, of which textiles accounted for 40%. Textiles and food processing
industries are estimated to account f,r more than half of manufacturing value
added; other major sectors are engineering and chemicals. In large-scale
industry, public sector enterprises (PSEs) produce about 15% of value added
and have substantial shares in a number of key industries (cement,
fertilizers, chemicals and heavy engineering).
32.     During the 1970s, GOP nationalized a large part of industry.  The
present Government, which took office in 1977, has taken several measures to
reverse these policies, and is committed to having the private sector play a
leading role in industrial development. In this regard, GOP has already
denationalized most agricultural processing and a number of manufacturing
units, introduced safeguards against nationalization, widened areas open to
the private sector, restricted public sector industrial investment to the
completion of ongoing projects and key marginal investments, liberalized
trade policy, and introduced a range of export and investment incentives. As
a result of these measures, private investment and output has improved since
1977, real annual growth has averaged 9% for industrial value added, 10% for
private fixed industrial investment, 10% for manufactured exports, and 4% for
industrial employment.
33.     Industrial Strategy and the SFYP.  GOP's industrial strategy for the
SFYP sustains the strategy and policies pursued since 1977. Encouragement of
the private sector will continue with GOP concentrating on removing
infrastructure bottlenecks and acting as investor of last resort. The Plan
envisages a reduced dependence on imports in sectors such as cement, fer-
tilizers and edible oils. The drive to expand and diversify exports will
focus on agro-based industries, with other sectors such as engineering and
selected textiles also making major contributions. The Plan targets strong
growth in the industrial sector. Real growth of industrial output and value
added is expected to be 9% p.a. Manufactured exports are projected to grow
by about 11% p.a. in real terms, which would increase the share of manufac-
tured exports from 55% to 64% of total exports by FY88. Private industrial
investment is expected to grow at 29% p.a. in nominal and 22% in real terms.
The ratio of industrial investment to GDP is projected to increase from 4% in
FY83 to 5.3% by FY88.
I/ Including construction.



-11-
34.     During the SFYP period, GOP projects a substantial acceleration of
private industrial investment. Medium and large scale private fixed
investment, of about US$304 million in FY83, is projected to grow by 34.5%
p.a. (28% in real terms) during the Plan period. This compares with 25%
nominal growth and 12% real growth annually during the first four years of
the Fifth Plan (FY78-FY82). Medium and large scale private fixed investment
during FY84-86 is projected at US$1.7 billion, with about US$600 million in
foreign exchange. This level is supported by the existing pipelines of
projects of IDBP, NDFC and PICIC, for which foreign exchange requirements are
about US$316 million and the two commercial banks which have pipelines of
about US$300 million. The proposed project of US$100 million and a similar
ADB project would meet part of these requirements.
35.     The success of the Plan's industrial strategy will depend, to a large
extent, on GOP's ability to address problems in the industrial sector includ-
ing the incentive structure, industrial regulations and controls, the
efficiency of PSEs, and infrastructure deficiencies. The Bank Group is
supporting GOP's industrial strategy through an active policy dialogue,
economic sub-sector work, technical assistance and project lending. Under
the Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1256-PAK), GOP commissioned a com-
prehensive study of effective protection to guide it in simplifying and
reforming tariffs and industrial incentives. Bank Group financing of techni-
cal assistance is now being used in converting the results of the study into
a reform program, and is developing institutional capabilities to use effec-
tive protection principles in continuous incentive reform. On public
enterprises, the Bank Group is supporting the implementation of a performance
evaluation and incentive system to reward performance on the basis of agreed
targets. Based upon recommendations of a Bank Group financed study, GOP
recently announced the adoption of a management bonus system in FY84 for 21
of the 55 PSEs; enterprise-specific targets will be negotiated every year and
bonuses of up to three months of salary will be paid to managers on the basis
of established performance grades. Deregulation and "cost plus" pricing are
being addressed at the sub-sector and project levels. Infrastructure
improvements are being supported through ongoing projects in
Telecommunications, Transport, Water Supply and Power. Industrial energy
conservation is being tackled in the fertilizer and refinery sectors. The
proposed industrial investment credit project will focus on rationalizing and
strengthening the delivery system for industrial finance.
36.     Structure of the Financial System.  The financial system in Pakistan
consists of nationalized and foreign commercial banks, and a range of spe-
cialized financial institutions. The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), the
central bank, regulates and directs the financial system. Within overall
policies set by GOP and the SBP, the Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) guides
and regulates the functions of and flow of funds to the nationalized commer-
cial banks (NCBs), while the Ministry of Finance monitors the operations of
the other financial institutions.



-12-
37.     With total assets of Rs 194.6 billion, or 80% of the assets of the
financial system as of June 30, 1982, and a network of around 7,200 branches,
commercial banks play a dominant financing role. Five NCBs accounted for
about 91% of deposits, 85% of advances, 82% of commercial bank net profits.
Since 1979, a number of steps have been taken to improve the overall perfor-
rmance of the NCBs: branch expansion has been limited; uneconomic branches
are being closed down; hiring of staff, except for middle level management,
has been stopped; a staff performance review and disciplinary system has been
introduced; promotion is now based more on merit than seniority; central
training institutes such as the Institute of Bankers are being strengthened;
and NCBs will be allowed to build up their capital to a prudent level, with
GOP not requiring dividends for the next three years. These actions resulted
in a 91% increase in NCB's profitability in FY82, with further improvements
projected in FY83.
38.     In the area of term lending operations, commercial bank long-term
lending to the manufacturing sector (37% of total advances in FY82) is well
above the level observed in other developing countries. This is due in large
part to GOP's policy of encouraging commercial banks to provide term loans
for industry, directly and through consortium lending led by the development
finance institutions. From 1978 to 1982, advances by the commercial banks
increased from Rs 28.5 billion to Rs 57.4 billion, with the manufacturing
sector receiving the major share.
39.     A number of specialized financial institutions fund medium and large
industry. The Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), and the
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC) - the only
financial institution with majority private ownership - makes foreign
exchange loans to medium- and large-scale private industry. National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) provides term financing and working
capital to the public and private industrial sectors. Three joint venture
companies, Pak-Kuwait, Pak-Libya and Pak-Saudi, have been established
recently to provide loans and venture capital to industry. The Investment
Corporation of Pakistan (ICP) arranges industrial equity financing and con-
sortium lending by NCBs, and manages close end mutual funds. Bankers Equity
Ltd. (BEL) provides risk capital to private industry by underwriting equity
issues and arranging consortia financing by NCBs.
40.     Sources of Industrial Finance.  One notable change is the industrial
financing system during the last decade has been the emergence of the NCBs
and new specialized institutions as a major force in term lending.
Initially, IDBP and PICIC were the main institutions providing term financing
for industrial development. However, in 1982 GOP allowed NDFC to diversify
its activities to include lending to the large- and medium-scale private
sector; NDFC is now the largest industrial lending institution in Pakistan.
Other institutions such as BEL, ICP and the joint venture companies also have
increased their role in term financing of private industry taking over a
large part of the market area serviced by IDBP and PICIC.



-13-
41.     Although the increase in the number of institutions involved in term
financing means more outlets, institutional imbalances and anomalies have
been created in the process. NDFC, while not a scheduled bank, has been
allowed to perform most commercial banking functions; this latitude in bor-
rowing and lending operations has helped it outperform PICIC and IDBP in
recent years. IDBP is a scheduled bank but has chosen not to perform full
banking operations; while empowered to raise short term deposits, IDBP's
Charter restricted its ability to finance working capital. PICIC is
restricted by the Nationalization Act of 1974 from performing banking func-
tions such as deposit taking, export finance, and participating in the inter-
bank market. Thus, PICIC is forced to rely almost exclusively on multi-
lateral lines of credit for its resources. PICIC also is subject to cor-
porate tax whereas NDFC, and the three Pak-Middle East joint venture com-
panies are exempt, although they compete in the same market. Several of
these issues are now being addressed as a result of the proposed project
(paragraph 53).
42.     In spite of the NCBs  increasing involvement in industrial term
financing, they have not fully developed their project appraisal
capabilities. About 80% of the NCBs lending for fixed industrial investment
has been carried out through consortia organized by BEL, ICP and NDFC. While
these institutions will continue to provide appraisal and supervision serv-
ices for large-scale consortium financing, the NCBs increasing involvement
in project financing warrants an upgrading of their internal project evalua-
tion and supervision capabilities. Under the Small Scale Industries Project
(Cr. 1113-PAK), the NCBs have strengthened their project-based lending
capabilities. GOP and the PBC agree on the need to build this expertise for
larger industrial projects.
43.     The Capital Market.  After a promising start in the late 1950s, when
substantial savings were invested in new equity issues and dividend rates
were high, the capital market ceased to be a major source of industrial
financing, stagnating from the late 1960s to the end of the 1970s. In 1982
and 1983, however, there were signs of a resurgence in stock market activity
with issues oversubscribed and dividends increased. Although improving,
trading volumes remain low, with about 85% of listed shares controlled by
management groups and public investment institutions. As a result, the stock
market is still not a significant source of funds for industrial investment.
GOP is exploring appropriate measures to resolve the situation including
setting up independent money market trading houses to provide a market for
corporate commercial papers and debentures; introduction of leasing as a
supplementary source of project finance; and setting up independent invest-
ment companies to provide venture capital.
44.     Islamization.  Since 1981, GOP has introduced a number of changes in
the financial system as part of its Islamization process. The objective of
financial Islamization is partial shifting from an interest-based financial
system to one operating on the principle of profit and loss sharing (PLS).
Changes in the financial system relevant to industrial finance include the



-14-
introduction of: (i) PLS working capital loans (Musharika); (ii) participa-
tion term certificates (PTCs) based on the PLS principle, to replace deben-
ture financing; (iii) Modaraba companies, which operate as investment funds
in accordance with Islamic tenets; and (iv) the conversion of a number of
non-bank financial institutions, including National Investment Trust, House
Building Finance Corporation and Small Business Finance Corporation, to a
non-interest basis of operation.
45.     Since the process of Islamization is being implemented gradually and
pragmatically, it is too early to evaluate its full economic and financial
implications. However, indications are that, on the whole, Islamization has
had a positive impact. By not imposing restrictions on the terms and condi-
tions which can be negotiated between lenders and borrowers using the new
instruments, GOP is in effect freeing financial rates of return. This
applies in particular to term financing through PTCs, and the arrangements
for hire purchase and leasing currently under consideration. Since there are
a number of potential problems in the operation of a parallel interest and
PLS-based system, GOP will remain involved in the regulation of the financial
system for some time. During this process, GOP may find it difficult to
adjust interest rates on traditional term lending and, without the
flexibility afforded by interest rates, may have to continue to resort to
direct intervention in financial markets to meet its macroeconomic and
developmental objectives.
46.     Credit Allocation.  An important feature of the growth and distribu-
tion of domestic credit in Pakistan is the centralized system of credit
allocation. Despite its inherent drawbacks, this system has functioned
reasonably well in responding to credit requirements of the private sector.
However, the system will need to be made more responsive to changing market
conditions. GOP is aware of the need to increase the flexibility of the
system, and has taken measures to improve coordination and reallocate funds
based on actual requirements.
47.     Interest Rates.  The interest rate structure for deposit-taking
institutions is characterized by a crossing of rates; deposit rates rise with
maturity while domestic lending rates fall with maturity. Interest rates on
domestic term loans are fixed at 11%, while working capital loans carry a
rate of 14%. Deposit rates, on the other hand, rise with maturity from 5.5%
p.a. for 7 to 29 day deposits to 13% p.a. for five-year deposits. Foreign
exchange loans made by the DFIs are normally made at 14%, including 3% for-
eign exchange risk fee payable to the Government. Issues relating to inter-
est rates have been discussed extensively with GOP. GOP agrees that indirect
subsidized lending for selected sectors and the crossing of deposit and term
lending rates, which leads to a negative spread on term lending, acts as a
disincentive to NCB lending. However, GOP does not feel that an immediate
revision of interest rates is necessary as real interest rates are rising
rapidly as a result of lower inflation and under its stated policy of
Islamization the cost of funds is becoming more responsive to market
conditions.



-15-
Bank Group Lending Strategies
48.     To date, the Bank Group has supported industrial investment credit
in Pakistan through individual lending to three development finance institu-
tions (DFIs): IDBP, NDFC and PICIC. Among the three DFIs, the Bank Group
involvement with PICIC has been largest in volume. Up to 1982, 11 loans and
credits totalling US$274 million have been made to PICIC for onlending to
medium- and large-scale private sector projects. Three loans and credits
totalling US$80 million have been made to IDBP for direct lending and to
refinance commercial banks' loans to a large number of small industrial
projects. US$30 million has been channeled to NDFC for financing large
projects in the public manufacturing sector. Project completion reports for
previous industrial credits to PICIC, IDBP and NDFC have been prepared and a
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) was completed for the credit to IDBP,
Credit 177-PAK.1/ These reports concluded that for PICIC and IDBP the
institution strengthening objectives of Bank lending had been considerably
constrained by political and economic events. Nonetheless, the institutional
capability of IDBP and NDFC had improved during the period of the credits.
The major problem then facing IDBP and PICIC was their low collections and
resulting high level of arrears. Many of these problems had emanated from
the massive devaluation of the rupee in 1972, the partition of East Pakistan
and subsequent nationalization of major private industries, as a result of
which PICIC and IDBP ran into severe financial problems. The Bank Group and
ADB have worked closely with GOP to revitalize the institutions. With the
concrete measures taken by GOP and the net management of PICIC and IDBP,
substantial progress has been made since 1981, and the medium term prospects
for both institutions are generally good.
49.     The rationale for dealing individually with the DFIs was their
clearly defined roles in different market segments. IDBP concentrated on
SSIs, PICIC catered to medium and large private industries, and NDFC dealt
with the public sector. Since 1981, however, considerable overlap in the
client base of the DFIs has developed. IDBP and PICIC now both concentrate
on direct lending on medium- and large-scale private industries, while
lending to SSIs is handled mainly by the NCBs. Also the NCBs were instructed
by GOP to fill the gap in industrial term lending created by the resurgence
in credit demand and the financial problems of IDBP and PICIC. By FY82,
annual term lending to industry by NCBs was about Rs 1.4 billion (US$110
million). Under the SFYP, the NCBs are expected to finance 34% of private
industrial investment or about three times the combined lending of all DFIs
including the three Middle Eastern finance companies.
50.     Given these changes in the environment and the decline in the share
of industrial financing by the DFIs, the Bank Group needs to reorient its
1/ Report No. 2555, dated June 22, 1979 (SecM79-494).



-16-
lending strategy, moving to focus on the system of industrial financing as a
whole. By doing so, the Bank Group would be positioned to discuss general
financial sector issues with GOP, and to influence the relative roles and
performance of key institutions in industrial finance. The Bank Group can,
at the same time, continue to assist in strengthening the DFIs by estab-
lishing strict eligibility criteria to bring about necessary institutional
reforms without affecting the flow of credit to private industry. By involv-
i'ng the NCBs, the Bank Group can help improve the appraisal and supervision
capabilities of these major sources of industrial finance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.     The proposed project addresses a number of the issues affecting
industrial financing including the efficiency with which funds for industrial
investment are delivered. It expands the Bank Group's involvement with key
institutions engaged in industrial finance, by including two major commercial
banks.
'2.     The proposed project was appraised in March 1983.  Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. from November 29 to December 2, 1983; the Pakistan
Delegation was led by Mr. Inamul Haq, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan Industrial Investment Credit
P'roject" (Report No. 4637-PAK, dated December 30, 1983) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is
attached as Annex III.
P'roject Objectives and Scope
53.     The proposed project is designed to: (i) improve credit delivery for
industrial finance by focussing on the system as well as individual
institutions; (ii) reduce the possibility of jeopardizing industry's access
to term finance as a result of a participating institution's non-compliance
writh conditionality/eligibility criteria by expanding the sources of
financing; (iii) remove operating anomalies which hamper competition among
DFIs; (iv) encourage competition among PFIs by expanding and improving the
services offered by them; (v) strengthen individual institutions through
technical assistance programs; and (vi) develop a more consistent and con-
tinuous method of providing foreign exchange financing for industry in
P'akistan. The design of the project would enable the Bank Group to work with
GOP in addressing the problems affecting the flows of industrial credit in a
systematic manner, while maintaining a direct involvement with individual
institutions. The capabilities of IDBP and PICIC would be enhanced by
instituting a number of operational and institutional improvements, and
upgrading programs would be implemented in the other institutions to enable
their participation in the proposed project. Appraisal and supervision
capabilities of the NCBs would be strengthened and NCBs would be able to



-17-
provide clients with a full range of banking services including foreign
exchange term loans.
Project Cost, Components and Financing Plan
54.     As of June 30, 1983, the foreign exchange requirements of the DFIs
for the period FY84-86 totalled US$316 million (see paragraph 34) while that
of Habib Bank Limited (HBL) and United Bank Limited (UBL) is estimated at
US$300 million. To meet a part of these requirements, a loan and credit
package of US$98 million (including a front-end fee of US$0.2 million)
through a 50:50 blending of IBRD and IDA funds is recommended. The remaining
foreign exchange gap would be financed by a US$100 million ADB credit line
which is similar in structure to the proposed project,l/ free foreign
exchange allocations from the SBP (US$100 million), bilateral lines of
credit, and from other foreign sources arranged by the sub-project sponsors.
In addition, the NCBs, which have overseas offices and funding capability,
would blend their resources with the funds from the proposed loan and credit.
A US$2 million technical assistance component would finance (i) organization
and system studies (US$750,000); (ii) training (US$750,000); and (iii) sub-
sector studies (US$500,000). The organization and system studies which have
been agreed in principle would be focused at the DFIs. A major part of the
training component would be used by the participating NCBs to strengthen
their appraisal capabilities, while HBL, NDFC and PICIC are expected to
utilize the funds for subsectoral studies aimed at manufactured export
industries. The Bank Group would review all technical assistance subprojects
(Section 3.02(v) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
55.     Three DFIs, IDBP, NDFC and PICIC, and two NCBs, Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL)
and United Bank Ltd. (UBL), have been selected to participate in the proposed
project subject to fulfillment of terms and conditions of eligibility. The
main eligibility conditions are that their respective Boards approve
Statements of Strategy and Operating Policy and undertake the training
programs which were agreed during negotiations (Schedule 1 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The agreed Strategy Statements (i) outline
the PFI's credit policies for term lending, (ii) quantify the PFI's expected
involvement in industrial financing, (iii) indicate sub-sector lending
priorities, (iv) detail institutional upgrading necessary to achieve opera-
tional objectives, and (v) outline appraisal and end use criteria/procedures.
The agreed training programs provide for intensive exposure to current prac-
tice in working capital operations, development banking (including economic
aspects of project evaluation) and sub-sectoral analysis. The latter would
be closely linked with the proposed sub-sector study program of each PFI. As
1/ ADB appraised an Industrial Investment Project in July 1983 and Board
approval is expected in early 1984.



-18-
relatively new participants in the field of industrial financing, staff from
the NCB's would be required to undergo intensive pre-participation training.
HBL has already established an adequately staffed project financing section,
which is a condition for its access to project funds (Schedule 2, paragraph
(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). All PFIs would also be
required to enter into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with GOP in order to make
withdrawals from the proceeds of the proposed loan/credit. The execution of
at least one Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan and credit (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Access to the pool of unallocated funds (paragraph 69) by any
DFI would be dependent upon meeting agreed financial ratios (debt/equity and
debt service coverage), and collection targets (Schedule 2 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
56.     Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP).  IDBP was established
in August 1961 to finance small and medium sized enterprises. In 1969, it
was 58% owned by GOP and 42% by private institutional and individual
investors; in 1974, the private shareholdings were taken over by GOP under
the nationalization of the domestic banks. In 1971, when the partition of
East Pakistan took place, IDBP, with its headquarters in Dhaka, faced severe
operational and financial difficulties, which were exacerbated with the 130%
devaluation of the rupee in 1972 and subsequent nationalization of major
private industries. During the early 1970s, the textile sector, which
accounted for about half of IDBP's portfolio, suffered from several years of
low international prices and slack demand with resultant delays in payment to
IDBP.  By 1980, the impact of economic recession and financial difficulties
was such that the institutional fabric of IDBP has been severely weakened.
57.     The Bank Group and ADB have been working closely with GOP to improve
the operations and financial structure of IDBP. In 1981, under an IDA credit
of US$30 million (Cr. 1186-PAK), GOP initiated an action program of far
reaching measures to increase recoveries and strengthen DFIs.l/ These
included: (i) the passing of a special debt recovery ordinance; (ii) cur-
tailment of credit by the commercial banks to defaulting borrowers; (iii)
disallowance of investment sanctions to the defaulters to the DFIs; (iv)
establishment of a GOP committee for sick projects headed by the Secretary of
Finance; (v) a joint GOP/IDA/ADB periodic review of the loan recovery perfor-
mance of the DFIs; and (vi) a presidential order ruling on the issue of the
exchange rate for debt settlement. A new Managing Director was appointed in
mid-1982, and has been effectively addressing the problems faced by IDBP. As
a result of these actions, IDBP has reduced its debt/equity ratio to 4.6:1
1/ IDBP and PICIC were both effected by the partition of East Pakistan in
1971, the rupee devaluation and the nationalization of major private
sector industry. A similar action program was developed for PICIC, and
GOP and the Bank Group meet regularly with ADB to monitor the performance
of both institutions.



-19-
and improved its DSCR to 1:1. Significant progress has been made toward
meeting its collection targets and improving the quality of its portfolio.
To facilitate IDBP providing a broader range of banking services, as recom-
mended by the Bank Group, GOP has recently passed legislation amending the
IDBP Ordinance which allows IDBP more flexibility in making working capital
loans and mobilizing deposits.
58.     To position itself to compete in the changing financial environment,
IDBP has prepared a new business strategy and policy statement. With its
financial restructuring and implementation of its new business strategy, IDBP
should be able to improve its performance over the next few years. IDBP's
term lending operations are projected to grow at a real rate of 5%-6% p.a.
while increasing working capital loans to about Rs 200 million p.a. by FY87
and expanding deposits at a rate of Rs 200 million p.a.
59.     During FY84-FY86, IDBP plans to lend Rs 1.8 billion with about Rs 845
million (US$67 million) in foreign exchange from its existLng ADB loan (US$40
million); from Cr. 1186-PAK (US$5.0 million); and the balance from the
proposed project. IDBP's local currency requirements would be met by
increases in deposits, two new debenture issues, recoveries and retained
earnings. Because of the recent measures taken by GOP to restructure IDBP's
liabilities (paragraph 57), higher levels of activity, and a better business
mix, IDBP's financial results and position during FY84-FY88 are projected to
remain satisfactory with a debt/equity ratio of 5:1 and DSCR of 1.1:1.
60.     National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC).  In January 1973,
GOP set up NDFC to provide local and foreign currency financing, both short
and long-term, to the industries nationalized in 1972,1/ and to the
industrial units wholly or partially owned by GOP. NDFT's management ini-
tially placed heavy emphasis on mobilizing domestic resources by way of
deposits and building NDFC into a viable financial institution. Because the
bulk of NDFC's deposits were of less than one year in maturity, it had to
place funds accordingly for liquidity reasons. NDFC's term lending opera-
tions were funded out of an IDA credit (Cr. 546-PAK), approved in 1975, its
equity, and suppliers' credits from SBP. With the changes in GOP industrial
policy which restricted public industrial investment and enhanced the role of
the private sector, NDFC's role in term financing of public enterprise became
limited. The situation was complicated further by a scarcity of long-term
resources which forced NDFC to continue increasing its working capital loan
portfolio. In 1979, NDFC adopted a strategy of diversification and mobi-
lization of additional resources; at the same time, its role and lending
policies were redefined to allow it to finance private sector projects within
certain restrictions. In 1982, the restrictions were removed allowing NDFC
1/ In 1972, GOP took over the management of 31 major manufacturing
enterprises in the key sub-sectors.



-20-
to finance project4 in the private sector while remaining the banker for
existing public sector enterprises.
61.     NDFC has performed well during a difficult political and economic
period and has developed into a well managed and profitable DFI. During
FY78-FY82, NDFC's assets increased by 23% p.a. while lending grew by 30% p.a.
Growth was financedi mainly by deposits, which expanded by 17% annually during
the period. NDFC earned an average of 20% on its net worth and its
debt/equity ratio -emained well below the agreed 5:1 level. As of December
31, 1982, arrears -epresented 5.4% of NDFC's portfolio. NDFC's financial
position and portfolio augur well for continued growth. NDFC's total loan
approvals are projected to increase at an annual compounded rate of 12% in
real terms reaching Rs 6.6 billion by FY87; these growth expectations,
predominantly in lending to private industry, are likely to be exceeded.
NDFC has prepared - Corporate Strategy Statement for FY83-FY87 which outlines
NDFC's objectives, sector priorities, major operational plans and resource
mobilization goals; these statements emphasize measures NDFC plans to take in
its vigorous expansion in lending to private industry.
62.     Based on its foreign currency lending projections, NDFC would need
about US$275 million for loan commitments during FY83-FY87. As of August 30,
1983, NDFC's uncommitted foreign exchange resources consisted of US$40 mil-
lion from its second ADB loan, leaving a gap of US$235 million. The new ADB
loan is expected to cover an additional US$50 million; an initial allocation
of US$15 million is provided under the proposed project; and a further US$50
million in foreign exchange would be available from GOP's free foreign
exchange resources. Assuming the market conditions are favorable, NDFC plans
to borrow at least US$50 million in Euro dollar markets in 1985. NDFC's
projected financial statements for FY83-FY87 indicate continued strong finan-
cial viability with asset growth of 25% p.a. Net profit as a percentage of
average net worth is projected to remain over 25% during the period, giving
N-DFC a DSCR above 1.1 and a debt/equity ratio of less than 7:1.
63.     The Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC).
PICIC was set up in 1957, with technical and financial assistance from the
Bank Group as a privately-owned corporation to provide term loans mainly in
foreign currencies to private industry. PICIC performed very well during the
1960s and developed into a sound institution.  However, the 1970s proved to
be a very difficult period for DFIs in Pakistan (paragraph 56). PICIC's
situation was complicated by its management's decision to resolve financial
problems through litigations and GOP rulings rather than through direct
negotiations with its clients. By mid-1981, PICIC was in serious financial
difficulties and needed massive liquidity support from the SBP to meet its
debt obligations. During this period, PICIC also lost a large number of its
experienced professional staff, weakening its operational structure. The
Bank Group and ADB have worked closely with GOP to resolve PICIC-s
difficulties. The last Bank credit/loan to PICIC was approved in 1980 (Cr.
1019-PAK).



-21-
64.     During FY81-FY82, GOP took a number of actions to revitalize PICIC
and a new managing director was appointed in late 1981. However, the
unwieldly structure and composition of PICIC's Board and some lack of clarity
in the decision-making process still limited the effectiveness of PICIC's
management. Over the past year GOP has moved to address these issues by
increasing the loan approval authority of the Executive Committee and
confirming, through a resolution of the Board, the Managing Director as the
Chief Executive of PICIC. As a result of these measures and concerted
efforts made by the new management, PICIC's collections are ahead of agreed
targets and it has been able to repay its borrowings from the SBP. A finan-
cial restructuring of PICIC's portfolio is now practically complete and this
has given PICIC's management an opportunity to focus on its future. In 1983
the improvement in PICIC's financial condition allowed it to declare a 10%
cash dividend for the first time since 1979 and share prices, which hovered
around Rs 6.50 during 1982, had risen to Rs 9.25. The new Managing Director
has made a very positive contribution to PICIC. During negotiations, an
understanding was reached with GOP that in the event a new Managing Director
is to be appointed, the Bank Group would be consulted.
65.     Based on the industrial policy outlined in the SFYP (paragraph 33),
PICIC has prepared a new business strategy and amended its policy statement.
A key feature of the strategy is an emphasis on increasing PICIC-s working
capital portfolio in order to reach a long/short-term portfolio composition
of 70:30. PICIC's lending operations are projected to increase, in real
terms, by 18% p.a. to reach Rs 1,089 million by 1987. Given that the private
industrial investment in the medium- and large-scale industries is expected
to grow at 28% p.a. in real terms, PICIC's share of industrial financing will
continue to fall. PICIC's management is aware of this but has opted for a
prudent strategy of slower growth to ensure a high quality portfolio while
maintaining an adequate return on capital. Based on the projected level of
commitments for 1983-85, PICIC needs about US$125 million in additional
foreign exchange resources which it expects to receive from ADB (US$40
million), the Bank Group (US$20-30 million) and bilateral sources (US$30
million). Based on present financial conditions, PICIC's projected results
indicate that its financial position should improve with an increase on its
return on equity from 10% in 1983 to 13% in 1987, and maintenance of DSCR and
debt/equity ratios of 1.1 and 7:1, respectively.
66.     The Participating NCBs.  All five NCBs have term lending operations.
However, the bulk of term lending to industry is done by the HBL and UBL.
HBL, with a long history of industrial financing, is the better equipped of
the two. Its Corporate Credit Division is well staffed to prepare term loan
proposals for financing and consortia lending; HBL already has taken a number
of steps satisfactory to the Bank Group to expand and train suitable staff to
expand its industrial project appraisal capabilities. Thus, HBL would be
able to participate in the project as soon as its subsidiary loan agreement
becomes effective (paragraph 55). While UBL also has experience in term
lending to industry, it would nevertheless need to employ and train addi-
tional staff capable of carrying out project appraisals to Bank Group



-22-
standards. UBL would, therefore, initially receive technical assistance
under the proposed project to address these weaknesses and would eventually
participate in the industrial credit component when it has built up a satis-
factory project appraisal capability and has met the eligibility criteria for
access to the pool of unallocated funds.
67.     As a condition for access to the pool of unallocated funds, HBL and
UBL would be required to establish suitably staffed project appraisal sec-
tions for industrial term lending operations within their Head Office
Corporate Finance Department. Initially, each section would have at least
three officers (financial analyst, economist and engineer) with qualifica-
tions and experience acceptable to the Bank Group. In addition to its
Corporate Credit Division, HBL already has established a project appraisal
section and appointed nine qualified officers. The participating NCBs would
also be required to continue training staff in project a)praisal with finance
for external training provided under the technical assistance component of
the project. The PBC, which already has taken measures to upgrade the
capabilities of the NCBs, would be responsible for coordinating training
programs. HBL has prepared a Strategy and Policy Statement, satisfactory to
the Bank, outlining its credit policies regarding term lending especially
related to the proposed project operations.
Credit and Administrative Arrangements
6:3.    Amount and Allocation of Funds.  The proposed IBRD loan of US$50
million (including a capitalized front-end fee) and IDA credit of US$50
million equivalent (SDR 47.3 million) would finance about 6.0% of the
proposed total fixed private industrial investment in medium- and large-scale
industries during FY84-FY86, provide US$2 million for technical assistance
for the PFIs, and meet about 18% of foreign exchange requirements. The
necessary local currency finance would be provided by the sponsors who would
be required to provide a minimum of 40% of the equity, and PFIs. Based on
the existing pipeline of projects and size criteria of eligible subloans,
it is expected that about 40-50 projects would be financed under the proposed
project. In most cases, IDBP and PICIC would combine their term loans with
those of the NCBs, while HBL and UBL would blend their resources with Bank
Group funds. The loan/credit funds are expected to be fully committed within
24-30 months of Board approval.
69.     In the initial allocation of project funds, PICIC, IDBP and NDFC
would each be allocated US$15 million, with US$53 million placed in a pool of
unallocated funds (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). HBL would have immediate access to the unallocated pool provided it
meets its eligibility criteria. Initial allocation of funds would ensure
adequate access by the PFIs to foreign exchange resources during the initial
period of the proposed project. Each DFI would be given six months from the
time of the Loan/Credit signing to fulfill participation conditions, and 12
months from the time of Loan/Credit effectiveness to utilize its initial
allocation of US$15 million (Schedule I, paragraph 2 of the draft Development



-23-
Credit Agreement). After 12 months, any unutilized portion of their initial
allocations would be transferred to the pool of funds (Schedule 1, paragraph
3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). PFIs which do not meet
eligibility criteria or fail to make satisfactory progress in implementing
agreed action programs would be excluded from access to the pool of funds.
Progress by UBL in meeting staffing, training and other criteria would be
reviewed when the unutilized funds from the initial allocation are trans-
ferred to the unallocated pool of funds. This would take place after the
first year of the project, giving UBL time to meet its eligibility criteria
(Schedule 2, paragraph (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
70.     Onlending Rates and Spread.  As GOP is reluctant, for fiscal reasons,
to introduce a uniform tax treatment for IDBP, NDFC and PICIC, a differential
spread would be utilized to equalize the impact of the present taxation
structure.  GOP has agreed to a onlending rate to borrowers of 14% p.a.
including a spread of 4% for PICIC and IDBP and a spread of 3% for NDFC and
the NCBs.  In line with its policy, GOP would bear the foreign exchange and
interest rate risk (Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The US$2 million of the credit for technical assistance would be treated as
development expenditures and made available to the PFIs on a non-reimbursable
basis.
71.     The present official local currency term lending rate of 11% p.a.
reflects the cost of capital in Pakistan and is positive; the net lending
rate of 14% p.a for foreign currency term loans is also positive with infla-
tion as measured by the CPI being about 7% and projected to remain well below
10% over the next few years. Although the present rate levels are reasonable
in relation to present levels of inflation, GOP has undertaken to make the
necessary adjustments to ensure that the onlending rate under the proposed
project remains positive (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
72.     Free Limits and Subproject Reviews.  To ensure satisfactory appraisal
standards and minimize the risk of premature approval of subloans by the
PFIs, the Bank Group would review all sub-projects (Section 3.02(iii) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The minimum and maximum size of
eligible subloans are set at US$1.0 million and US$4.0 million, respectively,
with exceptions on a case by case basis (Section 3.02(vi) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). On this basis, it is expected that 40-50
projects would be financed under the project. Project appraisals would be
prepared in a form satisfactory to the Bank Group covering the financial,
technical and economic viability of the subproject (Section 3.02(vii) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
73.     Beneficiaries.  The proposed project is primarily aimed at financing
private sector projects. However, there is a demonstrated need for financing
expansion and balancing, modernization and rehabilitation projects of exist-
ing public sector enterprises, it was agreed that up to US$10 million, of
NDFC's initial allocation, could be used for these purposes (Schedule 3,
paragraph E of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



-24-
'74.    Amortization Schedule.  GOP would onlend the funds to DFIs for a
period of 15 years, including a grace period of three years. The NCBs,
however, would repay GOP on the basis of an actual composite amortization
schedule of subloans (Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Onlending on a fixed amortization schedule of 15 years would provide the DFIs
a rollover of funds which would augment their local currency resources and
enable them to provide working capital finance to their clients. PFIs would
onlend the funds to industrial projects based on the cash flow requirements.
However, the maximum maturity would normally be limited to 10 years including
the grace period.
75.     Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  The five proposed PFIs have
sound procurement procedures which require evaluation of procurement on the
basis of at least three bids submitted under Limited International Tendering
(LIT), and LIT would be required for individual contracts above US$2.0
million. In these cases, the PFIs would require project sponsors to contact
embassies and trade representatives of Bank Group member countries and
Switzerland represented in Pakistan; however, they would not be required to
advertise in international publications. For smaller contracts, the PFIs
would employ their existing procurement procedures which provide for competi-
tive quotations from at least three established sources and conform to the
Bank-s guidelines. The PFIs would maintain records in a format satisfactory
to the Bank Group that could be monitored through regular supervision
activities.
76.     Disbursements are projected to be completed in three years.  The
proceeds of the Loan and Credit would be disbursed at the rate of 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of goods and services of eligible subloans and 60%
of local expenditures for the costs of imported equipment bought off the
shelf, corresponding to the estimated foreign exchange content of these
items. As in the case of prior Bank Group loans and credits to DFIs, full
documentation of expenditures would be submitted to the Bank Group. For the
technical assistance component, the credit proceeds would be disbursed at the
rate of 100% for consultants' services and overseas training.
'77.    Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  PFIs would be required to submit
quarterly progress reports in a form acceptable to the Bank Group covering
their operations under the proposed project. Financial statements would be
submitted annually by the NCBs and the DFIs. These would be required to
conform with the Bank's standard reporting requirements with submission of
audited financial statements within six months after the end of each fiscal
year.
Project Benefits and Risks
'78.    Benefits.  Besides directly assisting to fill the gap in term financ-
ing available for private investment in the industrial sector, the major
'benefit arising from the proposed project would be on the long-term evolution



-25-
of the credit delivery system. In the short term, the proposed project would
(i) continue support for the process of industrial and financial sector
reforms; (ii) reorient the Bank Group's involvement from focussing on single
institutions to a broader focus on the system of industrial finance; and
(iii) expand the Bank Group institution building assistance to cover, not
only the institutions financed in the past, but also other institutions in
the financial sector including the commercial banks.
79.     The proposed project is expected to have a positive impact on
resource generation and help GOP's efforts to stimulate an inflow of external
resources. It is estimated that the Bank Group funding would generate addi-
tional resources of about US$200 million.
80.     The proposed project would directly finance about 40-50 projects
involving a total investment cost of around US$250 million. Based on past
experience, the subprojects to be financed are expected to be relatively
labor intensive, efficient in terms of resource utilization, and to have
economic and financial rates of return of at least 15%.
81.      Risks.  While the DFIs have had many years of project appraisal
experience, the NCBs have only recently embarked on term lending operations
based on project viability as distinct from collateral support. Thus, there
is a risk that the NCBs will be slower than expected in moving from col-
lateral to appraisal based lending, limiting their participation in the
proposed project. The relatively rapid establishment of effective term
lending policies and procedures, however, and the technical assistance to
improve appraisal capabilities within the NCBs should offset this risk.
82.      A further risk of the proposed project is that an adequate number of
eligible subprojects might not materialize due to political uncertainties,
controls inhibiting industrial development and the pace of economic growth.
However, GOP has recently taken a number of steps to liberalize industrial
policy and the pipelines of the PFIs indicate credit demand well in excess of
the amount proposed for the project. It is probable that full commitment of
the proposed loan could be achieved in less than three years.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.      The draft Loan and Credit Agreements between the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan and the Bank and the Association, respectively, and the report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOP and at least one PFI would be an addi-
tional condition of effectiveness. Other special conditions of the project
are listed in Schedule III of Annex III.



-26-
84.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 3, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 1
T A B L E  3A
PAKISTAN                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
/b_         lb  RECENT  /b          LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
19601-b     1970- ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (TBOUSAND SQ. KI)
TOTAL                                803.9       803.9       803.9
AGRICULTURAL                         228.8       243.3       253.2
GNP PER CAPITA (0S$)                     70.0       140.0       350.0               276.7                     1028.6
BLERY CONSUPrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       143.0       209.0       224.0               398.4                      792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIST7CS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   45851.0      60449.0     84501.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         22.1        24.9        28.7                21.5                       32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                             148.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                               410.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                              2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         57.0        75.2       102.1               161.7                      260.7
PER SQ. 1M. AGRI. LAND            200.4        248.4       324.1               363.1                     1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                           43.8        46.3        46.3                36.6                       39.4
15-64 YRS                           51.8        50.5        50.9                59.2                       57.2
65 AND ABOVE                        4.4          3.2         2.8                 4.2                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.3         2.8         3.0                 1.9                        2.3
URBAN                                4.6         4.0         4.3                 4.0                        3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          51.3        47.4        45.5                29.3                       31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          24.3        19.9        15.8                10.9                        9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.7         3.5         3.1                 2.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..      1908.1      1244.0
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..          ..         6.0                48.1                       46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
! D EX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
69-71-100)                        89.0        102.0       106.0               111.4                      125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)       88.0         97.0       106.0                98.1                      114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           58.0         60.0        65.0                56.7                      57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          23.0        20.0        20.0/c              13.9                       14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          25.4         21.5        17.3                12.2                        7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         43.3        46.2        50.2                59.6                       60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       161.5        143.0       123.2                96.6                      68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 ..        21.0        29.0/d              32.9                       37.1
URBAN                                 *-        77.0        60.0o7              70.8                       54.8
RURAL                                ..          4.0        17.0/d              22.2                       26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         3.0         6.0/e              18.1                       41.4
URBAN                                 ..        12.0        21.0o7              72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                ..           ..           ..                4.7                       33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5400.0       4300.0/f    3480.0/f            3506.0                     7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           16960.0      10580.07    5820.07o            4797.9                    2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1790.0      1860.0      1900.0/c            1100.6                     1047.2
URBAN                              510.0       650.0       710.07W             298.4                     651.1
RURAL                           22850.0      12480.0     11860.07o            5941.6                    2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..          ..                  ..                       27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4         5.3
URBAN                                5.6         5.5
RURAL                                5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                3.1         2. 8/
URBAN                                3.1         2.7 it
RURAL                                3.1         2. 8j
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         17.9/g
URBAN                                ..         54.4/.
RURAL                                ..          4.9/B.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _ _  _   _ _   _  - - - --_-_ _-_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_-_ - -_-_ _ -_-_ _ -_ _ -_ -_ - -_ - -_ _ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ -_ -



-28-
ANNEX I
Page 2
T A B L E 3A
PAKISTAN                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
bb  RECENT  ,b          LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1 960/D 197-  ESTIMATE-                ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    30.0         40.0         57.0                96.1                      101.2
MALE                     46.0        57.0         81.0               107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                   13.0        22.0         30.0                82.9                       97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    11.0         13.0        15.0                30.2                        44.9
MALE                     18.0        20.0         22.0                37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                    3.0          5.0         8.0                22.2                       44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             1.0         1.5          1.3/h               2.3                       18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         41.0        45.0                 34.4                       32.7
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0         17.0                18.4                       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (E)                15.4        20.7/i       24.0                53.5                       72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.5         2.6          4.5/c               1.6                        9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           6.0         17.1         67.0                96.8                      113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..         1.6          9.7                 9.9                       50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              13.2           ..         13.7                16.4                       54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        1.7          3.0/i        2.2                 3.6                        3.4
LAbOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          14448.0      17364.0     23375.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3        10.3                 33.3                       33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0         57.0                69.0                       50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         19.0        20.0                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.5         28.7         27.7                42.5                       38.6
MALE                                55.2         50.4        47.2                 54.4                       50.7
PFEMALE                              5.7          5.5          6.0               29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5         1.7          1.8                 1.0                        1.1
INCOSE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            20.3/,       17.8           ..                16.5                       22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           45.37j       41.8           ..               43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.4/j        8.0           ..                 6.9                        6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            17.573       20.2          ..                 17.5                       15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         68.0/i     176.0               133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                 ..         47.071     122.0               111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..        34.0/i      88.0                  ..                       178.0
RURAL                                 ..         2 2. 07T    58.0                  ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..        42.0/i      32.0                43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                 ..         43.0717     29.0                51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populationrweighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, -Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973; /h 1978; /i 1972; /L  1964.
May 1983



-29-
ANNEX I:
Page 3
DEFIfNITIOfNt OF SOCIAL INDIbCATORS
Nate.:  Altttugh the date are dract-           orr  genraly  jdge      anall l   atoirtn    n   elal.i hud..  be note  that theKy cay no  be -1 tnentaoaIlty
1cpral  becuen  sh   ak  faadardlead def 'iettos   enI nopt  usd by different enctis  In co~lletlolg uha date.  Th. data are, nn...shelasc, casfo  to
decoribs ordere1 ofeaeloe  indonernds, cud   a                          -ttrta  e ieo  e.Jor diffre-oe  batoet  natre
Therafrena goop  ar  (1) shss  cunr  grosy of the nabhIec  -oconryland 10) . coantry ar00p  ith s-esbt higher  -orsag   II_aa  than the o_afey gr..ap Of tbr
solotcnay(rcp   fo  'gighonne  Oil rEyrear" S-pc eher  niddeIIocee north Aftia and siddle  -ct"  s chosen becaus  of stroger  --oi-ItonI
afinieea..     in the1 refernc  grop dete the    . acrgee are pouato   oihted aigh"st  Iet   o.rt.oactrsd  he   sy ahe  maJority uf the  ssrisI 
greop hen data for that idIndlano, ilso' abs cunarage of c--i.e  esogo 9                   ich or  dpeds on the nilbtl    of date asd Is Ill usif.-, taticsmstb
etsrclsednrelesin   aceroge     fcendica tr sanoher Thes-naagecr  Inly .sefu  Inc-prling  lhcc-1oecfot  itdi-atc-n    nimea-oghbe..ustryaod
5E0 (thousand a.bo-.)Poatu    sphuca  - ycyletio  dilgded by nohe  of prsiee
TIa       f otlcr ccare  ecayapio IlasId area ae d inInod  -a-r; I 960,                       physic 'ian.quatradPrnaadclshola   noriyln
1971 and 1980 data.                                                 Populallos leo goralca~~~~I  Perac- Papalaslot dicided by numbr o f practlicing
Agticulnrl-l     asnlof egriiculur1 area used  -ep-crlpl  orpran-                 l Pla an  Ienat  gradutcaesasin sre,pratalarsed
fo   ros  psurs  acct and kitchen gardens or no lie fa1los; 1960,                                   surinaatiirlc
i970 aid  tt  data.                                                                               "Poplatiud orE H !c ta  ted -  total ushno. and carat - Populatics (ftotl.
urban, asd cocci dIolded bytR1 th Ir rear itane   ashesf hospital beda
GNP5 PEt CAPITA (01)) -GNP per -ol-a rani-ae  at --crec  sarket pricen,                                                                   t.ial  i   ulcan    rnl  geteca.  asd  'p.Iaed hospital and
calEillliii0yssleenrsorn-hod as Acrid nnk Olles (1979-il basin);                                       rshbilIt-iIoncles   nsitl.l 5 er  esnblimbh-ent  pma-tlp  staffed
190   ..P,sd 1981 dae                                                                            y  tlan n  p~hyticin.. ftalahe             -sproding principally tastodia1
EnRGY CONSnPTION IER CAPITA - Al-1        f   -'ce   arenot i-lud                                         R. sura  hospitals, hecen_,  inluIde h.ahsh end
551d1  00llf0osPICPTA-ana  aprrthnup tofcmcia                                                          nedial cnter  eatperattlY staffed byaphala  (btby a msdicai
9r6resry(ca   ndlgit,ptrlu,  aua  ga  and hydra-, nula)slin    ue,odtr   t.)  hiohl offer  r-palln.                                                                    ccsmdto   n
190  190  and 19f0 dat.                                                                              urap    cotastcue-lspicia  gnradoptls.n   oa
POPULATION Ass clout STATISTICS)                                                                         -pcalsdhopslat are  include   cn1ydnder.otal
Ossal  osulacos. Mi-hear 7sh-oonda) -  o  f July  1; 19t0, 1970, and 1981                      odtsuenrhaciltd-Tslcodro   dinoo   ordshre
das.                                                                                           ion   osrsol  filde   hyshenuaer  f bds
Orha                                                                                                    'PitIn  pret  fctl     1ci%o re  n   oa  pplto
esn    outis;11,  91  adllldn.dero N                                                                       Ia  of (loueh1l -iseno  can Illasld)     oa,  ra,en   ua
roculaleas Prodeosloce                                                      -FA  oocbl oeeno  a grou  of , Ifdicdua    .c sar lesn    aser
Pooaini   ea   00-cret  ooaicpojotc   e   aedc   91adneccI   el.a  see   rldgsspo   a   05h   siddi
toalppu -so   byaeadseadrPrscaiysdfr   uytehueodfrsai  ia    upss
cets.    rojctit prasler  foooralIyraeacoplise   iftlrr                                   dtrgnuhri pandune  talse-- toef res  cdublarraeuae
leeseulglfaenecncshrs    nrasoenbcnoysa                                                     n   ennarcolnluba,cruaccp1dcnetc
calmmueIre    o    enI   ieeyacnysai llgcP.)da  Ig,  rpoFry.felIoe  r  cens-esnn    rrAue   n
psar.  Te prcnter  fo  iscahiy aneals  bane threedleceiOUSNocupe   partn.
aP"usisog declIne anO ferlll0atr  n   oIca   foladpn   atyWr.s A                                            1IecFi cil   (pc'nnIdd)os     stl  rc,  n   ua 
plrig   efrmne   ec_nocyI  ceea ae  oso   hee0crO_erunl  ahiii   ih   lcbiopinlss   qatnaa   eretg
coebineluns o  cortaicy atdfecill cy areda for  rojec Ics purcnos .of tota, urba, and craY delllcgsiea pactcdlIr
Inoict.ary      ;  pou ;io-e   saIonary  pouaso   cteIno  ac
tnce  the hint rate Is equal c  t~~he dat  rots, and ala ,th  agety                OcICAT-II         dfS    ttib-d
fe      litlitpnatst  ilylacoc    lon                                                           norscllalealdctlnnuljtnyecelleu
len  taincr  pplaio i-      raceE    -mcyer  enaonocsysicealepuil  ae r"coralIPth'o  acalfcec  ce
P.pltoces  001  erocod                                                                             ecndryace   -toel oi adtsels-Copedascos;  mundr
bouaioc  ll.nar                    cItcaayu_requareed                                                                     e  leae_   four yersofa-roo    priar  dorrrtn
_tol .re;190  ilPO,.en  1980 data,EDCATONl    nal   fI  o1   er   f  g;crepnec    cr                                                                                        r
Pers.  a   gr-ltclled-1Yple   s  bn                                                                                                                "Ill tiulnralIce  gIrtdlyfeclded
ony;191,17 n  1980 data               0,                                                       locatIona dIl.lfY.l. enrllseno% (pecetIffl secodary   - Ocasosl  nsIttin
POcaIco P     Niunre(ocer(-ChOrn  0l  yae.   scIg-Y-(I-                                               ncud0tch Irat .  N-utaa,o c-r  r  raedh                       praeaFped
Pocuacio  Oruch cte  cercuc)    totl -ounul Arach  oteeof  ocaacia-prtecy  nd socedr-  -celedi-ded y-eabernof  eachra  I  theour
Pooclciasnlroethsate(per _set   -uran-esas-noh.  rucio  tfro                                 nu      lirrucyrace         -1 I    ttcen)Lierasadlts(beosd   csl
rop  tincc  for 19l0-ho  19k-TO,hed.  iO-                                                       a I pecnig   f  oa  adulPpluietIonage  15 years an a oner,d
per    196lttn   ll,  (970,  and 1980  data.                                           pOI       ..OP IdO ....._d ).
Crud   qsal hateg(per thosad)-Canuldetsercu-ad  ofefyafasegrCc  (e   hood  uaetn   ranndsge   cascoptee Fci
poplyso;190 1970, i97d  en   lidn.cr   ei(gls   hnrgt  esn;ecoe                                                                                          muacs   ere   n
lease sereducilon sata-An0cage nubr"f,u,Ilalsnsilheri                                            tlts y   ','Ics
PfPrtIlit- rates; usua,llydispa   nsgoedn   n11,17,an                                                 cacasneee    ulcprconn   of populococ  enol  idesus
5081.lil                                                                                             llcsondhcrl-rs  i  corlYa acd inpesaucgirloordo
Ps_alrPlanlte-accefnsI.ao....        (chousadt (-dan....ohtruocpor                                     soe   Onffc  ;dcsorecn                 Ter  aroneuyanlicncs
proecee950V6O,ce1n6ra (per thoudand                                                                                            diuiatdo by -   b-roler    o   rodets
Ineaof--in Pod lrdnen  par6C  19Caia(09-0l-lOO   -"dn  cpe   ayn                                     yu tlmo yu doull   yr;-nor n  nnd.ln uncbl. nr.  i-                  I   oniaa
Antclyn hcnI   .....ondoc--lIea-.        ilh Pr -ttnu ludaoeesdac                          nued(yI    ccsrtilacnr raek
eotfssscdneasrssuc laded).~~-All-  d-traac   pruducrIo - or eac  coutr  I                   nbis dm
hPaled on    1960ona   197cag   prducer1 prIce saIs;  91-i  17,  n"10
data. tR-l  000o1lt0 -R                                                                                                    hI    h   .It;l-
Pehcct  srl  ciifor                   -hrcn  nIf renlgchta     ..ouceI fis.T.. .au  forcel (chlusads(-O utt pcieproa                                                       ldo    re
noporte    I edha- r  in snuck.l~,     --nnupleaolde I  1960sl feed, sefs                           cumlretl; 110,  070fnd  081dsi.
Fccclty P   and helhnsldrn    nirseelospnnc -cp eAhl,                                                   isin   a  prtn-0ro  On.ial labo-'ryfoce  lI             17   ndIoi   sa
net, uploffn pean.ntspiofCeiadfneassosPrTIcic.. a  dose(psrent - nd op al .ti  -ainV and -fsmale-st cpb                                                                          l e
Oeqarneetsfcrallcuanris  esablshe   hr  100pruldafonsiscun  cniliyatearronpaedasatl,   ale  andfemle  ab                        - focec
Pncrt  ceuten so rely fron aetoa  enYulePr    i appyoffndse  oallbo   use
Ch-d (ss   -lOahdt  prtoan(-ana   efapcsosed  teP...tae f.Plnd                                                            ele ts  1-et   Inceolankind) -kacte.              y  lha 
ss   " ur-   plears ycnchildr Int_iSC agoupfnrnsc__i             lulnC  ec- nt-rclett10 pescru  Sposo1   rcn    odcr                                                0preto
ountrI.i-a dat  dace  from  lif  shdei;lol 190ad98  fala-.                                          hounnihulddu,                                                 h    ...  I
ssAlTs                                                              pootofo flours osoopn~~h,y11,Inld...-..                           d'-l  ll-    D
"i!  Spcsnyat-g_:rar)-Icre  n hep                  u  yas  lIIfaneanegTefulcon   nltacaac  ayapogyl   esurao   onn ptole   n
sn  lot;lO),  07  sd  99 data.                                                                 houdgb  inerpete   od  enn97reie  auton
Inftiffrtlip dseloe  lncanl    Anul  eena  f  nfce   uneron                inieed dscuc  Pusen  ccarlealIOn  prABOtR  -uhFOadRurCE
eress  f Sfe  ate  (n  mit o  onulaind   -   i,nhn   ndrrl-tcilnalanul   dInt   plu  sen-lalIyl iu-lc   renureelainno
Number of people (total, urhan   en Iarf  I "hrsnchlecasrofeefodaa.-
acon  uppo  fcclu estrde   aunt, _ce saner   onunren.d......c   ne IePnryInocLn   (S   a   aitl-uhn  e   oe 
unenrlsAmi lnaoesannslanlIn  i   y-rc taeoedhocrhclesapIng,ndtllrleianeryc ucnedt-hlcneltnsnrasy tapa
snItilfci....dII)a   fneetd eeoft'       iraarric   pnuitd d        s.lonbpranalfcneIfheoetr.                                              ohnleelbdrIndff-tarla
unhsearaaaunii   foutaido by eanbd na   lcoals  sot ousnhn10  oes -duihadueee oIt0a  coatf                                               o  lIin  in....h       h_arsa
hos. truo hca I..     nhrarsenl   sl  ta   h  loelr  cadSaa.    aceto  peuIile   ulo  ed  url F=bc9 are    Mlha dlus
sheda  I   rdingr bthe  fasdi1lly  scalerJ    J..g
say  ncioa oc  cdlrr,1n  cu  dlnusa.,~  byn cSD clihnut  foncteIi                                                                                               f fincl   oOSca   on lnleln
hatac enccstn end onser-cater cc caner-borne synnesa on is use of pit                                               coennele deal ynia and Prfja.iluns lepfr.,sn
-rid-et  ndhslplln  lesfe)ler..no.Nap.19'



-30-
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
'OS$ billion    %                 1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP aLt Market Prices             31.68      100.0                      3.5               6.3            5.0
Gross Domestic Investment          5.14       16.2                     -5.5               5.4           11.9
Gross liational Saving             3.70       11.7                     -2.1               8.2            8.0
Current: Account Balance          -1.53       -4.8
Resource Gap                      -3.48      -11.0
OUTPUIT,_ LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added          Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    %    US$ million    %    US$ million    Z
Agriculture                       7,825       29         13.5       51         580        58
Industry                          6,827       26          5.2      20        1,313       131
Services                         12,053       45          7.9      29        1,526       152
Tot:al/Average                 26,705      100        26.6      100        1,004       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                               Central Government
(Rs billion)            Z of GDP                (Rs billion)             % of GDP
1981/82      1981/82   1977/78-1981-82          1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981/82
Current Recepts                    51.2          15.9           15.8                39.0          12.1            12.4
Current Expenditures               44.4          13.8           14.1                34.1          10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit             6.8           2.1            1.7                 4.9           1.5             1.8
Capital Expendtures                27.0           8.4            9.3                21.2           6.6             7.4
External Assistance (net)           6.3           2.0            2.8                 6.3           2.0             2.8
MONEY' JCREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82 b/
Money and Quasi Money                         33.1      41.6     51.7      63.7      76.5     90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            17.5      22.7     29.5      34.3      43.1     48.1      54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)         19.7     23.1      30.1      35.7     42.7      50.6      58.7      70.7
Money and Quasi Money as Z GDP                29.5      31.5     34.6      36.7      39.0     38.3      37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70-100)          211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    358.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                         23.6       8.6     11.3       6.3       6.7      9.3      13.3      11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            21.2      29.4     18.8      16.6      25.6     11.6      12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)         26.3      17.3     30.3      18.6      19.6      18.5     16.0      20.4
la  ,Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional
February 1983



-31-
ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million)                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1981/82)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                  US$ million         X
Exports of Goods, NFS            1,404    1,651    2,107    2,955    3,461         2,966       Raw Cotton                     260.5         11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            2,877    3,297    4,485    5709    6,466          6613        Cotton Yarn                    181.3          8.0
Cotton Cloth                  230.4         10.2
Resource Gap (deficit - -)      -1,473   -1,646   -2,378   -2,754   -3,005        -3,847       Rice                           382.7         17.4
All Other Commodities       1,196.9         52.9
Interest Payments                 -172     -183      -261     -285     -357         -453         Total                     2,261.8         100.0
Workers  Remittances               578    1,166    1,395    1,748    2,097         2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)         15        62      134      151       274         345                EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                       ..        ..       ..
US$ million
Balance on Current Account    -1,052       -601   -1,110   -1,140      -991       -1,530
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed       8,813.9
Direct Foreign Investment           ..        ..       ..       ..        ..          ..       Non-guaranteed Private Debt /e                ..
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                    961      841       813    1,134       956       1,102         Total Outstanding and Disbursed        8,813.9
Amortization                    -175     -122      -235     -310     -516         -492
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 /f
Sub-Total                        786      719       578      824      440          610                                               Percentage
Transactions with IMFTL-            44       41       -14       78       315         358
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed         12.2
Other Items n.e.i. /c               24       163      238      600       527         364       Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (-)           198     -322       308     -362     -291          198         Total                                    12.2
Gross Reserves (year end)/d        372       694      386      748    1,039          841        IBRD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 1981) (US$ million)
IBRD    IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                  1.6       1.7      1.8      1.8       1.8         1.8       Outstanding and Disbursed            310.1   908.8
Undisbursed                          32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Including Undisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                  413      497       539    1,237    1,602        1,683
Petroleum Exports                   27       63        61      178       160         185
Rate of Exchange
Through May 11, 1972    May 11. 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982        January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
USS - Rs 4.7619              US$ - Rs 11.00                  US$ - Rs 9.90                     US$ - Rs 11.46
Rsl - US$0.2100              Rsl    US$0.0909               Rsl - US$0.1010                   Rs - 0.087
/a  Government estimate.
71; Including Trust Fund.
7W  Including net short-term  borrowing and errors and omissions.
7i? Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
7e  Private debt is negligible.
7?  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker's remittances;
not including short-term or IMF changes.
Since January 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not available.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983) /a
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                   Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Ninety-three loans and credits fully disbursed /b    781.4  32.0    936.1/f
620       1976   Seed Project                             --               23.0    5.2
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply              --               26.6    2.2
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)        --               14.0    6.0
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development             --    10.0       -        5.5
678       1977   Third Education                          --               15.0    4.7
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development           --               3.0    1.1
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation           --               70.0   68.2
755        1978   Hazara Forestry                          -                1.7    1.2
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.               --               12.5    6.7
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    -                   60.0   57.7
892        1979   Primary Education                       --               10.0    5.7
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension             -                 9.0    8.4
968       1980   Third WAPDA Power                        --               45.0   24.3
974        1980   Third Highway                            --              50.0   33.3
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Development             --               40.0    9.4
1109/e    1981   Vocational Training                      -                25.0   24.4
1113/e    1981   Small Industries                         --               30.0   26.5
11577-e   1981   Grain Storage                            -                32.0   30.0
1158/e    1981   Agricultural Research                    --               24.0   23.7
11637-e   1981   On-Farm Water Management                 --               41.0   33.5
1186/e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         --               30.0   25.9
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                40.0             -      35.7
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                 --     36.8
2247/c    1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities          10.2            -       10.2
23057w    1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)               10.0             --     10.0
2324/c    1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines         43.0             -      43.0
12397e    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                   40.0   38.3
1243/e    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.          --               14.0   14.0
12567e    1982   Technical Assistance                     --                7.0    6.3
12787     1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 --               50.0   49.8
13487-    1983   Lahore Urban Development                 --               16.0   16.0
13507     1983   Population                               -                18.0   18.0
13557    1983   Coal Engineering                         --                7.0    7.0
13747w    1983   Karachi Water Supply                     --               25.0   25.0
13757-    1983   Fourth Drainage                          --               65.0   65.0
13807     1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    -                    47.8   47.8
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0             -      10.8
Total                                                    871.9  42.0  1,608.9 7
of which has been repaid                               473.1   0.4      34.7
Total now outstanding                                    398.8  41.6  1,787.7
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                        --      --      --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA/d                         398.8  41.6  1,787.7
Total undisbursed                                        146.5   5.5    685.3  837.3
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/c  Not yet effective.
7U  Prior to exchange adjustment.
7e  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The principal
is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the market rate on dates of disbursements.
/f  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAK (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor               Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63     --       0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75     -         0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing              --     0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11      1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.37    0.84      20.21
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92      3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper        5.60    0.63       6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing           2.40    0.37       2.77
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock      Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals      29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     --       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70     -        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing           3.15    0.17       3.32
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.10     --        4.10
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       87.46    1.56     89.02
Total Gross Commitments                   170.41   11.60    182.01
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              125.34    1.02    126.36
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          45.07   10.58     55.65
Undisbursed (including participants)       95.37    0.34     95.71



-34-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
12 months
(b) Agency which has prepared project:
Participating Financial Institutions and GOP
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank/IDA and first Bank/IDA
mission to consider project:
August 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
March 1, 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
December 2, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
May 31, 1984
Section II:   Special Bank and IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) For each PFI, adoption by its Board of a Statement of
Strategy and Operating Policies satisfactory to the Bank,
initiation of a training program for their project
appraisal staff and execution of a subsidiary loan agree-



-35-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
ment with GOP would be a condition of eligibility to
participate in the proposed project paragraph 55).
(b) The following conditions would govern the PFIs' access to
the pool of unallocated funds:
(i) for the DFIs, maintenance of a debt/equity ratio and
debt service coverage ratio acceptable to the Bank
(paragraph 55); and
(ii) for the NCBs, establishment of appropriately staffed
project sections and initiation of a training program
for project appraisal staff, acceptable to the Bank
(paragraph 67).
(c) If a DFI has not fulfilled the conditions for access to
the initial allocation of funds within six months of the
signing of the Loan and Credit, the allocation may be
transferred to the unallocated pool of funds (paragraph
69).
(d) If a DFI has not fully committed its initial allocation of
funds within one year of the Loan and Credit becoming
effective, its allocation may be transferred to the unal-
located poor of funds (paragraph 69).
(e) The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOP
and at least one PFI would be an additional condition of
effectiveness (paragraph 55).






IBRD 16248R
64n                                68. 72                                       S  . S.              MAY 1983
PAKISTAN
-    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                        .71
    CITIES AND TOWNS                                          @/               'hdtiS
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
+    AIRPORTS                                                                             aLoa\ tOne oO/ |
-   -   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                     N    -her     1
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES   (            P e 'PeaAMABAo
- = RIVERS                                                                    I s  r w l ndl
32' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n~dn32'
)       ~~~~A FGHANI STAN                                                              A B
.7.
-28'               (                           .                ,                                '28'
SLAMICj                                                                            -E
REPUBLIC  OF  0i|-c l
Dhejl,
I RAN          .                                                                          0 /   Knno  t    130  200  300  400
N.a  B                                    ,n\((n\ KL ETERS
N-old8                                a and shah  thMILES
iTh  V o.   Bank',   ann a1e
I        ,.,l/>ltd d       *n e,natnn, FnnnoIe    CO,nnaft   .nn
-24                                        X  J    i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' K   an  ,.onnn  Ba the BOB'r h r nfankanat
' //'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anrnornen nn accer tnncn of
64                                601    '72                                 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Il- I,                                                    J



