Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16510
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
FORMER SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3187 YU)
April 18, 1997
Country Operations
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
ExchangeUS$1.00            I11.8 Din (1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE FORMER SOCIALIST FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
PCN    -  Project Completion Note
SFRY - Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Note prepared by Roumeen Islam and Juan Carlos Ginarte (EC2CO)
and reviewed by llham Zurayk, Principal Operations Officer
(EC2CO), Luca Barbone, Lead Economist (EC2DR), and Hans
Apitz, Acting Director (EC2).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3187-YU)
1.    This Project Completion Note is in lieu of an Implementation Completion Report
for the Second Structural Adjustment Loan to the former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (SFRY), for which a loan (3187-YU) in the amount of US$400 million
equivalent was approved on April 12, 1990 and made effective on July 25, 1990. Of the
first tranche of US$150,000,000, released upon effectiveness, US$149,352,448 was
disbursed by February 19, 1991.  The second tranche was not released and the loan
closed on September 30, 1991, six months after the original closing date. At that time the
remaining balance of US$250,647,552 was canceled.
2.    At the time this operation was prepared and implemented, the SFRY was a
Federation of six republics and two autonomous provinces, with a population of over 23
million and a per capita income of US$2,450 in 1988. The SFRY underwent a period of
crisis in 1991 and ceased to exist in 1992. After the breakup of the SFRY, the entire
balance of the first tranche was allocated to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY)
and is fully outstanding. Currently, the FRY (consisting of two of the six former
republics, Serbia and Montenegro) has a population of around 11 million and an
estimated per capita GDP of around US$1,600.
3.    The FRY was subjected to international sanctions for more than four years and is
currently not a member of the Bank. Under the circumstances, no comments have been
requested from the borrower and it was not possible to field a completion mission for this
operation. This Note is based on material in the project file.
A. Background and Objectives
4.   In the 1970s, Yugoslavia engaged in domestic demand-driven growth in which
investment and consumption grew rapidly in an environment characterized by lack of
financial discipline and hard budget constraints and "social ownership" of enterprises.
The results were high current account deficits which, as in the case of many other
developing countries, were financed through external borrowing and led to a heavy debt
burden and diminished access to international capital markets in the 1980s. Ultimately,
this forced the Government to adopt stabilization policies to reduce domestic demand and
the current account deficits and structural reforms to establish a more efficient pattern of
growth. Together with a series of IMF Standby arrangements from 1980-85, these efforts
were supported by the first Structural Adjustment Loan (No. 2326-YU - SAL I) to the
former SFRY in 1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



2
5.    At that time, structural reforms were based on the recommendations of the
Government's Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization (LTPES) and were
supported by SAL I in the following areas, with an emphasis on the energy and
agriculture sectors: (i) interest rates, investment planning and allocation; (ii) foreign
exchange allocation and external trade policies; and (iii) price policies and enterprise
decision-making. Implementation of the policy commitments under this operation were
initiated in 1983 but later faltered. Inflation become an increasingly serious problem and
during 1986 the policy stance relaxed so much that the aims of this operation were
undone. By mid-1987, the country, in many respects, was back to where it had started in
its efforts to reform and stabilize the economy. However, important principles were
established (e.g., the importance of moving interest rates towards positive real levels;
adjusting administered prices towards appropriate levels; maintaining an appropriate
exchange rate; and increasing enterprise accountability). Less progress was made in
reforming the system of foreign trade allocation and the trade regime.
6.    SAL II was prepared to support the Government's efforts as it adopted a
substantial adjustment program in May 1988 with the aim of reducing inflation,
improving external creditworthiness and achieving sustained growth. SAL II included
measures to correct relative price distortions, improve resource mobility in the economy
and promote efficiency. Measures implemented by the time of approval of SAL II
included: setting real interest rates at positive levels; establishing a daily interbank market
for foreign exchange; and liberalizing the foreign trade and domestic pricing regimes.
Other reforms, embarked upon at the time of SAL II but requiring a longer
implementation period, included tightening financial discipline in the enterprise and
banking sectors; improving the process of selection of investment projects; supporting the
expansion of private sector and small- and medium-scale enterprises and rehabilitation of
viable enterprises facing financial difficulties while weeding out chronic loss makers;
strengthening the central banking function of the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY),
while establishing banks as independent shareholding entities; and mitigating the social
and productive disruptions which can accompany structural adjustment of the economy.
7.    Specifically, SAL II aimed to support: (i) the continued liberalization of the
foreign exchange, trade and domestic pricing regimes; (ii) the continuation of the existing
real interest rate and real exchange rate policies; (iii) the strengthening of financial
discipline and accountability at the level of the banks and enterprises to ensure that
economic agents were responsive to market signals; and (iv) the initiation of a process of
enterprise and banking sector reforms to improve financial discipline and promote a
competitive environment. In the area of liberalization, SAL II supported the Law on
Foreign Exchange Operations, which extended access to foreign exchange to all private
and small enterprises at the same time that more products were to be made quota-free, the
prices of at least 75 percent of the goods and services covered by the Industrial Producer
Price Index were to be liberalized, and the fixed exchange rate system was to be
maintained under an IMF Standby program. The loan also required the liberalization of
nominal interest rates for a broad range of dinar-denominated deposits and loans.



3
8.    The banking and enterprise sector reforms supported by SAL II were based on the
establishment and effective application of a number of key laws and legal amendments.
In 1989 the new Law on Accounting was passed to improve the country's accounting and
auditing practices and capabilities while the new Law on Financial Operation provided
sanctions against bank and enterprise illiquidity and more clearly defined the triggering of
the amended Law on Bank Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy. Together, these measures
were to eliminate the existence of operating deficits in the enterprises, which were
ultimately financed by monetary expansion, and generally force banks and enterprises to
operate on sound financial and economic principles. There were also a number of new
legal initiatives designed to increase the supply response of the economy. In particular,
there were the Enterprise Law, Law on Social Capital, and the Law on Foreign
Investment. These measures permitted the establishment of private and mixed-ownership
enterprises, allowed managers to maximize profits, ensured equal treatment for all
enterprises, and allowed foreign investment in most areas of the economy in either joint
or wholly foreign-owned firms.
9.   In order to facilitate the effectiveness of and support for the economic
restructuring, the former SFRY was required under the terms of SAL II to implement a
program to ameliorate the social costs of adjustment. In the medium-term, economic
adjustment was expected to restore sustainable growth in GDP and the standard of living
while increasing exports and re-establishing the country's international creditworthiness.
The adjustment program would have created conditions in the former SFRY which would
have allowed its economy to respond flexibly and efficiently to external shocks.
However, the resulting competitive pressures from which the country had been insulated
were expected to produce considerable short-term loss of employment and real income.
Therefore, to limit unemployment and provide temporary relief, SAL II provided
financing for worker retraining programs, assistance in obtaining new employment, and
the provision of unemployment insurance.
B. Economic and Political Situation
10.   At the time of SAL II preparation and approval, the overall economic and political
climate of the country seemed ripe for adjustment. Annual inflation had been rising
steadily during the period 1987 to 1989 from about 90 percent to over 2000 percent due
to the country's inability to control monetary aggregates. By December 1989, the
monthly inflation rate had reached 58 percent.  The current account balance was
maintained in surplus during this period, but foreign reserves were low and in 1987 the
SFRY was forced to postpone principal repayments on its foreign commercial debt until
the following year. Wages and personal income grew quickly, leading to high levels of
consumption, declining savings and investment, and negative growth during this period.
11.   Furthermore, there appeared to be strong political support for structural reforms at
the Federal level. The administration of Prime Minister Ante Markovic had been
established in March 1989 as a result of the perceived failure of the economic program
introduced by the previous administration in 1988. While this older program had led to



4
improvements in the balance of payments and the country's reserve position, it had failed
in the short-term to control inflation and raise industrial and agricultural production.
From the beginning the new administration was also confronted with the difficult choice
of either first undertaking political reforms designed to increase political cohesiveness in
the country or to initially carry out the stabilization and economic restructuring programs.
In the end, however, the Government immediately proceeded to increase its authority
over economic policy-making and implementation and deepened reforms in the areas of
enterprise, banking, and labor and goods markets in order to stimulate the economy's
supply response. Priority was given to the economic reforms because the resulting gains
were expected to produce greater confidence in the economy and ultimately build up
substantial political consensus.
12.   The reforms seemed to have worked early on in 1990, as inflation dropped to
about 5 percent in February and was expected to continue falling in the near term.
Furthermore, there were indications that the stabilization program was restoring
confidence in the country's currency and, more generally, in the economy and the new
economic policies. Thus, in early 1990, the macroeconomic performance of the country
was improving, and there were strong indications that the SFRY was committed to a
sustainable economic restructuring program.
C. Program Preparation
13.   The preparation of SAL II lasted three years, significantly longer than expected
because the Bank needed reasonable assurance of SFRY's commitment to adjustment.
Specifically, finalization of SAL II negotiations awaited the signing of an SDR 460
million IMF Standby Arrangement in March 1990 supporting a strong "disinflation"
program which was initiated by the Markovic Government in December 1989. Together,
this plan and the SAL II program were expected to substantially reduce inflation and to
improve growth performance in the medium term.
14.   The stabilization plan comprised measures in the areas of monetary, fiscal and
incomes policies, financial discipline applied to banks and enterprises, and trade and
foreign exchange policies. These measures included the Central Bank Law, which
abolished automatic access of the Federal Government to NBY credit, removed all legal
impediments to NBY using monetary instruments, and eliminated rediscounts on
selective credits (with subsidies for this purpose to be financed by fiscal revenues). There
were also a number of important new fiscal elements introduced in order to unburden
monetary policy with inflationary means of deficit financing. Taxes and other non-
inflationary means of financing were to replace bank credit. There was to be integration
of all extra-budgetary special accounts at all levels of government into their respective
budgets, the incorporation of NBY quasi-fiscal deficits in the Federal budget, and
legislation to prohibit public sector agencies from borrowing domestically for the
duration of the program.



5
15.   Despite these legislative initiatives, there was an additional delay in completing
SAL II negotiations due to some initial doubt on the part of the IMF (and the Bank) that
the Republic and Provincial Assemblies (RAPs) would fully support the stabilization plan
prepared by the Federal government. In particular, it was believed that the RAPs would
allow some unplanned wage increases and would not adopt revenue increasing measures
needed to finance enterprise deficits. In the end, these concerns were thought to be
unfounded and the IMF Board approved a slightly modified arrangement on March 16,
1990. The Bank approved the loan on April 12, and the loan became effective on July
25.
D. Cancellation of the Loan
16.  In the third quarter of 1990, however, there were clearly problems with the
implementation of key second tranche release conditions and the political situation of the
country was deteriorating. The Bank SAL II supervision mission held in October 1990
found that the SFRY reports on the national investment programs for energy and railways
had not been prepared, audits of bank portfolios had not been submitted, reforms in the
enterprise sector were incomplete, and the macroeconomic conditionality was not
satisfied. At that point internal and external conditions had changed so much that Bank
economists felt the Government had to design and implement a new macroeconomic
program.
17.   On the political side, Republic elections in the Summer of 1990 resulted in new
leadership which threatened the implementation of reforms and the integration of the
country. In December 1990, Slovenia held a referendum and voted for independence,
while secessionist sentiment increased in other Republics.  In February 1991 a
Government delegation visited the Bank to secure a quick release of the SAL II second
tranche. The delegation felt that the second tranche would be seen as a concrete signal of
Bank endorsement of its new Economic Reform Program, which included an 11-point
stabilization plan. The opposite would be true if the second tranche were not released
and, in their view, this could mean the collapse of domestic and international support for
the Program, which would decrease the chances of maintaining political integration
within the countrv. While both the Bank and the IMF found the broad features of the re-
stabilization plan to be appropriate, there was considerable doubt about the ability of the
Government to get the Republics to implement the new measures, particularly since
Slovenia had already announced its disassociation from the applicability of Federal
regulations.
18.  In March 1991 a Bank team visited the SFRY and found that some progress had
been made with regard to the structural reforms but the macroeconomic situation was
worsening and the country was still lacking an effective stabilization program. At the
Government's request, the original release date of March 31,1991 was extended six
months in order to have sufficient time to complete its actions with respect to these
conditions. The Government was unable to satisfy all of the conditions and, as a result,
the second tranche was canceled and the loan closed on September 30.



6
19.   When the loan closed, the country had met or substantially met SAL II conditions
in the areas of price liberalization, trade liberalization, social costs of adjustment,
application of uniform investment methodology, foreign exchange allocation, financial
discipline, and banking system and enterprise reform. Yugoslavia had partially met the
conditions for pricing of power and railway services and review of the national
investment program in the highways subsector. However, it did not comply with its
obligations in connection with the review of the investment programs in the energy and
railways subsectors, and, most significantly, could not satisfy the stabilization
conditionality.
20.   The stabilization plan faltered due to premature relaxation of monetary policy (as
in late 1990 the national banks of Serbia, Croatia. and Vojvodina extended unauthorized
credits), an increase in traditional budgetary expenditures, and a substantial increase in
wage payments by enterprises because the RAPs were unwilling to control public
spending and abide by the agreed wage payment restrictions. As a consequence, inflation
accelerated, after substantially declining in the first half of the year, personal
consumption increased sharply, the balance of payments deteriorated, and GSP declined
by 7.5 percent in the last quarter compared to the previous year.
21.   The political crisis of the country steadily intensified in 1991, as the question of
secession dominated inter-Republic politics and hostilities broke out in the Summer.
Under the circumstances the Federal authorities were unable to resume implementation of
the stabilization policies and complete the structural reforms. They were unable to ensure
that the NBY would act as an autonomous institution in full control of monetary policy.
Nor could the Government reach an agreement with the RAPs on an overall consolidated
(Federal and RAP) budget or a variety of other issues which would form the basis for a
credible new stabilization plan under an increasingly unfavorable internal and external
environment. As a result, the loan was closed and negotiations of a Financial and
Enterprise Structural Adjustment Loan, which was to provide continuing support for
financial and enterprise sector reforms, were also terminated.
E. Lessons learned
22.   The SAL II program contained a comprehensive list of structural measures and
was intended to be implemented along with a strong IMF stabilization program. They
were part of the government's overall medium-term policy reform program and would
reasonably have been expected to be followed at a later stage with further reforms. If
these two programs had been fully implemented and if the political differences had not
resulted in dissolution of the country, together they would have achieved, substantial
reform in the SFRY. In view of the political fragmentation and the civil war that ensued,
the policies embedded in the SAL II program were not fully implemented. Thus, it is not
possible to judge the sustainability of the policies per se.



7
23.   Though the complete dissolution of the country could not have been predicted,
perhaps the riskiness of the loan was underestimated. The Markovic regime, at the time
the loan was approved, realized that political reform was necessary. However, the
prevailing view was that economic reform should be implemented first to enhance social
cohesiveness and set the seeds for subsequent political reform. In this sense perhaps, it
was believed that the economic program of the Federal government, which SAL I1 was
supporting would enhance stability in the country. As it happened, the political situation
in the country unraveled before any of the fundamental economic reforms could take root.






I



IMAGING
Report No.:          16510
Type:      PCN



