Document of             '
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4899-Yl
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LDAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$400 KflLLION
TO
THE NATIONAL BANK OF YUGOSLAVIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
March 21, 1990
t
This document bas a resried distribuiodn and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thir officW doties Its conents may not otbenrise be disclosed witdnt World Bank uthorization



-    *                               
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit; Dirir (Din.1
Currenev Unit        CX19871"      CY1988l       Dec.27. 198-9   Jan.1.;990#
US$1                 Dinar 713.0   Dinar 2522.6  Dinar 1889.7    Dinar 11.8
Dinar 1              US$0.0014     US$0.0003964  US$0.000008      US$0.0847
Dinar 1,000,000      US$1402.5     US$396.42     US$8.41          US$84,757.76
FISCAL 
January 1 - December 31
GLSS   ,. ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM
BOAL       Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COL        Cost of Living Index
DOD        Debt Outstanding and Disbursed
FBP        Federal Bureau of Prices
FEC        Federal Executive Council
GDP        Grc ., Domestic Product
GSP        Gross Social Product
ICC        International Coordinating Committee
ICOR       Incremental Capital Output Ratio
IPPI       Index of Industrial Producer Prices
LTPES      Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization
MLT        Medium- and Long-term
NBY        National Bank of Yugoslavia
NDA        Net Domestic Assets
QR         Quantitative Restriction
RAPs       Republics and Autonomous Provinces
RPI        Retail Price Index
SAP        Special Action Program
SDK        Social Accounting Service (Sluzba Drustvenog Kujigovodstva)
SFRY       Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SMA        Self-Manag e  nt Agreemnt
SHEs       Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
SPCs       Socio-political Ccmmunities
WO         Work Organization
YBA        Yugoslav Bankers' Association
S Period Average.
3 Starting from this date, a new Dinar is in effect which is equal to
10,000 old Dinar.



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
SOCIALIST FEDERAL RELUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
SECOND STRUURAL ADJUSTMENT LDAN (SAL II)
LOAN AN  PROGRAM SUMARY
Borrower:         The National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY).
Guarantogr.e      The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:           US$400 million equivalent.
T-erms:           15 years, including 5 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Objectives and
Descrigtion:,     Yugoslavia's Structural Adjustment Program aims at achieving
sustained and efficient economic growth while reducing
inflation and improving external creditworthiness. The
proposed SAL supports reforms that would correct relative
price distortions, increase competition, improve mobility of
resources and promote efficiency in an environment based on
a competitive market. Measures implemented include:
setting real interest rates at positive levels; establishing
a market for foreign exchange; and liberalizing the foreign
trade and domestic pricing regimes. Other reforms, embarked
upon, but requiring a longer implementation period include
tightening financial discipline in the enterprise and
banking sectors; improving the process of selection of
investment projects; supporting the expansion of private
sector and small- and medium-scale enterprises and
rehabilitation of viable enterprises facing financial
difficulties while weeding out chronic loss makers;
strengthening the central banking function of NBY while
establishing banks as independent, shareholding entities;
and mitigating the social and productive disruptions which
can accompany structural adjustment of the economy.
Benefits:         The principal benefits of the adjustment program include:
reduction in inflationary pressures and a more stable
economic environment for decision-making; progressive
sustained improvement in living standards brought about by
the accelerating growth in output and employment resulting
from improvements in efficiency; continued improvement in
creditworthiness so as to restore access to commercial
borrowing; and most important, the establishment of a more
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ised by ixipients only in the perforfance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discl&cd without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
vibrant and flexible economy that can-better take advantage
of new opportunities in the external environment as well as
withstand adverse external shocks.
The main risk is that the comprehensive program for
stabilization and structural reform may not be implemented
consistently and forcefully enough, due to resistance to the
fundamental changes proposed and political tensions and
conflicts, and because the transitional costs of adjustment.
may be unacceptably high. Should this occur, hyper-
inflation may be reignited and GSP may stagnate or decline.
Mitigating this risk is the fact that the reform measures
that are being adopted after a wide and thorough debate in
the country are conceptually sound and broadly supported,
and the Government has already demonstrated its strong
commitment to the reforms by implementing several major
policies (e.g. stabilization, interest rate, wages, foreign
exchange market, trade and ptice liberalization).
Furthermore, the Government is keenly aware of the need for,
and is currently designing, an effective safety net to
contain the transitional social costs of adjustments.
Estimated
Disbursements:    The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed in two
tranches: US$150 million upon loan effectiveness, and the
rema-i'.ng US$250 million after the completion of a number of
key &.-_ond tranche actions upon which the success of the
program depends. These relate mainly to the continued
implementation of an effective stabilization program; some
further trade and price liberalization; improvement in
financial discipline and investment decision-making;
increasing mobility of resources and flexibility of the
economy for facilitating supply response including progress
in implementation of restructuring programs in the
enterprise and banking sectors; and alleviation of social
costs of adjustment. These measures are detailed in Table
4. Release of the second tranche is expected in the fourth
quarter of CY 1990.



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL II)
ABLE OF -CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION ..............................................................    1
PARP 1: TE   EC   O  NM .......I..  ,.................................... .  1
Structure of Economy ...................................         1
Rising Inflation and Limited Structural
Adjustment During the '80s ......        ....................  2
P.ecognition of the Crisis and the Initiation
of Reforms .............     .............................     3
PART II:   TRE GOVERNMENT S ADJUSTMENT PROGRA.....................             4
The Macroeconomic Program ...............................          5
Demand Management and Control of Inflation ....       ........   5
Medium-term Prospects and Financing Needs ....        .........  7
External Debt and Creditworthiness ....................          8
Program of Adjustment and Economic Reform ....        ...........  9
Monitoring.Economic Performance .......................          9
Liberalization of the Foreign Exchange
Allocation System ....................................    10
Trade Liberalization ..................................    10
Price Liberalization ..................................    11
Interest Rates and Financial Discipline ....        ...........    12
Investment Planning and Allocation ....................    13
Facilitating Supply Response ..........................    14
Economic Impact and Social Costs of
the Adjustment Program ....................                   16
Risks Associated with the Adjustment Program .17
Justification for Bank Support .18
PART III: COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BpANK
GROUP OPERATION.                                                  19
Assistance Strategy .19
Lending .20
Country Economic and Sector Work .21
Bank Loans Outstanding .21
Bank Exposure ...........                                       22
The Bank's Past Experience with Structural
Adjustment in Yugoslavia .............................    22
IFC Operations ............      .............................   23



Page No.
PART IV:  LaO ADMINaSTRATION ......................................    23
Eligible Expenditures                ,                     23
Procurement          ........................    23
Disbursement   ..23
Accounts and AuJits    ..24
Release of Funds and Tranching     ..24
Policy Matrix          ...                     ........  25
Core Condttionality for Second Tranche Release. .          27
Management, Coordination and monitoring ... .............
Cooperation with other Agencies and Major Creditors        28
PART V:   RECOMMENDA I9  ..........................................  - 29
APPENDICES
I   Key Economic Indicators .30
II     Letter of Development Policy ...............................    34
A of LDP Agreed Upon Information on the Interbank Market for
Monthly Transmittal to the IHF arid the IBRD ............... _ ...    46
B of LDP Trade Liberalization Program ...........    47
C of LDP Pricing Policy .48
D of LDP Twenty Largest Loss-Making Enterprises in Yugoslavia, 1988     49
E of LDP Monitoring Investment .53
F of LDP Table 1: Medium Term Macroeconomic Objectives .54
G       Structural Adjustment Loan - Supplementary Project
Data Sheet .57
H       Status of Bank Group Operations In Yugoslavia .58
I    Statement of IFC Investments .59



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF -HE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL II)
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$400 MILLION
TO THE NATIONAL BANK OF YUGOSLAVIA (NBY)
*      W-IH THE GUARANEE OF THE SOCAIT FEDERAL   PUELIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ITODUCTION
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of $400 million to the National Bank of Yugoslavia
(NBY), with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The loan would support the Government's program of stabilization and
structural adjustment, aimed at establishing an effective, efficient, and
stable macroeconomic and institutional environment for sustained economic
growth. The loan would ha-'e a term of 15 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate and would be disbursed in two
tranches, a first tranche for $150 million and the second for $250 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Structure of Economv
1.          The latest Country Economic Memorandum was circulated to the Board
on July 10, 1987. This has been updated at regular intervals by successive
Country Briefs. The latest Country Brief was circulated in December 1989.
The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a Federation of six republics
and two autonomous provinces (RAPs), with a population of 23.4 million and a
per capita income of US$2450 in 1988. Living standards vary widely between
the richer Northern Republics (Slovenia and Croatia) and the poorer Southern
RAPs (especially Kosovo, Macedonia, and Montenegro). Responsibility for
economic decision-making an implementation is divided between the Federal
Government and the RAP authorities. The Federal Government has tightened its
control over foreign borrowing and monetary policy, but has relaxed controls
over prices and external trade; it is also responsible for providing the legal
and administrative foundation of the economic system, including the banking
and enterprise systems and policies for the faster development of the
less-developed regions. Responsibility for taxation is shared between the
Federal and RAP Governments. Sales taxes and custom duties are a Federal
responsibility while the RAPs regulate the other elements of the tax system.
RAP and communal authorities also have the right to set the prices of a few
goods and servi es (e.g., heating and public transport).  Investment decisions
are decentralized and largely the prerogative of the investors, usually worker
managed enterprises. Investment by the Federal, Republican and Municipal
Governments (the public sector) represents a very small proportion of total
investment. Incomes policy is conditioned by Federal and/or RAP guidelines,
-     although the decisions are made by the respective firms.
2.          The Yugoslav economy is divided into social and private sectors.
Although subject to change as reforms progress, assets in the social sector,



2
are presently neither owned nor tradable and are subject to "self-
management" by the firms' workers. In the private sector, self-employed
proprietors work with their own assets and until recently, could employ only a
limited number of other workers. Nearly 90X of Gross Social Product (GSP)"
of Yugoslavia is produced in the social sector; the bulk of private sector
activity is in agriculture and services. Mining and industry accounts for
about 40X of GSP; agriculture, forestry and fishing account for 10X. The
trade and services sector produces almost 441 of GSP.
3.          A new enterprise law, passed at the end of 1988, has significantly
changed microeconomic decision maeding. Before, decision-making at all levels
was governed by the principle of workers' self-management. Social compacts
and self-management agreements were used to agree upon ard regulate the
participation of economic agents in the implementation of economic policies
within a decentralized framework. Now, new forms of enterprises, privately
owned, mixed and joint-foreign, are allowed and treated on an equal footing
with the social sector, and can exercise freedom in decision-making and pursue
the goal of profit maximization. Now much more reliance is placed on
responding to conventional macroeconomic instruments and market incentives.
Rising Inflatio, and Limited Structural Adjustment During the '80s
4.          The strong growth of the Yugoslav economy in the 1970s (GSP grew
at an annual average rate of 61 between 1970 and 1980) was led by a rapid
expansion in domestic demand. During 1970-1980, fixed investment rose at an
average annual rate of 81, while consumption grew by 6X. However,
insufficient attention was paid to efficiency and the need for improving the
quality of investment. Rigidities in the markets for goods and factors of
production, distorted relative prices and excessive protection for domestic
industries resulted in deteriorating productivity of investment and a sharp
rise in the incremental capital output ratio. In addition, excessive wage and
personal income distributions coupled with low, even negative compensation to
capital severely distorted relative factor prices.
5.          The domestic demand-driven growth manifested itself in growing
current account deficits which rose from less than 11 of GSP between 1965-1969
to 61 by 1979. These deficits were financed through external borrowing,
leading ultimately to a heavy debt burden in the 1980s. Medium- and long-term
debt rose rapidly, rising from 16X of GSP in 1970 to 291 in 1980. The burden
of debt service, the recession in OECD countries, and the increasing
reluctance of international creditors to lend to Yugoslavia (following the
debt problems in other countries), forced the Government to attempt to reduce
domestic demand and balance of payments deficits. These efforts were
supported by a series of IMF Standby agreements during the period 1980-1985, a
World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2326-YU) in FY83, and by debt
restructuring agreements with governments and commercial banks. A strong
compression of imports, combined with modest growth of exports, succeeded in
I GSP is equivalent to gross material product, i.e. total value added in
goods, plus those services regarded as productive inputs. Gross domestic
product (CDP) is roughly 7-8Z higher than GSP.



3
Liminating the current account deficits in the balance of payments. By 1983,
small surplus (0.62 of GSP) had been achieved and the current account has
aen in surplus since then. However, this transformation of the external
Alance was achieved at a cost: GSP stagnated between 1980-1985 and domestic
aflation (as measured by the growth of the retail price index (RPI)) rose
rom an average annual rate of 20X in the 1970s to an average of 50X between
980-1985.
In an effort to stimulate growth, economic policy was reversed in
986. Earlier efforts to contain domestic demand and adjust the structure of
he economy were weakened; there was significant relaxation in financial
iscipline, monetary, fiscal and incomes policies. Real wages rose sharply,
ublic sector spending increased markedly in real terms, and monetary policy
ffered little resistance to rising inflationary pressures. In addition,
rice controls were reimposed, real interest rates became more negative, and
he allocation of foreign exchange was even more tightly administered. Though
he consequent increase in domestic demand stimulated GSP growth of 31 in
986, there was an upsurge in inflation (88X) and a worsening in Yugoslavia's
rade deficit and external payments position with the convertible currency
.rea. Significant backsliding in implementation of structural reforms also
iccurred. Efforts were made once again in 1987 to contain domestic demand and
.mprove the current account of the balance of payments. Although exports rose
;ignificantly import volumes were reduced by more than 11. The resulting
-urrent account surplus of US$1 billion was offset by net outflows of more
han US$2.7 billion of short-term capital flows (including errors and
)missions). The consequent depletion in reserves led Yugoslavia to request
foreign commercial banks to accept a postponement of repayments of principal;
is a result, about $347 million of payments falling due in 1987 were carried
)ver into 1988. The domestic economy also fared poorly. GSP declined by 0.52
and inflation accelerated to 1672.
tecognition of the Crisis and the Initiation of Reforms
7.          The extent of the economic crisis was finally acknowledged by the
3overnment in late 1987 by means of the issuance of the first of several
programs aimed at fundamental economic reform. The Government attempted to
strengthen its anti-inflation program by agreeing to another Standby with the
IMF in May 1988. The program sought to reduce excess domestic demand and
inflatlmn. but also laid stress on correcting important structural weaknesses
in the economy. The program failed to reduce inflation primarily because ill-
defined targets for money and credit growth enabled excessive expansion of
these variables and ultimately of aggregate demand. Some progress on
structural reforms was achieved, however. For the first time, real interest
rites were raised to positive levels and the financing of loss-making
enterprises using inter-enterprise credits was reduced. This program formed
the basis for a broader financial assistance package from Yugoslavia's
eXternal creditors. At the same time the Government initiated measures to
strengthen market forces and to improve the efficiency of the economy. The
foreign exchange allocation system was liberalized in May 1988; the Dinar was
devalued in real terms by 19.3Z; and first steps were taken to liberalize the
domestic pricing and the foreign trade regimes.



4
8.          The Government's approach since the introduction of this program
in May 1988 has been to pursue determinedly fundamental reforms on a wider
front in spite of a slow economic response in certain areas. Although the
balance of payments and Yugoslavia's reserve position improved, industrial and
agricultural output declined, and inflation accelerated to over 250X in 1988.
The lack of success led to the resignation of the cabinet in December 1988,
and the establishment of a new administration, under Mr. Markovic in March
1989. The pressure to reform did not abate, however. The new cabinet has
substantially increased its authority over policy formulation and
implementation, and has strengthened the country's reform effort in the
enterprise, banking and labor and goods and markets areas in order to
stimulate the economy's supply response. On December 18, 1989, after lengthy
discussion with the Fund and the Bank, in a setting where inflation was
running at over 50X per month, the Government announced an intensive program
of price stabilization. This program quickly won tie approval of the Federal
and RAP assemblies and is the basis for the new IMF Standby agreement. Early
indications show that the program (described in paras. 12 to 16 below) is
reducing inflation (to 5S for February) and restoring confidence, specifically
in the country's currency, the Dinar, and, more generally, in the economy and
the Government's new approach to economic management.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT' S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
9.          The proposed SAL II would support the Government's comprehensive
efforts to restructure its economy in the medium term within the context of a
strong macroeconomic stabilization program.  The successful implementation of
these reforms should substantially increase the role of market forces and
competitive pressures within the economy while initiating restructuring of the
enterprise and financial sectors so that they are more sensitive to the newly
emergent incentives.
10.         The reforms to be supported by SAL II are already in progress, and
apply to a broad range of problems. Thus, SAL II would support the continued
liberalization of the foreign exchange, trade, and domestic pricing regimes,
and the continwtation of the existing real interest rate and real exchange rate
policies. To ensure that economic agents are responsive to market signals, it
would support the strengthening of financial discipline and accountability at
the level of the banks and enterprises. It will also, importantly, initiate a
process of enterprise and banking sector reforms in the context of the
recently passed constitutional amendments and new laws which will improve
financial discipline and promote a competitive environment, increase the
mobility of resources within Yugoslavia, and create a more flexible and
efficient economic structure that can respond effectively to changing market
conditions. Because of these reforms, decision-making at the firm level
should become more flexible and responsive to market forces. Enterprises will
be able to sell shares and bonds, thus widening their access to investment
funds and their ability to form joint ventures with other Yugoslav as well as
foreign enterprises. Banks are expected to become independent, shareholding,
profit maximizing entities which operate under the supervision of the Central
Bank (NBY) with strengthened monetary and regulatory powers. Greater private



5
.or activity should occur and non-discriminatory policies should increase
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises. A medium-term
-ooconomic program, negotiated under SAL II will be used to monitor the
;ress of the reform and its impact on th3 economy. The adoption of
idard investment criteria by the banks should result in more efficient
,stment decisions and lead to an improved structure of investments in the
ily decentralized investment atmosphere in Yugoslavia.
*                     The Macroeconomic Progran
The challenge for macroeconomic management is to stop inflation
e restoring sustainable growth and international credit-worthiness in the
um- and long-term. Tough monetary and fiscal policies are needed to
atically reduce inflation (paras. 12 to 16) and must be accompanied by the
ralizations and initial moves toward financial and enterprise reforms
orted by SAL II (paras. 33 to 37). In addition, reforms envisaged in the
ncial and fiscal systems and in the large enterprise and SHE sectors, to
upported by additional Bank operations, should improve financial savings,
allocation of credit, and incentives to produce and invest ir. high quality
stments. This should lead to a reattainment of GDP growth, of the order
% per annum in the medium-term. In the short run, distributional "costs"
djustment will be covered by existing but already strengthened programs
supporting the relatively disadvantaged. However, these systems will
selves need adjustment over the longer run because of their potentially
essing impact on incentives. Satisfactory progress in addressing this
a is a second tranche release condition under SAL II.
id Management and Control of Inflation
In late December 1989, the Government began to implement a rapid
inflation program which appears to be working. Major elements of the
ram are a very restrictive monetary policy, an increased fiscal effort to
nce deficits in the large enterprises, tightened financial discipline
ugh stricter enforcement of new accounting and financial operation
dards and a stable nominal exchange rate. Wage distributions and about
of prices are to be frozen temporarily for six months while imports from
convertible currency areas are to increase. The implementation of these
ires should eliminate the current hyper-inflation.
Tight monetary 2olicy will be enforced as a result of the new
:al Bank (NBY) Law which removes all impediments to NBY using monetary
.tWents.  More accurate and realistic definition of monetary aggregates
:argets has been adopted. Rediscounts on selective credits have been
ad out. Subsidies for these purposes will be financed by fiscal revenues
nning with the 1990 budget. NBY no longer accepts as a liability any net
ease of the Dinar value of foreign currency deposits placed with the
ercial banks. The stock of previous deposits has become a Federal
rnment obligation with principal revalued with any devaluations and with a



6
7X interest rate financed through the budget. All legal provisions entitling
the Federal Government to automatic access to NBY credit have been abolished,
and NBY may only approve short-term credits to the Federal Government at the
request of the Federal Executive Council (FEC). The key target for the
monetary management will be a ceiling on the net domestic assets (NDA) of the
NBY, defined to include the revaluation effects of foreign currency deposits
redeposited at the NEY. To achleve its objectives, the NBY is now free to
make active use of monetary instruments at its disposal (interbank money
market, discount rate, reserve requirements). Domestic interest rates for
deposits and lending will be freely set to reflect demand and supply
conditions in the economy.  To support the objectives of rapid disinflation,
the nominal exchange rate has been fixed at new Dinar 7 per German Mark and
maximum limits on claims repayable to Yugoslavia in nonconvertible currencies
have been established. The foreign exchange market has been opened to
individuals so that it is expected that all bona fide demand arising in the
daily interbank market for foreign exchange can be met without jeopardizing
the projected strengthening of the foreign exchange reserves of the banking
system.
14.         A significant new element in the program is the fiscal ROLi
which now aims to unburden monetary policy by financing deficits with
budgetary revenues rather than with bank credit. All -ixtra-budgetary special
accounts at all levels of governments have been integrated into respective
budgets and all quasi-fiscal operations previously carried out by the NBY have
been incorporated into the Federal budget.  Outstanding debt of the public
sector has been consolidated and the legislation passed to prohibit public
sector agencies from borrowing domestically for the duration of the program.
To increase the revenue of the public sector in order to meet the new
obligations from covering NBY losies and subsidies, as well as contributions
to the programs for s_structuring banks and enterprises and for alleviating
social cost of adjustment, revenue enhancing measures, including a new
turnover tax of 3X, increased custom tariff rates, and other measures by the
RAP governments have been adopted.  As a result, new revenues totalling 5% of
GDP, should be available to meet these expenditures, thus unburdening the
financial system.
15.         The objective of LWomes P°i£  in the disinflation program is to
achiev-i a realistic wage level. To this end, the Government has introduced a
law temporarily freezing nominal wages. In the longer run, market forces will
be allowed to determine the level of gross personal income of workers by means
of a system of collective bargaining. Upon the expiration of the wage freeze
in end-June 1990, it is expected that wages will be freely determined in order
to reflect the concept that wages, and capital, are integral parts of the cost
of production. Should such a system not be ready by then, the system of
Social Compact on wage distribution which links wage increases to productivity
and accumulation, as applied during the period of September to December 1989,
will be reinstated.
16.         In the area of improving financial discipline and accountability,
the Government recognizes that the fundamental cause of inflation in
Yugoslavia is the existence for many years of operating deficits in the
enterprises which have ultimately been financed by monetary expansion. Banks



and enterprises will now be forced to operate on more sound financial and
economic principles. Thus, a new Accounting Law prevents distortion of
enterprises' accounts through a proper evaluation of inventory and an adequate
provision for depreciation and non-performing assets. The new Law on
Financial Operations more clearly defines the triggering of the application of
the Law on Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy and also severely limits wage
distributions in loss-making enterprises. In addition, banks will be
reconstituted in the course of 1990 in order that they may be relicensed,
regulated and supervised by the newly empowered NBY.
Medium-term Prosnects and Financing Needs
17.         Over the medium-tem, the growth potential of the economy depends
largely on the ability of the authorities to sustain and deepen the process of
structural adjustment. Adequate support by Yugoslavia's external creditors is
needed if the reform effort is to succeed. Provided Yugoslavia continues to
implement the policies initiated this year under the IMF agreement and SAL II
and continues the reform in the context of other Bank and IMF programs, GDP,
after the expected drop in 1990 following the stabilization programs, could
grow by an average of about 2.5X per year between 1991-1993 and by 3%
thereafter. This would be achieved essentially by ensuring an improvement in
the efficiency of investment. (The ICOR is projected to improve to 8.1 between
1992-1997 primarily as a result of the favorable impact of the program on
worker incentives and productivity - Table 1.) This rate of growth would
allow consumption per capi:a to rise to an average of about 1.6% per year
between 1990-1993, and slightly more rapidly thereafter (Table 1). On the
external side, the volume of merchandise exports to the convertible currency
area is expected to grow by about 51 annually between 1990-1994 and then slow
down to 31 per year. Imports from the convertible currency area are expected
to grow faster in 1990 and 1991 and thereafter grow in parallel to the export
growth. Corresponding to this scenario, Yugoslavia"s debt outstanding and
disbursed (DOD) (including IMF and short-term) will decrease slightly from
US$19.5 billion (341 of GDP) in 1988 to $17.2 billion (26.6% of GDP) in 1992,
but would decline more rapidly thereafter. By 1998, DOD is projected to be
$14.4 billion (16X of GDP). Yugoslavia is currently projected to continue to
run current account surpluses, but adverse terms of trade developments with
GMEA trading partners and success in the reform effort could increase foreign
exchange payments for existing imports and the volume of imports of capital
goods and new technology. Both of these could cause a reversal of the balance
of payments position. Should this occur, Yugoslavia will once again engage in
positive net foreign borrowing which will cause the improvement in these debt
indicators to slow somewhat.



8
ble 1: MEDIUM-TERM MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS
(annual average)
CY  1987    1988    1989    1990    1992   1993-97   1998
provi-
-. actual --    sional   -----     projected -
GDP Growth (X)                  -1.1    -2.0    -0.8    -2.0       2.5     3.0      3.0
GDY/Capita Growth (X)           -1.7    -3.0      1.4    -1.8      2..     2.3      2.5
Consumption Per Capita
Growth (X)                    -2.0    -5.9      2.0    -0.8     1.7      1.4      2.3
Gross Domestic
Savings/GDP (X)               23.6    26.6    24.3    22.1    22.7       22.5    22.6
Gross Fixed Investment/
GDP (%)                       21.2    21.0    20.9    20.3    21.2       21.2    21.2
ICOR                           -42.4   -10.8    14.0      8.8     9.2       8.0     8.1
Exp. Volume Growth (X)          -9.7     8.6      7.2     5.0     5.0       5.0     3.0
Imp. Volume Growth (X)          -8.5     2.4    15.0    12.0      5.0       5.0     3.0
Current Account Balance
(blr. US$)                     1.1     2.2     2.0      1.3     1.0       1.1     1.1
Current Account
Balance/GDP (X)                2.2     5.0     4.5      2.2     2.0       2.1     1.9
Debt Service/Exports (X)        30.0    10.1    14.5    13.6    10.8        8.0     6.3
DOD + IMF incl.
short term (bln. US$)         21.8    19.5    17.5    16.7   137.2       17.3    14.4
DOD GDP (Z)                     31.4    34.2    30.0    28.4    26.6       24.1    16.0
Note: Exports, imports, current account balances and debt service ratios are
for convertible currency areas only. More than 75X of trade in goods, and
almost 95% in services is with the convertible currency areas.  Debt repayable
Jn convertible currencies is more than 93% of Yugoslavia's total external
debt. Debt sevvice includes estimated rescheduling. DOD includes debt to IMF
and other short-term debt (see Appendix I, page 4 for detail).
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.         Until the reform can be seen to be working, Yugoslavia's access to
external capital inflows will be limited and it will need to run current
account surpluses so as to meet its external debt obligations and maintain a
prudent level of international reserves. Debt outstanding and disbursed is
projected to stagnate between 1989-1992 as a consequence of a combination of
reschedulings and some fresh money which would provide Yugoslavia with the
financial resources it needs to maintain its reform program (Table 2) and
service certain debt. Yugoslavia's debt declines more rapidly thereafter as
the economy would be able to generate adequate resources domestically to
finance its growth. Due to expected better performance of the economy,
Yugoslavia's creditworthiness would continue to improve. In this scenario,
total debt-service (including estimated reschedulings) would decline from an



9
estimated 14.5X of convertible currency exports in 1989 to about 11 in 1992
and to under 7X in 1998 (Table 1). The level of gross foreign exchange
reserves would drop somewhat but remain at comfortable levels (3.6 months of
convertible currency imports in 1992 and 4.7 months of convertible currency
imports in 1997).
Table-2:  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions at Current Prices)
A. Net Disbursement      CY  1987  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1998
1. Public & Pub. Guar. LT   -1009  -112   -355   -342         87     74      58   -647
2. Private Non-guar.         -1474    83   -1154  -914   -914   -626   -230           0
3. Total LT Net Disb.        -2483   -29   -1509  -1256   -827   -552   -172   -647
3.1 World Bank                -136  -312   -294   -247         0     33      53   -125
4. IMF Credit                 -505      0   -225    275   -225   -275   -225   -275
5. Total incl. IMF           -2988   -29   -1734  -981  -1052   -277   -397   -372
B. External Debt (DOD)  CY  1987  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1998
1. Public & Pub. Guar. LT  14248 13948   13384 13174  14083  14257  14422   11479
2. Private Non-guar.          4357  3184    2030  1116   1191    565    335          375
3. Total LT Debt             18605 17132   15414 14290  15274  14822  14757   11854
3. 1 World Bank               2662  2720    2426  2179   2482   2514   2568    2429
4. IMF Credit                 1563  1311    1086  1361   1136   1411   1186    1561
5. DOD + IMF excl.
short term             20168 18443   16500 15651  16410  16233  15943   13415
Note: Since 1980, there has been a series of reschedulings during which private
non-guaranteed debt was reclassified as public debt.
Program of Adiustment and Economic Reform
Monitoring Economic Performance
19.         The macroeconomic scenario outlined above has three main
objectives - sustained and efficient growth, cessation of inflation, and
improvement in creditworthiness. To achieve these objectives, the Government
has initiated significant policy reforms that combine demand management
*   policies to stop inflation with structural reforms to improve efficiency and
sustain growth. To ensure that these policies are being implemented
consistently and are having the desired impact on economic development, the
authorities will monitor macroeconomic developments and review the emerging
trends and the underlying policy framework. For these purposes, a set of



10
monitorable macroeconomic indicators has been designed (Appendix II, Annex F,
Tables 1 and 2) to assess the policy performance of the Government and the
success of the reform program. The key indicators to be monitored are growth
in GSP, consumption and investment and developments with respect to the
current account balance of the BOP and international reserves.
20.         Programr to be suppoXted b,y SAL I.  The Government and the Bank
will review macroeconomic performance on the basis of a set of key
macroeconomic indicators. While the indicators by themselves would not be
performance cr4teria, they would be evaluated in the light of the Government's
policy initiatives as well as exogenous developments. If there are
significant adverse movements in these indicators, appropriate corrective
measures will be introduced. The Government and the Bank will jointly and
periodically review the Government's medium-term macroeconomic framework and
the prospects and policies for the short- and madium-term. A satisfactory
review of macroeconomic performance and prospects and policies for the
medium-term is a condition for second tranche release.
Liberalization of the Foreign Exchange Allocation System
21.         Between early 1986 and June 1988 administrative interventions in
the foreign exchange allocation mechanism were increasingly used to correct
imbalances in the supply and demand for foreign exchange, thereby controlling
the size of the external balance. The Foreign Exchange Law of 1986 required
the surrender of 100l foreign exchange receipts to authorized banks and access
to foreign exchange for imports became administratively determined. These
changes prevented the exchange rate from influencing the demand for, and
allocation of, foreign exchange. In early 1988 the Government recognized that
these interventions distorted the structure of incentives while doing little
to address the underlying reasons for excess demand for foreign exchange. As
a result, on May 28, 1988 a daily interbank market was established to provide
an appropriate institutional framework for the market determination of the
exchange rate. Access to the market has been expanding so that now, as part
of the reform program introduced in December 1989, any and all individuals are
able to pr.zrchase foreign exchange for imports.
22.         Program to be sunDorted by SAL II.  Under SAL II, the Goverrtient
will ensure that the foreign exchange market continues to play an effective
role in establishing the exchange rate and allocating foreign exchange to
efficient users. SAL II has supported further widening of access to foreign
exchange to all economic agents and will ensure that no new administrative
measures are imposed on the demand for foreign exchange. Semi-annual reviews
of the functioning of the foreign exchange market will be conducted.
Continued, wide access to the market is a condition for SAL II second tranche
release.
Trade Liberalization
23.         Following the liberalization of the foreign exchange allocation
system, the trade regime has become the main instrument of protection.
However, since may 1988, the Government has significantly liberalized the
trade regime by removing or reducing many controls so as to increase



11
competitive pressures. At present tariffs are low and relatively uniform so
that their protective and distortionary effects are almost nil. Instead,
selective quantitative restrictions (QRs) are the only remaining device for
protecting certain economic subsectors.
24.         The liberalization measures.  The remainder of the Government's
liberalization program aims at shifting items from the K (quota) to LB (freely
importable) categories in order to relax restrictions on quantities
importable.  To ensure that this affects domestic prices, production and
competition, the Government will liberalize according to a schedule using
production weights. Thus, liberalization of the K category will move a
sufficient number of goods from the K to LB category in order that at least
50 of the share of total production protected by the K category in 1987
(currently 36Z of domestic production) is free from quota protection. As a
result, it is expected that by mid-1991, no more than 501 of that share, or
goods affecting 181 of production will continue to be protected via the K
list.
25.         Program to be suinorted by SAL II.  Trade regime liberalizations
carried out through December 1989 have left the quota (K) regime as the only
form of protection. This is to be reduced to 501 of the existing production
coverage in four half-yearly steps with the first reduction of the production
coverage having occurred in July 1989. Thereafter further reductions will be
so as to reach a total of 501 by July 1991. A study, in conjunction with the
Bank, of the structural problems and competitiveness of industry is just being
completed. The findings of this study and its policy implications will be
discussed with the Bank prior to second tranche release.
Price Liberalization
26.         Yugoslavia has frequently attempted to control prices
administratively to reduce inflation or meet other economic objectives. As
the acceleration in inflation and low growth in GDP have demonstrated, these
measures have generally been harmful rather than helpful. This has now been
recognized by the authorities who want to reform the pricing regime so as to
allow market forces to determine prices for an increasing number of goods and
services in the economy. Prices which will continue to be set
administratively (such as for infrastructure and public utilities), will be
determined using economic and financial criteria which move them to their
appropriate relative levels. The Government has, since May 1988, continually
increased the share of "freely formed" prices in the Industrial Producer Price
Index (IPPI) so that as of December 1989, 751 of these prices and 701 of
retail prices are freely formed.  The remaining 251 prices, notably those for
ernergy, metals, and railway transport, will continue to be set
administratively. Most of these will be frozen under the anti inflation
program for a period of six months. Thereafter, they will be set by the
various producers using a set of formulae, including the Common Criteria
methodology, which take into account financial costs of production, prices in
other European markets, prices of substitutes, or some combination of these.



12
27.         Program to be sunnorted by SAL II.  Because there will be a six
month temporary price freeze beginning in February 1990, on 201 of IPPI
prices, the major focus of SAL II will be to prevent a resumption of price
controls after the freeze. As a condition of second tranche release the
Government should ensure that; (i) prices of at least 751 of goods and
services, measured by their production weights in the IPPI in 1987, are again
'freely formed"; (ii) the various power-entities are free, after the freeze,
to set their prices in line with the Common Criteria methodology in order to
a-h4ev'  60% of the rsal, (January 1990) Common Criteria targets by November 1,
_  ., x )  railway tariffs will be adjusted quarterly in line with
inflation so as to achieve and maintain an operating ratio of not higher than
110. The Federal Bureau of Prices (FBP) will monitor and provide reports to
the Bank on the decontrol of prices (see Appendix II, Annex C). In addition,
in view of the importance of creating a national market with competitive
prices, the Government will discuss with the Bank implementation of the
findings of the joint report on the analysis of the unified Yugoslav market.
Interest Rates and Financial Discipline
28.         In May 1988, the system of determining interest rates was changed
in order to ensure positive real interest rates on a broad range of
dinar-denominated deposits and loans. A system of indexation of principal of
time deposits of maturities equal to or greater than three months and term
.loans (of maturities of at least one year) was introduced. Interest is
calculated monthly, on the revalued principal. The interest rate on
three-month deposits will be at least 51 and correspondingly higher for
deposits of longer maturities. In addition an interbank money market was
developed in December 1989. This will, in the coming months, add a market
element to interest rate determination and, ultimately lead, after development
of a bond market, to a market determination of interest rates with monetary
influence being exerted through the discount rate only. The Government has
also discontinued interest rate subsidies provided through the monetary system
so that interest rates will be more uniform.
29.         Perhaps the most pernicious problem plaguing the Yugoslav economy
has been the lack of financial discipline, particularly by the enterprises and
their bankers. This, coupled with ineffective application of the Law on
Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy, has fostered continued enterprise losses,
excessive wage payouts and economic inefficiency. Several steps have recently
been taken to increase financial discipline. Major changes in the accounting
system have been introduced to take account of the effects of inflation on
enterprises' income statements and balance sheets and to provide a more
realistic assessment of the enterprises' financial condition. A new Law
setting a modern accounting framework was passed in early 1989 and recently
amended to strengthen this orientation. The new Law on Financial Operations
defines sanctions against illiquidity and establishes the conditions
triggering the application of the Law on Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy. Now
it is probable that a large number of enterprises will become subject to the
application of the Law during the reform. However, a small number of large
enterprises which account for most of the financial losses in the economy may,
if experience in other countries applies, continue to be exempt from
application of the Law. Under the recently amended reform program, these will



- 13
be singled out for special Federal and RAP Government attention, their losses
financed through fiscal means, and specific restructuring programs designed.
Under the same program the banking system is to be restructured, so that the
Law on Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy can be effectively applied by the banks
to the remaining enterprises, thus reintroducing financial discipline into the
economy.
30.         Program to be sunoorted bv SAL II.  NBY will monitor the continued
implementation of the recently adopted policy regarding positive real interest
rates. This SAL will support the initiation of further basic and significant
changes in the accounting and auditing system and related institutions in
order to prevent past practices of treating revenues and borrowing similarly.
Prior to their introduction, the Government will submit to the Bank the
details of the proposed changes, together with the plan for the technical- and_
financial assistance needed in these areas, including the plan to strengthen
the capabilities of the Social Accounting Service (SDK) and to provide for
additional accounting and auditing capabilities. Satisfactory progress in the
implementation of improved accounting procedures and auditing capabilities
will be a condition of second tranche release. In order to aid in the
establishment of financial discipline, the Federal Government will ensure that
the Law on Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy is appropriately revised. The
authorities will also set up institutions, at the Federal and RAP .evels to
rehabilitate or liquidate major problem enterprises (see paras. 33 to 37).
Investment Planning and Allocation
31.         In Yugoslavia, Federally financed investment is less than 5S  of
total fixed investment. The overwhelming bulk of investment is undertaken by
a myriad of decentralized enterprises using their own resources and loans from
banks. Consequently, efforts to improve the efficiency of investment focus
not on public sector investment but on improving the market signals that
investors face (e.g., through price decontrol, positive real interest rates,
appropriate exchange rate, etc.) and on improving financial discipline and the
information, diagnostic tools, and motivation which economic agents possess,
so that they can successfully respond to these new market signals. The
introduction and widespread application of the "uniform methodology" for
selection of investment projects in a market setting is an important part of
this effort. Depending on the size and nature of an investment project,
investors are required to undertake financial and economic analyses of the
proposed project and commercial banks are required to take these analyses into
account in deciding whether or not to lend for the project. The methodology
has been applied since February 1988 and agreements for monitoring its
application were reached in March 1989. In major infrastructure sectors
involving large nation-wide systems with substantial externalities (e.g.,
energy, road and rail transport), other economic and financial criteria will
be emphasized along with social concerns in evaluating and undertaking
investments.
32.         Program to be suo=orted by SAL II.  SAL II will support the
continued application of the uniform methodology for evaluation of investment
projects throughout Yugoslavia. The Bank will work with the YEA in improving
the effectiveness and breadth of application of the methodology and the YBA



14
will consult with the Bank on any proposed modifications to the methodology.
For this purpose, the %A, in conjunction with SDK has introduced a system for
monitoring the use of the uniform methodology and will prepare periodic
-reports assessing its effectiveness. These reports will form the basis for
joint reviews between the Bank and the YBA, to be held at least once a year.
In addition, the Bank and the appropriate Yugoslav authorities will review
outlays and plans for investment, including rehabilitation and maintenance, in
the energy, road and rail transport sectors, at least once a year. The
coverage and format for these reviews is to be similar to that usually carried
out by the Bank and as is mandated in Ln. No. 2878-YU, the Second Highways
Loan. The next series of these reviews and the first review with the YBA of
the application of the uniform methodology will be completed in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank prior to second tranche release.
Facilitatins Suolv Response
33.         The measures outlined above seek to correct distortions in various
markets and to expose financially responsible economic entities to correct
market signals. However, these measures will not prove adequate if
enterprises, banks and other entities are not structured and motivated to
respond appropriately to market forces, or if rigidities in the economy
prevent efficient responses and restructurings. To ensure a strong supply
response from the economy, the Government is complementing the measures
outlined above with a series of fundamental reforms that would streamline
economic decision-making at various levels and promote greater flexibility in
the economy. Some of these reforms required amendments to the Constitution;
these were ratified by end 1988. Others called for new or amended laws. Many
of these have been approved although the process is still on-going.
34.         The new Enterprise Law enacted in 1988 introduced fundamental
economic changes. The new law and its amendments permit the establishment of
enterprises of private, joint as well as social ownership and ensures equal
treatment for all enterprises. Enterprises are given full autonomy in many
areas of decision-making. Investors' rights in management will be
proportional to their shares of investment. Furthermore, a new Law on Social
Capital, enacted in December 1989, enables management to maximize profits and
the enterprises to become privately owned under certain circumstances. The
Government has identified small- and medium-scale enterprises as an important
area for absorbing unemployment and increasing the supply response and will,
therefore, formulate special measures to promote the growth of the sector.
The new Law on Foreign Investment allows foreign investment ix most areas of
the economy in either joint or wholly foreign owned firms. To attract more
foreign investment, restrictions on remittance of profits were reduced, and
some temporary tax incentives at the RAP level are being considered.
35.         Proposed financial sector reforms, announced in December 1989,
will strengthen monetary policy and improve financial intermediation. The
former will be accomplished by making NBY a true central bank with greater
autonomy to conduct monetary policy, and regulate and oversee commercial
banks.  Limits on lending by any one bank to an enterprise will be imposed to
reduce exposure risk and moves to strengthen bank management introduced. The
Government aims to restructure the banking sector rapidly; in January 1990,



15
provisionally licensed banks started to operate according to the new set of
regulations. The process of restructuring commercial banks will be completed
by the end of 1991. at which time all banks still operating satisfactorily
will become fully licensed.
36.         Restructuring the enterprise sector is considered by the
Government to be a crucial part of the effort to increase supply response. A
sample of enterprises with major problems has been identified and will be
analyzed so as to formulate programs for restructuring. The aim of these
restructurings is to lower financing requirements by reducing costs and
production inefficiencies with the eventual aim of making these enterprises
competitive by international standards or closi-ng them. The Government has
also agreed to finance the largest loss makers through fiscal means as part of
its anti inflation program. It has budgeted $600 million in 1990, to be
financed through new taxes, in order to prevent the financing of such deficits
by banks which has led to spiraling inflation in the past. Restructuring
institutions will be set up at both the Federal and RAP levels to implement
programs and to care for the public interest in the restructuring process.
The new Labor Law, currently being drafted, is also important for enterprise
reform because it is expected to reduce the management rights of workers,
improve labor mobility and facilitate the exit of redundant workers from
enterprises. In addition, Government establishment of a money market, and its
proposal to establish a capital market are important steps in improving
capital mobility.
37.         Program to be suDDorted by SAL II.  SAL II will support
enhancement of the powers of the NBY so that it will be an effective central
bank as well as steps to restructure the financial and enterprise sectors. As
regards the banking sector, this will be done by a) ensuring that the audit of
the portfolio of existing banks is done using international standards, b)
having, before second tranche release, a joint NBY-Bank review of the result
of these audits before finalizing the program of licensing new banks, and c)
ensuring that NBY's program to develop its regulatory and supervisory
functions and capabilities is adequate. As regards the enterprise sector, as
a condition of release of the second tranche the Government will; (a)
establish adequate institutional arrangements with appropriate authority and
coordination to provide at the republican and provincial level for the
rehabilitation, liquidation or restructuring of selected enterprises; (b)
adopt programs to, (i), reduce the losses, calculated as of January 1, 1990,
of the twenty largest makers by 30X to 501, and (ii), develop rehabilitation
or liquidation plans for at least five of the twenty enterprises; and, (c)
adopt a program, including adequate institutional arrangements and incentives,
to encourage the formation and further development of small- and medium-size
enterprises in order to increase economic efficiency and employment in the
economy.
38.         It is noteworthy that the Yugoslavs have, as part of SAL II,
agreed for the first time to use external technical assistance and expertise
to implement the reform process. This is an important development which lends
credibility to the entire reform program. The Federal Government and the Bank
have formulated a general.program for technical assistance for the next few
years. The scope of this program, including the areas to be covered by



16
technical assistance, was considered and approved by the Federal Executive
Council in early January 1990. In particular, external technical assistance
has been approved in the areas of: (a) fiscal reform; (b) enterprise
restructuring; restructuring programs, and training (c) employment and the
social cost of adjustment; (d) banking restructuring programs; (e) auditing
and accounting; and (f) securities markets and non-bank financial
intermediaries. In addition a Government agency (the Yugoslavia Federal
Agency for Scientific, Technical and Educational Administration or, "JUZAMS")
has been designated to administer the technical assistance program using World
Bank procedures and guidelines for hiring international consultants.
Economic Impact and Social Costs of the Adjustment Program
39.         The main impact of the adjustment program will be to restore
sustainable growth in GDP and the standard of living while increasing exports
and re-establishing Yugoslavia's international creditworthiness. The latter
will involve, among other things, creating conditions that will allow the
economy to respond flexibly and efficiently to external shocks. However,
social costs will arise as the economy adjusts to the competitive pressures
from which it has been largely insulated in the past.
40.         Economic impact.  The rapid and consistent implementation of the
stabilization and structural adjustment program in all its facets is expected
to dramatically lower inflation to 1X per month and enable the economy to
accelerate its growth rate, after a projected decline in 1990, to 2.5X to 3%
per year between 1991-1998, with consumption per capita growing by about 1.5%
per year (Table 1, p. 8). This growth scenario is sustainable and consistent
with internal and external equilibrium. The increasing volume of investment
would be fir-anced largely by domestic resource mobilization and increased
imports. Yugoslavia's external debt would remain almost constant between
1989-1992 but decline thereafter. All external debt indicators would improve.
While this scenario assumes full implementation of the program, assuming
inflation is stopped, there is a positive impact on the economy even if
implementation were somewhat partial, or if the response of the economy to
policy changes is slower than currently envisaged.  A projection consistent
with this less optimistic scenario shows that GDP would still grow by about 1%
per year during 1991-1997 and consumption per capita would remain stagnant
until 1992, but would grow slightly thereafter.
41.         Social Costs of Adjustment.  Despite the economic benefits that
the entire population will share as a result of the sustained economic growth
in the medium term, it is clear that the adjustment efforts will create some
economic hardships. In the very short run these will likely be distributional
in nature and will be alleviated by the RAPs' well developed institutions for
caring for the relatively disadvantaged by making their consumption
possibilities more equal to the general populations'. Over the longer run
Yugoslavia's relatively equal distribution of income may become more skewed,
in order to improve the incentive system, and new problems may arise. The
most severely affected group will be workers who are presently engaged in
activities and enterprises which must be closed or which can only become
viable by laying off workers. Real wages will fall in some activities. In
others, plant closings and temporary unemployment will be unavoidable, _



17
42.         The Government has budgeted $400 million or 0.7% of GDP to cover
expected increased social costs in 1990. However, it is well aware of the
important need to replace its current safety net with one more consistent with
enhanced producer and investor incentives. This program will emphasize, among
other things, more retraining of displaced workers and the provision of
information regarding availability of jobs throughout the country as well as
new employment opportunities. The RAPs all have income supplement and health
care programs to help the poor, unemployed, aged and disabled. Some also have
retraining programs.  The value of benefits per person covered, as well as the
coverage, across the RAPs varied in the past but has been made more equal as
part of the reform process. However, new programs which stress human capital
creation must be adopted and new sources of financing found.
43.         Program to be supgorted by SAL 11.  The Bank will provide support
in the design and implementation of the new programs to be developed and to
encourage the establishment and growth of small scale and private sector
enterprises. In the context of SAL II, it has been agreed that specific
programs, and their financing, will be discussed and agreed to with the Bank
as a condition for release of the second tranche.
Risks Associated with the Ad1ustment Program
44.         In the near term, a significant risk is that implementation of the
anti-inflationary elements of the Standby and SAL II would falter, allowing
hyper-inflation to be reignited. The present signals are encouraging;
enforcement of the program has been strict and the reformers, including the
current Prime Minister, remain committed to its continued implementation. In
this setting, approval of the Standby and SAL II will provide a further boost
to the reform program and, therefore, to continued price stability. Continued
monitoring of progress in the context of the Standby and SAL II programs and
related disbursements (e.g., of the second tranche of SAL II) would reduce the
risk of backsliding, such as would be evidenced by increases in enterprise
losses not covered by fiscal transfers. Another major risk, in the longer
term, is that the program of structural reform may not be implemented
consistently or forcefully enough because of resistance to the fundamental
nature of the changes proposed or because of political tensions arising from
the heterogeneous and decentralized nature of the country. Should this be the
case, expected increases in efficiency would not occur and a new round of
inflation would probably result. Associated with this, is the risk that
despite the implementation of the program, the economy does not respond as
rapidly as envisaged, thereby generating misgivings about the reform effort.
In addition, the implementation of the structural adjustment program will
involve a period of austerity and short term transitional costs arising
largely from temporary unemployment. The program may be jeopardized if these
short term costs are not well managed and the existing safety net becomes
overwhelmed and fails to provide temporary relief to the segments of the
population that are most adversely affected. In these circumstances, the
Government's resolve to implement the program may weaken.
45.         There are several mitigating circumstances,, however.  A
significant number of key measures have already been taken including those in
the new IMF Standby. Furthermore, additional reform measures, currently being



18
considered and widely debated in the country, offer hope that the "pain" of
adjustment will be rewarded in the longer run. Also, the Government is keenly
aware of the need for an effective safety net for those adversely affected by
the reforms and, as noted above (paras. 41 to 43), has started the process of
designir,g improvements in this area. Finally, the Government is well aware
that there are serious political risks in not vigorously implementing the
program.
46.         An alternative scenario was constructed to measure the likely
'impact on the economy and living standards if the Government does not
implement the adjustment program. The liberalization of the foreign trade and
domestic pricing regimes is assumed to be halted or reversed. Administrative
interventions would be reintroduced to allocate foreign exchange. Real
interest rates would be lowered, becoming negative once again and credit,
monetary, and fiscal policies relaxed so that domestic demand would expand.
Fundamental, systemic changes to banks and enterprises would be postponed
indefinitely. Moreover, it was assumed that the halting, or reversal of the
reform program would adversely affect rescheduling so that almost no new gross
capital inflows would occur. The results of th,s scenario are clearly
negative, including a decline in per capita consumption through 1997. In view
of the past several years of stagnant or falling per capita consumption, this
suggests loss of political support and heightened problems with international
creditworthiness. In short, risks for the Government in implementing the
program are less than in not implementing it.
Justification for Bank Supnort
47.         The SAL would support in a timely fashion the Government's program
of adjustment and reform that would allow a steady and sustainable increase in
the standard of living of the population. This program of reforms, many
elements of which represent significant moves in the direction of a market-
and export-oriented economy, has been discussed intensively with the Bank
during the past three years and has been supported over this period by the
IMF, Paris Club and commercial banks, all of whom expressed intentions to more
favorably consider new money or credit rescheduling should any projected
surpluses become more problematic and assured access to foreign credit more
necessary. Indeed, in the extreme case of complete success in implementation
of the liberalization and market enhancing reforms, it is likely that growth
in imports of capital goods and technology will reverse the balance of
payments situation so that continued, though modest net new inflows of foreign
credit will be needed. In light of this, sustained Bank support at this
juncture will increase the receptiveness of other creditors to consider
greater flows of external credit in the future and would greatly contribute to
the success of the reform effort, thus further strengthening the government's
resolve to implement fully its program of structural adjustment.



19
PAEI  III - COUNTRY AISTAS CE STIATEGY AND BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Assistanee Strata&y
48.         The primary objective of the Bank's current assistance strategy is
to support continued Government efforts to reform the economy, strengthen its
market orientation and promote the role of the private sector. Bank lending
would, therefore, include policy adjustmont operations, such as financial,
enterprise and fiscal sector adjustment loans, to support deepening of the
measures being initiated under the proposed SAL II. Other traditional Bank
lending would support sector/subsector and investment operations primarily in
industry, SME's, transport, power, agriculture, water resource and
environmental development. Lending operations in the transport sector,
particularly for roads and railways, and the power subsector would continue to
support the improvement of sectoral policies and priority investments aimed at
accelerating the integration of the domestic market, enhancing efficiency of
production, and facilitating and expanding the economic links with the
European Community.
49.         This strategy assumes that the Government will continue to reach
agreements with the IMF on stabilization programs beyond the expiration of the
present one in June 1991 either in the form of more Standbys or possibly an
EFF. These programs would continue to be consistent with particular programs
to support financial and enterprise sector reforms and the reform and enhanced
use of the fiscal system to finance any enterprise subsidies which would
remain after the financial and enterprise sectors are restructured.
50.         The linchpin underlying the proposed Bank assistance strategy to
Yugoslavia is the proposed SAL II. Assuming that the Government maintains its
commitment to fundamental economic reform, SAL II would initiate a significant
increase in the level of Bank assistance to Yugoslavia in order that we may
indicate our positive response and thus provide more effective support to the
economic reform (particularly in view of the net negative disbursement
position presently in effect vis a vis Yugoslavia). Depending on the strength
of the Goverrment's program and its implementation, this enhanced lending
program would be characterized by a series of policy based operations. in
support of the reform, in addition to sector and investment loans, with
particular focus on enterprise restructuring and small- and medium-scale
enterprise development to promote their supply response. Implementing reform,
however, will involve major risks. The difficulties in breaking the
inflationary spiral, and imposing financial discipline, in enforcing the
Bankruptcy Law, and in reforming basic institutions will place strains on an
already fragile social and political system. While a consensus appears to
have emerged in Yugoslavia that the risks of not taking such steps are even
greater, it might be unrealistic to expect a steady pace of reform. Since we
expect to have a major adjustment operation every year, we would have
practically a continual opportunity to judge whether the pace and courage of
the reform is being maintained. Review of progress in meeting tranche release
conditions, expected to be included in these adjustment operations would also
provide opportunities for further assessment. The first such opportunity



20
would be the release conditions for the second tranche of SAL II which could
take place as early as the fourth quarter of CY 1990.
51.         In addition to our assumptions regarding continued programs with
the IMF, we would expect bilateral and commercial creditors to maintain a
relatively active presence in Yugoslavia by providing new loans in addition to
some new rescheduling agreements. The net exposure of the bilaterals, would
increase through 1992, from its share of 231 of medium- and long-term DOD in
i989. The exposure of commercial creditors would increase slightly toward the
end of this period to about 521.
52.         Depending on the pace of reform, the Bank's operational program
could reach an annual lending level of about $700 million of which about 45Z
in the next few years would support adjustment operations. We should,
however, retain flexibility and be ready to adjust the size of our lending to
the strength of the Government effort. A relative weakening of this effort
could still entail a substantial program of, say $300-400 million, provided
the set-back is relatively moderate, the stabilization efforts are maintained,
and the tone of the policy dialogue with the Bank and the Fund remains
positive with a reasonably good prospect for re-intensifying the reform. This
situation could arise, for example, if some of the supply response measures
under SAL II are not fully implemented, or the ongoing efforts to tighten
financial discipline are slowed down somewhat.
Lending
53.         To date, the Bank has made 98 loans ts Yugoslavia, totalling about
$4.4 billion, net of cancellations. Loans totalling $1.7 billion
(approximately 401 of the total) have been for infrastructure; twenty-one
loans, totalling about $0.9 billion (191 of the total), were made for the
agriculture sector; fourteen loans, totalling about $0.8 billion (18%) were
made for the energy sector, and twenty-three loans, amounting to about $0.6
billion (14Z of the total) were made for industry. Other loans made to
Yugoslavia included two multipurpose loans, two for tourism, and one each for
air pollution control and structural adjustment.
54.         Th.ough the period up to the late 1970s, the bulk of Bank lending
focussed on infrastructure and public utilities. Bank lending for increased
production capacity, particularly in agro-processing and small- and
medium-scale industry intensified during the late 1970s and early 1980s,
focussing on the less-developed RAJPs. Since 1983, the emphasis of Bank
lending has shifted somewhat toward support of the Government's program of
structural adjustment; its efforts have been aimed at promoting exports and
improving the efficiency of investment and concentrated in areas where its
institutional and policy coordination impact is expected to be the greatest.
Accordingly, there was a shift toward more policy-based and sector operations,
including the first Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2326-YLT) in FY83 and
sector loans in transport and energy.
55.         Overall, project implementation has faced delays, due to sectoral
and project-specific issues, as well as other factors such as: the need to
ensure inter-regional consensus, particularly for multi-republic projects;



21
complicated local procedures; the shortage of local funds; the lack of foreign
exchange availability, particularly for non-expotters; and the perceived high
foreign exchange risk on Bank loans. Five loans, approved by the Executive
Directors in FY84 (Fertilizer Sector Loan) in FY85 (Bosnia-Hercegovina
Forestry Improvement Project) and in FY88 (three loans for the fertilizer
project), could not be signed and were eventually withdrawn. In recent years,
a lack of agreement on macro policies coupled with a weak pipeline of
investment projects and difficulties in firming up project proposals resulted
in a low volume of lending to Yugoslavia. This, combined with the
implementation issues mentioned above, as well as the impact of currency
variations, resulted in net disbursements from the Bank becoming negative in
FY88 (-$288.0 million) and in FY89 (-$255.2 million). Although disbursements
have declined since FY86, Yugoslavia's overall disbursement performance
remains around the Bank-wide average.
Country Economic and Sector Work
56.         The Bank's economic and sector work is aimed at assisting the
Government's efforts, as well as laying the foundation for the Bank's
assistance program. It will address key areas, such as: fiscal reform; the
efficiency of resource allocation; improving factor markets and resource
mobility; and administrative, institutional and structural reforms. A review
of the financial sector was discussed with the Government in October 1989 and
has provided the basis for the additional missions focusing on the reform of
the financial system. A financial sector adjustment loan would support this
reform. A study of the tax system was initiated in late 1989. It should
permit the development of a modern and coherent Ziscal framework to be
supported under a subsequent Bank loan. A study on competition in the
domestic economy will be discussed with the Government soon. This is to be
followed by a study on industrial policy. In addition, in view of the
importance of alleviating the social costs of adjustment and of improving the
environment, studies in both areas are to be initiated soon.
57.         Planned operations in the transport and energy sectors are based
on ongoing dialogue with the Government on the appropriateness of investment
programs in these sectors, a balance between new investments and maintenance
expenditures, as well as sector studies focussing on pricing, investment and
institutional reform issues. This sector work would reinforce ongoing
dialogue as well as define appropriate sector policy and institutional
reforms.
Bank Loans Outstanding
58.         At the end of 1989, the Bank's share in Yugoslavia's medium- and
long-term (MLT) public and publicly-guaranteed debt disbursed and outstanding
amounted to about 15.7X. Debt service payments on Bank debt amounted to 18%
of the country's debt service on long-term debt (Table 3). The ratio of debt
service to the Bank to convertible currency exports amounted to 4.5%.



22
Bf,nk Exposure
59.         Provided the authorities continue to show their commitment to
structural reforms and implement these consistently, the Bank will be willing
to play a significant role in supporting this effort through a combination of
adjustment and project lending. This pattern of lending and the relatively
longer amortization period for Bank loans imply that the Bank's exposure to
the country wili increase modestly relative to other creditors (including IMF)
from 15.4X of DOD in 1989 to about 20X in 1993-98. However, debt service
payments to the Bank will decline from 5X of convertible currency exports in
1989 to about 3.81 in 1992 and to 2.81 in 1998 (Table 3).
Table 3: YUGOSLAVIA - DEBT EXPOSURE
CY   1987   1988   1989   1990  1992 1993-97  1998
_   - -actual--   ---- estimated-----------
IBRD DS/Total DS                 12.0   32.0   17.9   17.6   19.4   21.5   20.9
IBRD DS/Total Exports G&S         3.4    4.0    3.7    3.6    3.1    2.7    2.4
IBRD DS/CC Exports G&S            4.4    5.0    4.5    4.4    3.8    3.3    2.8
IBRD DOD/DOD M & LT              15.5   15.9   15.7   15.2   17.0   19.0   20.5
DOD Preferred/DOD M & LT         24.2   23.9   23.1   23.0   26.4   28.5   27.0
DS Preferred/Total DS            17.3   28.7   25.5   26.5   18.3   19.3   23.3
DOD/GDP                          31.4   34.2   30.0   28.4   26.6   24.1   23.7
DOD/CC Exports G&S              172.8  137.8  125.6  119.2   97.4   75.8   59.5
Debt Service/CC Export G&S
(excl. resched. amount)         25.3   28.3   21.2   19.3   23.8   19.8   13.5
The Bank's Past Exuerience with Structural Adjustment in Yugoslavia
60.         In 1983, the First Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2326-YU)
supported Yugoslavia's efforts to establish a more efficient pattern of
growth. At the same time, restrictive monetary and fiscal policies, aimed at
reducing domestic absorption, and pursuit of a more active exchange rate
policy, designed to encourage growth in production and export of tradables,
were agreed to under an IlF Standby. Structural reforms were based on the
recommendations of a high-powered commission and its report titled The
Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization (LTPES). The thrust of these
reforms was to increase the role of market forces in the economy. SAL I
supported this effort in three areas: (i) interest rates, investment planning
and allocation, (ii) foreign exchange allocation and external trade policies,
and (ii) price policies and enterprise decision-making. The sectors
emphasized were energy and agriculture.



23
61.         Implementation of policy commitments under SAL I were initiated by
the Government in 1983. Reform progress, particularly with respect to
stabilization, later faltered and inflation became an increasingly serious
problem. This in turn led to significant backsliding, beginning in 1985, on a
number of SAL I structural reforms. During 1986, the policy stance relaxed so
much that the aims of SAL I - supported programs were essentially undone. As
a result, by mid-1987, the country, in many respects, was back where it
started in 1983 in its efforts to reform and stabilize the economy. However,
important principles were established including the importance of moving
deposit and lending interest rates toward positive levels; adjusting
administered prices toward appropriate levels; depreciating the exchange rate;
and increasing enterprise accountability. Progress was also made in a number
of other areas. They included the ratification of the Social Compact on
Investment Criteria and the loosening of the price regime away from
administered prices. In contrast, there was no progress in reforming the
system of foreign exchange allocation and the trade regime was even less
satisfactory than in 1983. Also, resistance and delays were experienced in
initiating the package of studies proposed under SAL I.
IEC fterations
62.         IFC has been involved in Yugoslavia since 1970.  Through
end-October 1989, it has made 27 investments, totalling about $400 million,
net of participations and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in
Yugoslavia are to: (i) assist export-oriented industries; (ii) encourage
foreign investment on a joint venture basis; (iii) foster technological
transfer; and (iv) mobilize other financial resources in addition to IFC's own
funds*.
PART IV - LOAN ADMINISTRATION
Eligible ExDenditures
63.         The proposed loan of $400 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of imported goods and services. Goods specified in a list of
excluded items, goods financed from other sources, and goods procured under
contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent will not be eligible for
financing under the loan.  The exclusions are military or para-military goods,
nuclear reactors and parts, and luxury goods, such as precious stones, jewelry
and gold, and tobacco and narcotics. The financing of petroleum products and
foodstuffs under the loan are limited up to an aggregate ceiling of $30
million.
Procurement
64.         International competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with World
Bank guidelines will be used for contracts of $5 million or more. Other
imports would be procured following usual commercial practices of the
purchaser of the goods. Procurement will be grouped whenever possible into
packages suitable for ICB. For procurement through ICB, bids, bid evaluation



24
reports and certified copies of contracts would be presented to the Bank prior
to submission of the first application of withdrawal of funds. For other
procurement, prior to submission of the related withdrawal application, the
borrower will furnish all information and documentation that the Bank may
reasonably request in respect of such procurement.
Disbursement
65.         The National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY), the borrower for the
proposed loan, would be responsible for the administration of the loan.
Disbursements from the loan account would be made against 100l of the cost of
eligible imports. Withdrawal applications for disbursements on contracts of
goods procured under ICB would be fully documented. In all other cases,
disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
from NBY detailing individual transactions in a given period, and
certification of payment and of eligibility of the transactions for loan
financing. Supporting documentation for disbursements under SOEs would be
retained by NBY until at least 12 months after the closing of the loan
account. To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established
at NBY. The initial deposit would be $50 million (approximately three months'
of estimated disbursements). Replenishments would be made monthly or when
half of the account fund has been utilized. The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed 21 months after effectiveness. The loan closing date would be March
31, 1991.
Accounts and Audits
66.         NBY would maintain records of all transactions under the loan in
accordance with sound accounting practices. All accounts (including the
special account) would be audited within six months of the end of its fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports would
include a separate opinion on claims submitted to the Bank on the basis of
SOEs and would state whether the claims were made in accordance with the terms
of the Loan Agreement.
Release of Funds and Tranching
67.         The proceeds of the loan would be made available for withdrawal in
tvo tranches. The first tranche of $150 million would be released upon loan
effectiveness. The second tranche of $250 million would become available upon
fulfillment of agreed conditions. The specific actions to be monitored and
the timing of their implementation constitute the conditions for release of
the second tranche and.atset out in the policy matrix (Table 4) on the next
two pages and in paras. 68 to 71 below.  In summary they relate to the          _
continued implementation of an effective stabilization program, the
continuation of trade, price and foreign exchange liberalizations, improvement
in financial discipline and investment decision-making, decision-making
reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors so as to facilitate the supply
response of the economy, and alleviation of social costs of adjustment.



25
et 42 Ult AD INQ=   UUEIL.  .M& UI t   (9L It)
........... . ..... ... . .. . -.......... ...                              ... .. ...... . ..............
........... ........... _o"4 ... . ................ _,
VAULCO Airw   raten             taim bv Sr Isu              s        t.
biaec                   or in P.m                     ti                         C  cHtia  1/
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -^...... .. . .. . ...... . .......... . .. ...
efttowinC Prowm
a) Coin inflation       1. Fatla IMF Stwd' Sso    1. nuit to ta nt               1. Satlstory P r
b) E.i' sastst            f. 5X of W allce-              ai,   eatiw               in arrying w  te Kecro-
eINuic wed'             "t  to .lrN*   wtuW        d         c  _d  mtfcies.    eARiC Pierm
Z) Orume ur;              s st. citre  art          2. tMems  an"armi
d0 tulru.  riO,            iet1   credit. sedm         Plop  of pticy ljt-
ires                    wow ad p*tfc 6wfq.          own ai nrdeius for
2. Itl ret m1iwu  ra MU d      1     amm  6d  9945.
-ris    3, ret li-
1ie -. bow" ad 1w
tedrnautrl
Es?etidi sopVP4ot       1. Esmeshdi  tttw* MC-   1. Agawsi  to Mtn&              1.  alm    of a
eaUssuw  me ad attats   ket fo faulI  c        .        tts adi        t oftitive ftWg
foigw   8etswm  to tsst                               patloy.                       maw. autet.
oficiat Uwe             2. oet.M adsu Mre to   2. Me to aofns uic
Lvkcarm         d.          M     to meet.
Tr  Liberaliztton
t_wr   intwutlgul       1. LIbesatI  hqw   *        1. Pr4b  ft* with ps.ctif' 1. Liberwllze K ius
=i~tltivum ad             incresltr fr  u      d       rf   of K eo"V.            in e     i sitth
--.tfw effiefeu            frh   llX  ne. 1W)      2. Auee to d fems              mged u to .
to IS (Dec. t).             tfIwatlatien so*.
3. A"  an ter   f  to
Uibwtizat' of K ihwt.
Pri,ce Rfe
e    dlsdi tiua         1. Uss  in IPPI of frosky   1. )ge to alIce at West 752  1. WvlAM   that prices
in relatie prics.         f dPriem inm                ot plan to be freely fo      ContiMa to be frosty
Irerme ,tic               ft  v% (Dec. 8an to            er tliftiw of tair.ry     fiN.L  V
price ca itit             751 in De0. 89.              price frem.               2. O ilbE  ad ama prices
2. Koe ainiswed prien                                           bmen adjtAd
in_rMd                                                  ariatoty ard a
3. iwberlty for p     ad                                   rwiew at swh prices
o_f lp' i      i $                                      eted
to dthectors.
finircia, Oleiptfie
Wt    LW as _da &    1. SON dgd  LW n fthdj.  1. iwi'cn to Wn  Qti-   1. Cinscsmw  of iplntnticn
1*n~my as "a to nws       ad BdN"cytsv  ines          tet   iWnf. an a _e  of    of pow    atisteary
dm  metes sqe Par          iwf rNrep adw uitatu        Ieaedsbv soar1M.   - -  to t u* to vto i
mite ad 1mw In    gium  Wio  tiWisud       2.   qmnt to pekfo fiest       iaifrq ad aditfiw
aiepice, itr               1w rstrictium cn            remaoe to emr WV            psetiom & ca titty.
atthetcn of cedilt,        fUtqald ad t_ese*"          Lmi.                      2. iwinwtiaptmwevtian
d fecititae  dit of       fi.                      3. P wid o wed* crulaW         of   wriat. intest
*   ifeint firm.        2. WiA*d wd stawdm             MOM of I,qetd   ,sitlwu   rs poticy.
s Wmati  ad aditiru         & aditiu  dw  l ad pil
ptw tdh ns m LWm  fwr iargaydne ML
;, Aiawiru ad
FPewuiat Omratla'.
1/ A pw lain dxin.
2/ 75X of prim in the lteatrial Pred    Price Irc  dtAd astima to be
frely fd



26
TVe 4: ItUL      A SEW    WICW    M.Ir1I L_  (SRL 11)
p~~~.Icv Mmlx                                .~~~~~~~/2
.......... ............... ................................... ..................................................................
'''''''''''''''''''-.. VAWJ   .................
_Msw Atrftl Taken                  1Take by                        Secwd Trarl"
Cbjectiw                   or In 1rop-a                    fotiaties                       Cwnditia, I/
............................................................................................................................
Irwasut Alltcatial
lIn-we allocatin of        1. Wirfeb   alication of    1. ftree to revis wilth the         1. Satisfactory uapleticn
inrestat ieudLiiu            utdform    I l ogy  for        1Bn  invaumt in tm-               of first revews of the
lewiri  vaiwu of stock   istiuut section.                    prt  d t tctors.                anisforim  APm Ilogy  ad
asicaulation.              2. Raise rel  interest rates    2.  eeipt b" 15* otf tfis          inestmnt in trauport
ad iap-s. tirwciat              wrisu of dM's pian to           wd socgy sters.
disciptire so th  cot           asitor Slicatla1 of          2. Satisfactory revia of
of imentory sauSlaticn          aslmfora mtlcbow.               first mnitoring reort
t _ises.                                                       an wlicatin of uadform
ashouvq.
ON* ad roompris Reorm
Restricte the 1ankig       1. Ap    key eastitutiaml   1. Strn tlep t           r_t f  ro  1. Establid.t of ivtituticm
& Enterprise sectrs so        MI  A     us.                   thAO   Opting key pro-          errwinwats at the
* to  iaF t                2. A        key, abt ire           pond    I -at  to th           FPdv-l ard IU lewIs
utiLizatiwn of cit1           Lawia Eterp rise                los ulrdy p_ed ww with ahority to
stck ard the athcttan         B1nkir,. Rt. ire3u1             sm  other rat too.               a on theha*ilitatiau or
ad utilizatian of ra          Inveautant, Ao titiM         2.  rm %v in action                ticiebtin of large, l
inwut.                        Piewial tiemiau.               progre  to strwa ne  SY#s        mkirg e.tep-iss.
retetary ad s4prvisory    2. Pric ntien of a
capwity ad to restrutwe         px -n for raeing the
te b*Irq atew- prt-             dficits of the 20
folto il:udir  aitfre           largrst lots-ineg
of 1w5     ing inmatia.l    enteWliue. 2/
sta  r* ald leotise.         3. Prcvisian of pies,
3. Abe to p*e a  pop               satisfactory to
of _mes     fore    stoiAsiting  the Ban, for thc ajiting
so entries ad a pre             ard rdah. or ti*iihtion of
for assistig the  atpriso    r  less then 5 of the 2
astor rehl./restnaturing        sjor pr*lm arh sim.
listdin3 eei  of  o-         4. Adoptien ad cnut of inple-
prita. tttuatias.               mwntatian of ppr    mtis-
factory to Ome  ank. to poate
the etry of now aft-
prism  icluding admute
trtitutiaul an       _"a
ard iracntis to aumiag
the fonation of Oft.
S. Progess satisfactory to
San, in duwlpnire a      te
bok suix"isory fuistias
"d  cqaftis,   rpOriate
15* replatiam and as-
qat precares to anew
edit 15* portftolie in
accoaeu  with interm
ticatl staZd  a
practices.
6. Pisin of p
satisfactory to te sar
fee rutataurwig 155 so
tht they fustiau  at owf %
fifamial intt fiaries.
Social Cuts C Of  dJUsUM:
Strowthum th  s)stuo       1.  Istld_i at ofa *irkino    1. Pe-Asisn to the Sat of         1. Aoptin of ad iple-
for renegiq the sbial         Crop tidc p     n-p c          a sxwe  of aistiog pro-           Intticn of Mme pQogrm
cuts of adJtsut, so           stsrdiose  ce tay-,ac           gIn at th  R  tent               in elira  m_ae  satis-
as to fati litt effect-       solutions to at leiatinr                                        factory to the Ban to
i%SWs of ad sa4ort            tM  smats of aoloet                                             attevia  ths eats
for th  re to  pg             ad   - lc rest iresa.                                           of adjusuest. iaclaiirw
retraining. d  assista
in *tainirne now upt*at.
2. Provide 9.* with detaied
stua  of deiry ard
_________________                                                                           retrainirg sstm.
1/  A pr laem douents.
2/ Deficits sbeAd to rcamel by 30; to SOL



27
;2=Uitionalit! for second franche Releus.
In view of the Government's substantial progress in carrying out
iberalization and investment elements of the SAL II program, the second
he conditions in these areas mainly concern monitoring and/or extending
iberaltxation and inveostent aLlocation reforms and providing monitorable
mation on how the price, trade, foreign exchang  and invstment programs
orking.
In light of this the core conditions for second tranche release
.r.in the areas of financial and enterorise sector reform, successful
vw and implementation of the UsgX      g rgj.g p=grX  and the design and
icing of more growth oriented rather than distributional programs to
rit --tho sggiAl ggogtg of adMUstM.n. The latter includes a program for
3si1ng SJs which should be for ulatod and in the initial tagas of_...
mentation.
Financi4 and enteroise rgform. The primary aims are to,
ease financial discipline, transparently finance any remaining, truly
anted subsidies to large enterprises through the fiscal system and
ease the productive efficiency of existing enterprises and new
stments, importantly by improving the allocation of credit and investment
urces. Key elements of the second tranche conditions in the area. of
ncial reform include; (i) evaluation, using internationally acceptable
.ting practices, of bank portfolios in order to provide a firm basis for
.censing the better banks; (ii) development of adequate regulatory and
-rvisory capabilities in NBY; and (iii) development of appropriate programs
institutions for restructuring the banks so that they function as
ictive financial intermediaries. Second tranche conditions for initiating
*rprise reform are; (i) establishment of institutional arrangements for
ibilitation or liquidation of selected enterprises; (ii) preparation of a
;ram for reducing losses of the 20 largest loss-making enterprises by 30%-
and (iii) development of rehabilitation or liquidation programs for at
st 5 of these, includLig assurance that any financing requirements are
Bred in non-inflationary, non-distortionary ways. The third area concerns
Ps and consists of a second tranche condition that the Government adopt an
eptable program for stimulating the initiation of new SME's.
The macroeonomic frmework and-social costs of adustment.  The
.roeconomic performance review will focus on (a) growth indicators such as
I and export growth, (b) macroeconomic balances such as the ratio of current
-ount balance of the BOP to GDP and any changes in external reserves and,
the various external debt indicators such as the ratios of external debt
exports, and GDP and the ratios of interest payments to exports and GDP.
a part of the review prior to release of the second tranche, the Government
LI-review macroeconomic developments in consultation with the Bank and
:roduce corrective measures, as necessary. The Government should adopt
3grams, by second tranche release, for retraining unemployed workers,
cating job openings on a nation-wide basis to stimulate development of a
bor market and promoting the development of labor intensive SME's.



28
Management. Coordination and Monitorung
72.         The adjustment program would be managed under the general
coordination of the Federal Secretariat of Finance, which will be assisted
among others by the NBY, the Federal Socretariats for Development, for Trade,
and for Foreign Economic Relations. NBY will be responsible for the
coordination and monitoring of disbursement-related aspects. Semi-annual
reports on the implementation of all elements of the adjustment program would
be prepared by the Federal Secretariat of Finance and sent to the Bank.
Cooperation with Other Agencies and Major Creditors
73.         The DM  has been actively involved in Yugoslavia.  A two-year
standby arrangement for an amount equivalent to SDR 339 million was approved
in 1980 which was replaced by a three-year Standby arrangement in January 1981
for an amount of SDR 1,662 million. This was followed by a one-year Standby
arrangement for SDR 370 million in April 1984 and another in April 1985 for
SDR 300 million. An enhanced monitoring arrangement was agreed upon between
the IMF and the Government between May 1986 and May 1988.  Another IMF Standby
arratngement for SDR 306 million was approved in May 1988. and, as indicated
previously in this report, a new Standby for SDR 460 million was approved on
March 16, 1990. Cooperation between the Bank and the IMF has been close.
Staff have worked closely and jointly contributed substantially to the design
of the program supported by the Standby and the proposed SAL. Bank staff
participated in discussions of the IMF Standby and IMF staff were included in
the SAL appraisal mission.
74.         The Bank's main cofinancing partner in Yugoslavia is the European
Investment Bank (EIB). Areas of cooperation with EIB have focused on road and
rail transport and power transmission. The cooperation is very good, with
programming and technical consultations taking place on a regular basis. A
new area of cooperation is environmental protection, particularly along the
Adriatic, in line with the more general cooperation between the Bank and the
EIB in the context of the Environmental Programs for the Mediterranean. The
Japanese EXIM Bank is a more recent cofinancing partner . Having confirmed an
export promotion project with the Bank in 1988, the Japanese EXIM Bank has
expressed interest in several future projects in Yugoslavia, including
possibly SAL II or the FSAL.
75.         Yugoslavia has been engaged in a continuous dialogue with its
major creditors since the early 1980s. Two financial packages were completed
between 1983-85. The last refinancing agreement with its commercial creditors
was signed in September 1988. It involved the rescheduling of about $5
billion of maturing loans and the granting of e300 million of new money in the
form of a trade facility. In July 1988, Yugoslavia signed a $1 billion
rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club.



29
PAR?   -             ON
76.         I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recomend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
March 21, 1990
Washington, D.C.



APPENDIX 1
Pap 1 of 4
30L
YUOOSIVIA* KWl McRS00UUC INDICAtS
ACtu             Prot1.             Pr.JeChIm
Key IndleetorS               9w8      198      1989    190      991      1092    1993    198
....... ................................. ...... .........   ....    .....  ....    ..... ....    ..... ....    ........ ..... .....
IP Growt Rate                   '1.1    .2.0      0.8    -2.0       2.5     2.5      2.S      3.0
Go Growth R*to                  -0.9    -2.2      1.4    -1.9       2.5     2.9      2.8      3.2
NPwICatt Greow  Rate             l.7    -3.0      0.8    -2.5       1.8     2.2      2.1      2.5
Conm.mptlowlC4apt  Crwth Rto    -2.0    -5.9      0.8      0.1      1.3     1.8      1.8     2.3
Total o01 _1 (fn UUS           21813   1959    1116   1666?   17426    1249   1699   1"31
oC0/t0 v                       133.8   114.0    91.0    77.1    73.9    68.8    63.9    41.8
owlw                            31.4    34.2    29.9    28L4    28.2    26.6    24.9    23.?
Debt swvice tin USS )          259.0    232      3977    3949    4081    3S91    3148   M29
gebt s.rvice/iGS                26.1    13.6    20.7    18.3    17.0    14.3    11.9         8.6
ebs  ServfIeICIP,                6.2      4.1     6.8      6.7     6.5      5.5      4.6     4.3
tnt/eost/I                      11.9     8.2      9.3      8.0     7.6      6.5      5.8     3.3
Interest/SF                      2.8     2.5      3.1      2.9     2.9      2.5      2.3     2.0
Groms trwestmnt/SP              21.2    21.0    20.9    20.3    21.2    21.2    21.2    21.2
'==.tic Seving/U                23.6.   26.6    24.3    22.1    22.5    22.5    22.5    22.6
a t1w_  SsviuSw                 22.6    2W.3    24.3    22.2    22.5    22.7    22.9    23.
:rgit Rational Sav   Rate   27.5    25.3          2.1    37.      33.8    29.2   2V.3    25.7
export Growth at                 6.0    13.1      7.0      5.0     5.0      .;.0     4.0     3.0
Empstsl/UW                      26.3    31.4    33.3    35.7    36.6    37.5    38.0    38.8
Iq' Growth Rate                 .0.8     5.8    13.0    11.0       7.0      5.0     4.0      3.0
Iuports/CP                      28.5    26.5    29.7    33.r    35.1    36.0    36.5    37.2
Cswwet Accumut  Uin VIl)        1128    248      2002    1158      77    1000    lipl    Z222
carneM Aesmu/UP                  2.2    .4.4      34       2.0     1.3      1.5      I.?     2.0
RtmfWmm Cs, "O                                                               5* d?g*a          4*
1/ kW uastw.dinq ud disbirsad
V low   of_ 10 ps w  services.
* Pr= 10M  oavZd £aUn projeted to equall Nmfotuzin Unit Van (KOV) 4nd  of Ibrld Bnk.



APPENDIX 1
31                                         Page 2 of 4
YUGOSLAVIA- ALWANCE OF PAYMENTS
...............................
(US doltars  illion fn current prices)
Actual            Prelfe.              Projections
,................................................................................. ......  ........... .....................................
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993     1998
....     ....  .    ....    ....     ....       .       . ....   ........ ......... ..... . .. 
A.  Exports of t-Gtd S NFS        1ssa5    17870    19503    20990    22591    24314    25918    34658
1. Merchandise (P08)            1108l     12779    13947    15010    16155   17387    18534    24786
2. Nmn-Factor Services           4S01     S091    5S56       5980     6436      6927     738s     9874
S.   Izports of Goods & NFS       1433n    1508      1747    19873    21796    23458    25006    33438
1. Merchandise (P08)            13096    13329    15438    1756S    19264    20733    22102    29554
2. Mon-Factor Services           1276     1760     Z029      2308     2S31      2724     2904     3883
C.  Resource Balazie               1213     2781      2036     ill?      795       856      912      1220
0.  Net Factor tncome             -1769    -1797    -1537    -1463    -1511    -1359    -1234        *4-1
1. factor Receipts                185      190      251       270      282      263       314      68?
2. Factor Pay_nts                1934     1987      178      1732     179       1622     1S48      1127
E.  met Current Trasfers           1636      5        1503     1503     1503      1503     1503      1S03
1. Current Receipts              39S1     489      489       4893     4893     4893      4893     4a93
2. Curent Payments               2315     3390     3390      3390     33        3390     3390     3390
F.  Current Accousat Baiance       1100     248      2002      1158      78       1000     118l     2282
0.   Long-Term Capitat Inflt.    -1406       -29    -1509    -1256      -82        SS2      1n       -647
1. net LT Loan  (03 data)       -1188      -29    -1509    -1256      -ar       -S52      172     -647
a. ofsburemnts                113       896      45S       737     1165      1192     1203      960
b. Repayments                 2325      95       1964     1992     1992      1744     1375      160T
2. Other LT Inflo  (tnet)        -218      -         *    -        *-       *-  *-.
H.   Total Other Item  (net)       1943           --       -     -    -       --         -       -
1. net Short term Capital         350       -        -         -'
2. Capital Ftos 1.1.£1.             0      -         -        -         -        --
3. Error  and omssions           1593       .        ..       ..       ..        ..       ..        ..
t.   Chan   in Nt Reserves        -26                           177      265      -m        78 .  1910
1. Net Credit from the 1xf       -271      454    .225        275     -225      275       225      275
2. Other Reserv  Chn            -136      200       -493       98       40      -448    -1009    -1635
C- indtcates increae)
................................. ........................................................................ ,0 0----



32                          ~~~~~APPENDIX  1
32                                     Pa-ge 3 of4
YUGoSLAVIA- EXTERMAL CAPITAL AND DEST
Actual            Prelim.             Projections
1987     19t8     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1998
....     ....  .  ....              ....  .  ....     ....     ........ ......... ..... ..
A. Disbursements
................
1. IPublic & Publicly Guar. Lt     460      696      455      662      1090     1117     1128      885
Official Creditors            432      389      355      462       90O-  -_7         828      585
Multilateral                254      219      146      224      490       514      524      285
of which t8RD             204      1S5      108      169      416       440      449      210
Silateral                   178      170      208      238      301       303      303      300
Private Creditors             102      307      100      200      300       300      300      300
Suppliers                     0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
FinanciaL Markets           102      307      100      200      300      300       300      300
2. Private Mon-Guar. Lt              0      200        0       75        75       75       75       75
3. total Lt Diaburseemts           534      896      455      737     1165      1192     1203      960
4. Itt Purchase.                     0        0        0      500         0      500        0      500
5. Net Short-tenor  CapitaL        .65        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
6. Total inct. IMF & Not ST        469      896      4SS     1237      1165     1692     1203     1460
B. Repsynts
.............
1. Pubtic & Publicly Guar. Lt     1543      808      810     1003      1003     1043     1070     1532
Off icial Creditors           700      648      674      960      960       989      977      698.
uAltitateral                35S      485      424      443      443       436      431      386
of uhfch 133              340      40       402      416      416      407       396      335
Si tateral                  34S      163      251      51?      S1T      S52       546      312
Private Creditors             843      161      13S       43       43        54       92      834
Suppliers                     0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Financial Markets           843      112       93       31       31       43        83      826
2. Private Non-Guar. LT           1474      117     11S4      989      989       701      305       75
3. TotaL L? Repayments            3017      925     1964     1992      1992      744     1375     1607
4. IMF Repurchase*                 505        0      225      22       225       225      225      225
S. Total LT Repay.*INF Repur.    3522       925     2189     2217     2217      1969     1600     1832
C. Interest
1. Publc £ Publiely GusW. Lt       363      951     1195     124S     1301      1230     1219  !  914
offciatl Creditrs             457      S7       44"      516      534       498      477      354
Multilaterot               243      311      us       241      248       248      249      244
of dhich1R               22I      202      236      212      216      213       212      198
Bfltteral                  214       66      178      276      286      251       228      110
Private Creditors             S06      574      756      752      768       731      7143     S60
Suppliers                     0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0
Finanmiat markets           506      473      746      745      761      726       738      560
2. Private  anAGumt. Lt            762      4S0      404      296      302       220      135       29
3. Totat VL  Interest             1725     1401     1602     15J6      1603     1450     1354      943
4. IF Service Charge               168        0      105       87       109       91      113      103
5. Inteest on n Oebt                 0        0       81       81       S1        S1       81       81
6. Totat idnt. IMt & Not ST       1893     1401     1788     1732      173      1622     1S48     1127
......................................................... ...........................................................................



APPENDIX  I
Page 4 of 4
YMOSLAVIA EXTERNAL CAPtTAL AND OEBT (continued)
Actuat            Pretia.              Projoction
........................ ........................................................................   ...... ....... I.......................................
1987     1988     1989      19       191      1992      1993     1998
0.  xterml Odebt (00)
......................
1. Public & Publicly  uer. LT    142.8   13948    1338.   13174    14083    1425T    14422    11479
Official Creditors            7625     6670     633S      5891     6499      6360     6248     524
Multilateral               283a     2990     2689      2470     2830     2908      3001     3028
of which tORO           2662      2720     2426      2179     2482     2514      2568     2429
ailateral                   478?     3M60     36        34       3669     3452      3248   Z216
Private Creditors             6623     7278       049      M4      754       7898     814      6235
SU1ptIeP*                      0        0        0         a        0        0    --0*          0
Financial Markets          6623      7124     6975      7222     7522     73.       8133     6235
2. Private Mon-ar. LT              435     3184      2030     1116     1191       56S      335      375
3. total Long-Tren OW             18605    17132    15414    14290    15274    14822    14157    11854
4. IMF Credit                      153       1311     108      1361     1136      1411     1186      1561
5. Short-Tem Oebt                  1645     1016      1016     1016     101s      1016     1016      1016
6. total inal. tIF & Not St       21813    19459    17516    1666?    17426    17249    16959    t431
Percent of Total LT KlDs
1. On Coersalonal Te                  9      6.4       7.4      8.0      8.1       8.2      8.1      9.4
2. With Variable  ntg. Rates         61     61.1 N   5.9    S5.8        57.4     57.1      57.7     55.8
E. Sank and IOA Ratios
Shwre of total LT 0M (0.3)
1. IR  as X of Total               14.3     15.9      15.7     15.2     16.2      17.0     17.4     20.5
2. IDA as X of totat                  0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. IS0,0IA a  IL of Total          14.3     15.9      1.7      15.2     16.2      17.0     17.4      20.5
Share of Lt Debt Serv (5.30C.3)
1. 1M0 as X of Totat               12.0     32.0      17.9     17.6     17.6      19.4     22.3     20.9
2. IDA as 2 of Total                  0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
3. IU84010A a S of Total           12.0     32.0      17.9     17.6     17.6      19.4     22.3     20.9
F. 00-to-Exports Ratios (a)
... .........................
1. LOngTerTm Debt/Imports           117     74.6     62.5      S4.6     55.0      50.3     47.4     29.5
2. IMf Creddtj/ExWpt                 10      5J        4.4      5.2      4.1       4.8      3.8      3.9
3. Short-Term Oebt/Exports           10      4.4       4.1      3.9      : 7       3.4      3.3      2.5
4. LTINF*$T S Wt/Imports            138     84.8      '1.1     63.7     62.8      s8.5     54.5     35.9
0. DOO-to-GWP Ratios
....................
1. LonW Tti0 et/SOP                  27       30       26        24       25       23        22       13
2. tNFCredit/P                        2        2         2        2        2         2        2         2
3.  _Ot-TeruOdaI                      2        2         2        a        2         2        1         1
4. LtItf't OO1/W                     31       34        30       28       2B        27       25        16
N. DObt Savice/imrtS (a)
.............. ................... 
1I  Pubtfc & PubMc cly Ouw. LT     15.8      7.7      6.1       8.?      8.3       7.?      7.4      6.1
2. Private 4  n-uw. LT             14.1      2.5      6.3       4.9      4.6       3.1      1.4      0.3
3. totat LT Debt Setvice           29.9     10.1      14.5     13.6     12.9      10.8      8.8      6.3
4. IPf Repsrchoses.Srv.Chge.        4.2      0.0       1.3      1.2      1.2       1.1      1.1      0.8
S. Interest onty an ST Debt         0.0      0.0      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3      0.2
6. Total (Lt.MF.ST tnt.)           34.1     10.1      U.1      15.1     14.4      12.2     10.1       7.4
1. tnterest Surdmn Ratios
1. Total intert/GWP                 2.S      2.5      3.1       2.9      2.9       2.5      2.3      1.3
2. total Interet/Ixports (a)       10.9      6.1      7.3       6.6      6.5       5.5      5.0      2.8
(a) Ratio to ifxports' with latter defined to include moandwse emports nd receipts frar
non- factor sevices, faetor services,  d wnrers reittances.



34
A P PEND IX TII
Letter of Develeumnnt Police
Dear Mr. President:
1.    The Government is committed to a sustained restructuring of the economy
and to integrating it into the world economy. It is establishing and
developing an integrated market within Yugoslavia based on free market
principles. The basic determinants as well as the operational procedures of
the reform efforts have been set out by the Federal Government in its Program
for Economic Reforms and Measures for its Imnlementation in 1990 (PER) and its
subsequent policy reviews. This Program is expected to be supported by the
World Bank (the "Bank") in the form of fast disbursing and conventional
project loans over the medium term.
2.    The impetus for this reform endeavor stems from the worsening economic
situation. During the 1980s, the Yugoslav economy stagnated while
macroeconomic imbalances (particularly quasi-fiscal deficits and inflation)
increased. Investment resources were often not efficiently allocated and
utilized because of deficiencies in the economic structure and the policy
environment. Since 1988, the Government has introduced major reforms in order
to redress these problems. Substantial progress has been made in the areas of
foreign trade, foreign exchange, price and financial intermediation and should
permit a better allocation of scarce resources. Structural and other macro-
and micro-economic measures have been enacted and supported by a Standby
arrangements with the IMF to combat inflation, improve the productive
efficiency of the economy, and increase the supply response.
3.    An important part of the current PER is centered on a very restrictive
credit and monetary policy and the effort to rationalize all forms of public
consumption. This is in recognition that the high inflationary momentum
reflects not only the lack of competition and financial discipline of banks
and enterprises but also the accommodating policy of the fiscal and monetary
authorities in the past. For this reason, the Government is committed to
creating adequate fiscal and monetary instruments for the conduct of economic
policy at the federal level. We intend to introduce a single tax on income
and profits and a value added tax in order to simplify and harmonize the tax
system. Laws and Social Compacts on taxation have been adopted by the Federal
and RAP assemblies for this purpose. To strengthen the effectiveness of
monetary policy the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) has been empowered all
the traditional authorities of a central bank. Moreover, the financial system
is to undergo a comprehensive restructuring which should result in more
efficient and responsive financial intermediation.



35
4.    The Government firmly believes that the root problems of inflation and
slow growth of our economy will not be properly addressed without fundamental,
structural reform of our economy. The core of our PER is therefore to
undertake reforms in real sectors of the economy to establish a market-
oriented, competitive economy. The Federal Government has initiated legal and
institutional reforms in the wide range of fields such as ownership structure
and property rights; labor relations and labor markets; capital ownership and
capital markets; the self-management system; foreign investment and several
other spheres.
*         5.    The implementation of the PER will take 4-5 years and will be based on
new laws which are already adopted or which are being legislated. The
programs will also emphasize the use of newer technologies and pay due regard
- -        to environmental protection.  In addition, the Government has initiated
measures to promote the establishment of small and medium scale enterprises,
to restructure existing enterprises. The Government is, however, aware that
the adjustment efforts will involve temporary imbalances on the labor market.
In order to minimize these adjustment costs, the Government is preparing a
package dealing with unemployment benefits and retraining programs. We would
expect the second Structural Adjustment Loan requested by this letter to
support some of the key reform measures listed above.
Demand 1(anafement Policies
6.    The Government has implemented a rapid disinflation program which is
consistent with the aim of reviving the economic growth in the near term. In
particular, the Government is implementing a very restrictive monetary policy
and pursue a strong fiscal effort to overcome large open and hidden fiscal
deficits and larger deficits in the banking and enterprise sectors. To this
end, tax increases and expenditure cuts amounting to 5X of GDP have been
enacted. Financial discipline will be tightened through strict enforcement of
new accounting and financial standards. A stable nominal exchange rate and
limitations on nominal wage distributions and price increases for certain
products and services will also be adopted. The former is accomplished by
pegging a new dinar exchange rate so that Din 7 equals 1 D.M. The latter will
be implemented by fixing some Retail Prices at current levels for a period of
six months. To support the domestic economy, we intend to increase
substantially imports from the convertible currency areas.
7.    Strict Monetary control will be enforced as a result of the new Central
Bank (NBY) Law which removes all impediments to using the available monetary
instruments by NBY and recognizes a more accurate and realistic definition of
monetary aggregates and targets.  Lentiing in a form of rediscounts on
selective credits was phased out at the end of 1989. The subsidies provided
by such credits from the past will be financed by fiscal revenues. NBY will
no longer accept as a liability any net increase of the value of foreign
currency deposits placed with the commercial banks, and the valuation
differential from the previous deposits will be covered by Federal government
debt. All legal provisions-entitling ,the Federal Government to automatic
access to NBY credit have been abolished, and NBY may only approve short-term
credits to the Federation at the request of the FEC and such agreement should
be signed by the Federal Secretary for Finance and the Governor of the NBY.



36
The key target for the monetary management will be a ceiling on the net
domestic assets (NDA) of *he NBY, defined to include the revaluation effects
of foreign currency deposits redeposited at the NBY. To achieve its
objectives, the NBY will be free to make active use of monetary instruments at
its disposal (interbank money market, discount rate, reserve requirements).
Domestic interest rates for deposits and lending will be freely set by the
demand and supply condition in the market. To support the objectives of rapid
disinflation, the nominal exchange rate has been fixed at new Dinar 7 per
German Mark and access to the exchange market has been approved for
individuals. Also, maximum limits on claims repayable to Yugoslavia in
nonconvertible currencies have been established. It is expected that the new
exchange rate will enable all bona fide demand arising in the daily interbank
market for foreign exchange to be met without jeopardizing the projected
strengthening of the foreign exchange reserves of the banking system.
8.    Our fiscal .1ol.j  in the disinflation program will reverse the current
deficit situation into an overall surplus for the public sector in 1990. To
achieve this objective, a number of measures have been adopted. Federal
extra-budgetary special accounts have been integrated into the budget. It is
expected that other Government levels will follow. All quasi-fiscal
operations carried out previously by the NBY have been incorporated into the
Federal budget. Outstanding debt of the public sector has been consolidated
and legislation passed to prohibit public sector agencies from borrowing
domestically for the duration of the program. Furthermore, to increase the
expenditures of the public sector in order to meet the new obligations from
covering NBY losses and subsidies, as well as contributions to the programs
for restructuring banks and enterprises and for alleviating social cost of
adjustment, other expenditure cuts were made and revenue enhancing measures
adopted including a new turnover tax of 3X, increased custom tariff rates, and
other revenue increasing measures by the RAP governments. Our estimate is
that these measures will provide resources equal to 51 of GDP, or an amount
which we feel is sufficient to maintain the integrity of our monetary policy.
9.    The objective of our incmes poli= is to achieve a realistic level for
wage distribution. To this end, we have introduced a law temporarily
constraining increases in nominal wages. However, we firmly believe that
market forces should be allowed to determine the level of gross personal
income of workers in the medium and long term. Thus we intend to introduce a
system of collective bargaining upon the expiration of the program which would
reflect the concept that capital is an integral part of the cost of
production. We explicitly recognize that higher output should be recognized
on an individual level in the new wage determination level.
10.   In the area of improving financial discipline and accountability, we
realize that the fundamental cause of inflation in Yugoslavia is the existence
of years of operating deficits in enterprises in important sectors of the
economy which have been ultimately financed by the monetary expansion of the
NBY. Our strategy is to improve legislation and implementation so that banks
and enterp.ises are forced to operate on more sound financial and economic
principles. Thus, a new Accounting Law prevents distortion of enterprises'
accounts through proper evaluation of inventories and an adequate provision
for depreciation and non-performing assets. The new Law on Financial



37
Operations more clearly defines the triggering of the application of the Law
on Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy and also severely limits wage distributions
in loss-making enterprises. In addition, banks will be reconstituted with
adequate capital in the course of 1990 in order that they may be relicensed,
regulated and supervised by the newly empowered NBY.
Structural Reform Measures
Foreign Exchange Allocation
11.   The Government has taken several steps to improve the efficiency of
foreign exchange allocation. A unified foreign exchange market in which
enterprises may purchase foreign exchange through their representative banks
-has been in operation since May 29, 1988. The Law on Foreign Exchange
Operations, adopted in June 1989, further permits all private as well as small
enterprises to purchase foreign exchange for machinery and input needs in
their operations. A flexible exchange rate policy has been pursued with due
consideration for the foreign exchange reserve situation and price
competitiveness of Yugoslav exports.   The Dinar is now convertible in current
transactions and our ultimate objective in this area is to achieve full
convertibility. As part of the disinflation program, the new Dinar is now
pegged to the German Mark at the ratio of 7:1 for the duration of the
disinflation program. Should inflation go beyond expectations and cause
excessive Dinar appreciation, we will review the appropriateness of this
exchange rate and make necessary adjustments. Starting December 31, 1989,
individuals can also freely purchase foreign exchange from the official
banking system and can be registered for foreign trade, therefore making the
Dinar partially convertible and the import regime freer. We will not resort
to any administrative control of foreign exchange demand in the process of
import liberalization. Semi-annual reviews of the functioning of the foreign
exchange market will be conducted with the IMF and the Bank (Annex A).
Trade Liberalization
12.   The liberalization of imports is an important means for generating
competitive pressures within the economy and for achieving an efficient
domestic structure of production. Our objective is to increase the ability of
the Yugoslav economy to compete vigorously in world markets, and to provide
competitively priced goods domestically, notably by progressively reducing the
level of protection that some industries now enjoy. Import liberalization is
also an important instrument for keeping inflation under control. We have
continued the pace of import liberalization begun in May 1988 by shifting
commodities now on the quota (K), license (D) to the free import list (LB).
The category of conditionally free imports (LBO) was discontinued completely
as of September 1989. As of February 1990, 87% of imports by import weight
are free of control. The reform of the K quotas, measured according to
production coverage, will be achieved by shifting them to the free import
list, as set out in Table 1 in Annex B. The production coverage of items in
the K category has been provided to the Bank in order to permit a more
detailed review of the implications of the trade reform program. Essentially,
the existing coverage of the K category is to be halved by July 1991 (Annex



38
Pricing Reform
13.   An important element of Yugoslav reforms is the liberalization of prices
so that they are determined by free markets. Our program of price reform
began in May 1988 and is now nearly completed. As of January 1, 1990, 751 of
industrial producer prices are freely formed. Another 251, mainly in the
areas of infrastructure and public utilities, are formed by a revised, more
market oriented "common and market criteria3 approach. As part of the
disinflation program, some prices have been temporarily frozen for six months.
This price control is necessary for breaking the inflation momentum and for
lending credibility to the program. Upon the expiration of the program,
prices will again be freed. Various entities, will be free to set their
prices in line with the common and market criteria methodology. Railway
tariffs will be adjusted quarterly in line with an operating ratio of not more
than 110 maintained from 1991 onwards in accordance with our agreement with
the Bank under the Seventh Railway Project (Ln. 3068-YU). The Government will
monitor the reduction of price controls, by reviewing analyses and reports by
the competent Federal authorities (Annex C).
Financial Discipline
14.   The current economic crisis is, to a large extent, the result of
financial indiscipline that permeates in the economy. We have been
continuously working over the past months to improve this situation. The Law
on Financial Operations, adopted in February 1989 and further amended recently
to strengthen its content, defines clearly the mechanisms for initiating
bankruptcy procedures. The most important provisions are as follows: an
enterprise which is illiquid for 60 days or which has uncovered losses
exceeding 501 of its capital will be subject to rehabilitation and bankruptcy
procedures immediately; priority of payment in enterprises is also to be
changed so that payment of personal incomes occurs only after settlement of
financial obligations on trade in goods and services and credits; and
intra-enterprise credits have been limited through prohibition of the issuing
of promissory notes by enterprises for the purpose of settlement of bills.
The tightening-up of financial discipline will also be enhanced through the
Law on the Accounting System, enacted in March 1989 and recently further
revised, which requires enterprises to write-off completely any claim overdue
by more than 60 days. Losses of enterprises must also now be written-off
against their business funds and reserves and strict limits on revaluation
procedures are to be applied on enterprises' inventories and financial claims.
This legislation also simplified the accounting procedures and moved the
accounting practices in Yugoslavia more closely towards international
standards, to ensure clarity and transparency of accounts, improve management
information systems, and enhance accountability in the use of resources by
managers.



39
15.  A new Law on the Social Accounting Service (SDK) has been prepared and
will soon be passed. The Law aims at ensuring a unified functioning of the
Service in the entire territory of SFRY and to enhance SDK's capability in
implementing the adopted laws. Furthermore, the government will develop the
legal environment and implement a medium term program to develop separate
institutions and professional capacity for accounting and auditing practices.
16.   To address the issue of financial losses, the Government intends to
focus on the deficits resulting from the operations of major problem
enterprises, and the need to enforce financial discipline in these enterprises
through appropriate rehabilitation and/or liquidation procedures. We will
*      consult with the Bank on developing the legal and institutional framework and
implementing the restructuring program. As an initial step, we have submitted
to the Bank the relevant information on a list of twenty major problem
enterprises in the format contained in Annex D. To avoid the consequences of
monetization of some inevitable losses, subsidies by the banking system to the
economy will be substituted by direct budgetary transfers of resources, as
agreed under the Standby Agreement with the IMF.
17.   In the financial intermediation area, the recently adopted NBY and
Banking Laws will help enforce tight financial discipline in banking
operations. Under these laws, NBY has been given the power to issue and
withdraw licenses for the establishment and operation of a bank, and explicit
responsibility for prudential supervision and regulation of banks. NBY will
also have the authority to require changes in management, and force changes in
the operational plans of commercial banks. Limits have been placed on the
size of a single loan in relation to a bank's capital, and on the total
exposure for a bank to any single customer. A minimum capital requirement for
a bank is now specified. Measures on maintaining bank liquidity and on
initiation of bankruptcy procedures have been significantly tightened. NBY
has also now prepared a more complete set of prudential regulations to govern
bank operations, bank licensing, and the handling of bank failures.
Investment Allocation
18.  We are now radically changing our approach to investment planning and
allocation. We will now rely on an indicative approach, based on market
criteria, to allocate investment resources. We expect many of the measures
outlined in this letter to result in more market-oriented, export-driven, and
technologically appropriate inestment decisions by firms and commercial
banks. The widespread application of the uniform methodology for investment
selection since February 1988 is significantly reinforcing this process. To
ensure the effective application of this methodology, the Yugoslav Bankers'
Association (YBA) established in March 1989 a monitoring mechanism which will
monitor the application of the methodology. The result of this monitoring
would be reviewed jointly with the Bank using reports prepared by YBA (Annex
E).
19.   In major infrastructure sectors, involving investments in large,
country-wide systems, markets alone cannot be expected to generate the best
investment decisions. For such investments, a method is being developed, to
insure coordinated development within the sectors. We will provide



40
appropriate background information on our national investment programs in the
transport and power sectors as a basis for conducting regular reviews with the
Bank, with the first such review being carried-out prior to the second tranche
review. These reviews will be carried out in a format similar to that
currently used in the investment reviews conducted Jointly between designated
Yugoslav authorities and the Bank as appropriately modified.
Facilitating Supply Response
20.   Facilitating a greater supply response of the economy is essential to
the fight against inflation and economic stagnation. It requires both
substantial improvement in the legal environment, and effective implementation
of the reform. The process of improving the legal environment is an ongoing
one and involves both amending laws already passed and enacted. Thus, the
laws on enterprises, labor relations, banking, foreign investment and
financial cperations which were recently passed by the Assembly may again be
strengthened. In addition, a new law on Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy has
been enacted along with other new laws, the most important of which are the
laws on property and ownership, and uniform taxation. The new legal framework
is being designed to provide a foundation for the effective operation of a
market-oriented economy.
21. The Government recognizes that, while establishing a new legal framework
is a necessary and crucial step in the reform process, strong and effective
implementation is essential to improving the supply response. The focus of
implementation of the laws will be the enterprise and financial sectors which
are seen by the government as being most crucial for enhancing the supply
response of the economy. As a result, it is our intention to carry out
effective implementation programs in the financial and enterprise sectors to
ensure that the intended transformation occurs in the next 3-5 years. We will
consult with the Bank on the establisbment of these programs. With respect to
the enterprise sector, these programs will address both the restructuring/
rehabilitation needs of existing enterprises as well as facilitating the
establishment of new, mainly small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) with a
more appropriate technological and export orientation. Concerning the
financial sector, the improvement of financial discipline and better
allocation of credits require implementation of significant reforms and
establishment of more effective institutional setup. The reform process will
recognize the importance of using international financial procedures and
standards, of improving management and increasing competition between domestic
banks, and of ensuring appropriate regulation and supervision by NBY.



- 41
Reform of the Enterprise Sector
(i) Legal Framework
22.   The new Law on Enterorises has created conditions for free operation of
market forces. The law allows the creation of different forms of enterprises
which are free to pursue their own business and development policies.
Considerable freedom has been left to the economic entity to formulate
economic relations independently, without the influence of the socio-political
community. The enterprise is defined as the principal agent of market
operation. With regard to business operations and responsibilities, all
enterprises enjoy the same position in the market, irrespective of the form of
ownership.  In addition, the amount of invested resources provides the basis
for the management of the enterprise.
23.   Several important amendments to the Law have been adopted aiming at
accelerating the process of transforming socially owned resources into social
capital. These amendments permit more efficient use of capital and easier
transformation of one organizational form into another. An important
amendment enables socially owned enterprises to adopt forms of organization,
up to now envisaged only for mixed, private and cooperative enterprises, e.g.
shareholding and limited liability companies. Another amendment will allow
enterprises to form holding companies. Equally important, some provisions of
the Law which pertain to the social protection of self-management rights have
been deleted. Finally, it is proposed to apply the Enterprise Law to those
organizations in the domain of social services. This should substantially
increase competition in those sectors.
24.   The new Law on Foreign Investment allows mixed companies as well as
other forms of cooperation with foreign investors. All foreign residents
wishing to do business in Yugoslavia enjoy the same treatment as Yugoslavia
nationals including the right to establish their own enterprises. The areas
in which foreign persons may invest have been expanded to all economic
activities and social services which are not expressly forbidden. The number
of agents who can conclude joint venture contracts has been increased and
protection of rights of foreign investors has been extended and clearly
defined. Provision has been made for debt equity swaps and new tariff and tax
incentives are envisaged. Foreign investors will be able to share in managing
enterprises in proportion to the funds imnested. The free remittance of
profits abroad is permitted. Agreements on the protection of investments have
been signed with a number of countries, and further bilateral agreements are
being prepared actively.
(ii) Imolementation
25.   In order to stimulate new enterprises, we must further articulate our
structural and institutional proposals for enabling easy entry into the sector
of new efficient enterprises, in particular SMEs. We expeat that the
liberalization of prices, foreign exchange allocation, and trade regime will
remove distortions that bias against the use of modern technologies.
Furthermore, we recognize the possibility that there might be constraints to
development of new, small- and medium-size enterprises, and in particular that



42
their access to credit may, at first, be limited. We will prepare, in
consultation with the Bank, a program including adequate institutional
arrangements which will encourage the formation and further facilitate the
development of such enterprises.
26.   We also appreciate the potential magnitude and difficulty of the task of
restructuring and rehabilitating loss making enterprises.  In the past the
Government has largely been uninvolved in the rehabilitation and bankru-utcv
process. But the need for action for some of our largest loss ma;ers.
enterprises has now become acute. We, therefore, have recognized the
Government's responsibility and the need to ensure the establishment of
adequate institutional mechanisms and other measures to carry out the
rehabilitation of those enterprises. We also expect to use international
expertise in designing and implementing this program. In doing this, we
recognize the role which the newly licensed banks and the governments and
courts at the RAP and local levels will play.
Reform of the Financial Sector
(i) Legal Framework
27.   The Law-on the National Bank of Yugoslavia was adopted in June 1989 ir.
order :o strengthen the authority and autonomy of NBY. NBY will assume all of
the attribtutes of a true central bank, particularly in the areas of monetary
control aTd supervision of commercial banks.  The Law strengthens NBY's
regulatic L and supervision functions and empowers it alone to issue and
withdraw bank licenses. Subsequently adopted laws on financing of the
Federation and selective credits of NBY further liberate the NBY from the
previously existing elements constraining its effectiveness.
28.   The Banking Law and its amendments have made important strides in
launching banking reform. Among the most important of these steps are: the
confirmation of banks as profit seeking business entities which can
independently set interest rates and charges on credits and deposits; the
provision for a potentially major diversification of bank ownership by the
opening up of equity investment in banks to a range of parties other than the
original enterprise founders; and the removal of major structural impediments
to the spurring of competition and to the evolution toward a national focus
within the financial system, including (i) the dismantling of the three-tier
banking structure of internal, basic, and associated banks; (ii) the removal
of restriction which tied accounts of enterprise to a single bank; (iii)
eliminating any monopoly practices in the banking system; (iv) the
institutions of a more flexible framework for the emergence of saving banks
and other financial organizations; and (v) the opening up of the system to
foreign investment.
29.   We have also worked out the legal framework for establishing well
functioning money and capital markets and have begun to operate the mone-
market. A money market put into operation in November 1989, intermediates the
circulation of money and short term government and bank securities. Later,
use of this market will be extended to pension and insurance organizations.
We will continue to improve the market to correct existing weaknesses and make



43
use of international experiences and expertise. In addition, intensive
preparations for establishing a capital market are now under way. To this end
we have already conducted preliminary talks with the Bank, the IFC and the
IMF, with a view to drawing on their experiences in that area.
(ii) Implementation
30.   Restructurinf the Financial System is a crucial element in improving the
supply response of the economy. The recently approved NBY Law and the Law on
Banks and other Financial Organizations establishes that institution as the
primary influence over the restructuring of the banking system as well as for
regulating, supervising, licensing and delicensing of banks after the
restructuring process is completed. To carry out effectively and eff'ciently
the restructuring process, we have agreed to establish a Federal Bank -
Restructuring Agency with sufficient authority and financing sources. The Law
on Bank Bankruptcy and Liquidation of Banks has been adopted. We also expect
to use international expertise in designing and implementi.ng the restructuring
program. International accounting and auditing principles and procedures are
to be applied in order that a meaningful program be exercised. It is expected
that the restructuring will involve a massive exercise in the revaluation of
bank balance sheets, including an assessment of bank loan portfolios, and
contingent commitments, and profit potential after restructuring. This is to
be completed in the first half of 1990 and should indicate in great detail the
extent of the problems in the banking sector. The entire process of the
banking sector reform should be completed in the next few years. We intend to
review regularly and closely the banking restructuring program with the Bank.
Labor Mobility
31.   Improvement in labor mobility will be an important factor to support the
development of an efficient and competitive productive sector. The
implementation of the Program of Economic Reforms and Measures will, in the
short run, result in surpluses of labor due to technological and other
economic factors. So as to prevent this from jeopardizing the implementation
of the Program, a new Law on Basic Rights Stemming From Labor Relationships
has been passed which, inter alia, allows management freely to hire labor,
second it to other posts within the enterprise or fire it if it is
technologically redundant, while observing the legally stipulated rights of
these workers. Under this law the right to permanent employment depends on
the business results of the enterprise, and the law enjoys the support of the
Trade Union Confederation of Yugoslavia. Also, federal, republican and
provincial regulations have been adopted on financing compensation to workers
during their unemployment, as well as the exercise of other rights of workers
in cases when they are laid off d-...e to technological and other advancements.
Social Costs of Adiustment
32.   The Government recognizes that a major cost of the overall program, in
the short run, is likely to be increased unemployment and/or reduced wages.
The Government is also fully aware that the reform program could be undermined
if serious efforts are not made to ensure that unemployment, arising from
necessary retrenchment, is only transitional. To deal with the issue, a



44
special Federal working group was set up in mid 1989 to review the likely
consequences of reform measures and propose policy options. As a result of
this, Federal and RAP legislations have been drafted and passed to ensure
minimum coverage for those affected. An institutional framework has been
established for the effective delivery of assistance, and financing sources
identified to provide $400 million for 1990 of which $150 million will be
provided by Federal sources. To minimize the loss of productive capacity of
labor, we have stressed the importance of and taken measures in strengthening
the training and retraining aspects in our programs. In the longer term, we
expect that the problems of surplus labor will be solved mainly by actively
promoting the development of SMEs. In this connection the Government will be
expecting financial and technical support from the World Bank for projects for
the promotion of small- and medium-size enterprises.
Macroeconomic Framework and Economic Polico Coordination
33.   Our development strategy has three basic objectives: containment of
inflation; improved and sustained economic growth, led by a strong growth of
exports; and improvement in external creditworthiness. The proposed
stabilization and structural adjustment measures we have outlined above are in
support of these objectives. Their successful implementation requires both
the development of a realistic medium-term macroeconomic framework and careful
monitoring and coordination of economic policies. While a complete
medium-term framework will be developed in the context of our next five-year
planning exercise to be completed in mid-1990, we have, in collaboration with
the Bank and IMF, developed an indicative set of targets and projections for
key macroeconomic variables that are consistent with our development strategy
(Annex F, Table/l). These will guide the broad targets for our stabilization
and structural adjustment programs. We will use data generated according to
Annex F, Tables 1 and 2 to monitor progress towards achieving these targets,
to assess the performance of the economy, to revise and implement changes in
policy and to adjust the macroeconomic framework as necessary. We will
annually review with the Bank the results of our assessment and their
implications for policy.
34.   Coordination of macroeconomic policies will, in the appropriate fashion,
continue to be performed by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) through the
various branches of the FEC including, among others, the Federal Secretariat
for Development, the Federal Secretariat for Finance, the Federal Secretariat
for Foreign Economic Relations, the Federal Secretariat for Trade, and the
National Bank of Yugoslavia. The trends shown by indicators (Annex F, Table
2) plus progress towards the medium-term macroeconomic targets will serve as
the basis for analyzing and correcting the process of macroeconfmtI7 -policy
implementation.
35.   We intend to continue implementation of the various macroeconomic
policies and measures for structural adjustment that are stated in thi s
letter. In consultation with the Bank, we will adjust these policies as
needed to enable Yugoslavia's economy to achieve macroeconomic stability, and
efficient and sustained growth. The process of structural adjustment will be
a long one, but we are determined to successfully carry it out.  Our efforts



45
will be facilitated to a large extent if the Bank continues its support to our
development program including support for technical assistance in several
areas. An essential step in this support would be positive and rapid response
to our request a second structural adjustment loan and a financial structural
adjustment loan followed by a third structural adjustment loan for promoting
fiscal reform in Yugoslavia.
Sincerely,
.
/5/ Branimir Zeka
Federal Secretary for Finance
/S/ Bozo Marelndic
Federal Secretary for Finance
Date: March 11. 1990
Belgrade, Yugoslavia



46
ANNEX A OF LDP
Page 1 of 1
YUGOSLAVIA
STRUC3AL ADJUSTMENQT LOAN
AGREED-UPON INFORMATION ON THE IMAM  Ma
FOR MONTHLY TRANSMITL TO THE IMF AND THE IBRD
1.   Table l:   The nominal and real effective-exchange rate of the Yugoslav
Dinar, with the latter calculated on the basis of the Retail Price Index.
2.    Table 2:  Foreign exchange operations in the Interbank meetings of the
foreign exchange market as of the first of every month and cumulative total
from the beginning of year.
3.    NBY circulars detailing new administrative regulations or modus
operandi, for commercial banks, pertaining to the allocation of foreign
exchange (as and when issued).



47
ANMNE B OF LDP
Page 1 of 1
YrUGOSIL I
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TRADE LIBERALIZATION PROGRAM
The liberalization of the K quota category will be undertaken with respect to
production coverage as outlined in Table 1. To better understand the import
liberalizatiun7Fwe-ill prepare information on which goods have moved across
the K category and the value in terms of production coverage.
Table 1: TRADE LIBERALIZATION TARGETS FOR K CATEGORY 1/
(Cumulative Reduction of Production Coverage
by K Category from January 1, 1988)
(Percent)
July  Jan.   July   July
1989   1990   1990   1991
12.5   25.0   30.0   50.0
1/ Production coverage by the K category is currently 36%. This would
decline to 181 when the July 1991 target is achieved.



48
ANNEX C OF LDP
Page 1 of 1
YUGOSLAI
SM&Y-CEM"A  A=JSTEn=  LOAN
Monitoring Price Dave lonments
The Government will monitor its price liberalization measures
through the Federal Bureau of Prices in the Industrial Producer Prices as set
out below.
a.    Prices in the Industrial Producer Prige Index (IPPI
(i) Table 1 specifies the actual extent of price control as of December
1989 before the imposition of a temporary price freeze. This represents the
minimum amount of decontrol to be returned to after the temporary price freeze
to reduce inflationary expectations.
lable 1: PRICE DECONTROL PROGRAM FOR IPPI
(in terms of production weights)
(Actual)
December 1989
1.  Freely Formed                    75X
2.  Administered by Government       25X
(ii) The Government will update Table 1 quarterly beginning July 1,
1990 to demonstrate that no reimposition of price controls occurs.
b.    Railway and KergZ Tariffs
(M)     The Bank would be notified on a quarterly basis, staz ing
July 1, 1990, of the administered prices for electricity, coal, crude oil and
natural gas, oil derivatives, and railway tariffs.
(ii)     The Government will take all measures as necessary on its
part to ensure that financial analyses will be provided to the Bank in a
timely manner to demonstrate that the pricing strategies followed by the
railway and power entities are appropriate.



49
ANNEX D OF LDP
Page 1 of 4
YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTMAL ADJUSTMNT LOAN
Table 1; FORMAT FOR REPORTING ON THE TWENTY LARGEST LOSS-MAKING ENTERPRISES
IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
TotaL       Ueoved
Nam            Loation       Eploy.t          LOSS         Losses
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
1/ Base year data, as of December 31, 1989, against which the program for
loss reducticns is to be monitorsd as a second tranche condition, are
to be provided in the above formats as soon as year-end accounts are
available but not later than June 30, 1990.



50
AE  A OE LDP
Page 2 of 4
YUGSLAVI6
STRUCT1ADJUST LOANX
Table-2: FORMAT FOR REPORTING ON THE LARGEST ENTERPRISE DEBTORS 1/
LMgot.      Debt to
Locatin   Indutsy    IP1u    Ld           Last Laidex
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
1S.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
1/ Base year data, as of December 31, 1989, against which the program for
loss reductions is to be monitored as a second tranche condition, are
to be provided in the above formats as soon as year-end accounts are
available but not later than June 30, 1990.



51
ANNEX D OF LDP
Page 3 of 4
YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LON
'Table 3:  INCOME STATEMENT FOR EACH ENTERPRISE IN TABLE 1 1/
1987    1988*   1989*
1.    Revenues from sales
2.    Operating expenses
Materials
Depreciation
Salaries
Other
3.    Operating income
4.    Interest receivable
i) real interest
ii) revaluation interest
5.    Interest payable
i) real interest
ii) revaluation interest
6.    Other net income
7.    Tax and contributions
8.    Net income or loss
9.    External Grants for coverage of loss
10.   Appropriation of net income and grants
a) collective consumption fund
b) business fund
c) reserve fund
d) other
1/ Base year data, as of December 31, 1989, against which the program for
loss reductions is to be monitored as a second tranche condition, are
to be provided in the above formats as soon as year-end accounts are
available but not later than June 30, 1990.
* 1988 and 1989 accounts, according to new Accounting Law.



52
ANNEX D OF LDP
Page 4 of 4
YUGQSLAVI
STRUCTURA    Al%=T   LOAN
Table 3: BALANCE SHEET FOR EACH ENTERPRISE IN TABLE 1
1987    1988*   1989*
1.    Current assets
Inventories
Accounts receivable
Other current assets
2.    Gross fixed assets
Less: accumulated depreciation
Net fixed assets
Construction in progress
3.    Other assets
4.    TOTAL ASSETS
1.    Current Liabilities
Short-term loans -domestic
Short-term loans -foreign
Accounts payable
Current portion of long-term debt
Other
2.    Long-term debt    -domestic
Long-term debt    -foreign
Less: current portion
Net long-term debt
3.    Other long-term liabilities
4.    Equity
Business fund
Reserve fund
5.    Other
6.    TOTAL LIABILITIES
1/ Base year data, as of December 31, 1989, against which the program for
loss reductions is to be monitored as a second tranche condition, are
to be provided in the above formats as soon as year-end accounts are
available but not later than June 30, 1990.
* 1988 and 1989 accounts, according to new Accounting Law.



53
AM lEI  OF LDP
Page 1 of 1
,STRUCTMtAL ADJUS2=,QA
TQN QURNG INESTMT
1.    Each quarter, YBA will monitor the progress of investments appraised
under the uniform methodology. Semi-annual reports are to be prepared by YBA
recording the number of applications and documenting the methodology and
criteria used. By August 31, 1990, the Bank, together with YBA will review
progress to date in the selection and approval of investments. This progress
review will pay particular attention to:
(i) the number, size, and sectoral composition of all investments
appraised, under the Uniform Methodology;
(ii) the applicability of the uniform methodology and the identification
of any areas for improving the methodology. The latter could, for example, be
based upon selected sample case studies taken from major sectors of the
economy, or other special studies; and
(iii) the identification of any specific training and/or equipment
requirements.
In order that the Bank may fully prepare for the review, YBA should forward to
the Bank the annual progress reports, as they become available.



54
AM  F OF LDP
Page 1 of 3
YUGOSIAVIA                                                       -
STRUCTUA ADJ"SZ   LOQAN
The broad objectives of the macroeconomic program in the medium
term is to stabilize the economy and to revive economic growth, while
improving Yugoslavia's international creditworthiness. The quantitative
targets below will measure medium-term macroeconomic performance and through
this, the policy performance of the Government.
TABLE 1: YUGOSLAVIA: MEDIUM TERM MACROECONOMIC OBJECTIVES
1987         1988         1989          1990         1991          1992
-------actual---------   -ipeli.-----I--------targeted-----------
1 RMAL 6SP GROWTH                              -1.1         -1.7          0.8          -2.0          2.0           3.0
2 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION GRCWTE I                0.8         -0.7           1.8         -2.0           1.9          2.7
3 RE"L 55055 INVESTMENT                        -5.1         -8.0          0.5           2.0          6.5           7.6
4 REAL CMNSUMPTION                              0.3         -1.0           1.0         -0.4           1.9          2.8
5 DIPLOIMENT 550T1 3/                           2.0          0.0         -0.3          -0.3          0.7           1.0
6 TOTAL EXPORT VOLUME GROWTH                   -0.6          5.7           7.2          7.0          3.8           3.9
8a CC EXPoRS VaLUME GROWTH                      5.8          4.7           9.5          7.8          4.1           4.2
7 TOTAL IMPORT VOLUME GROWB                    -5.8          1.1         12.7          14.4          7.1           6.3
7. CC IMPORT VOL4MZ GROT                       -7.9          4.7         18.9          15.5          7.3           7.2
8 TOTAL CI ? I     ORT BALAI=C                 118s         2487          1984         1070          885          615
9 CR15  IN RI SERV  (-.ICREA)                  1074        -1549         -2200         -710         -650          -800
10 DEOM  SEVICZ (HILL. US8)                    3959         4053         25O0          ;300         1500          1300
11 TOTAL M#LT
EXTSRNAL DEOT (mLm. US$)                   20.5          18.9         16.0          16.0         16.3          16.8
social sectors only



55
Page 2 of 3
GOSZIVIA
LIST OF INDICATORS FOR TIM    I         T
NATIONAL ACCOpUNTS
REAL GSP GRWTH
INVESTmENT
I. STOC
II. FIXED INVESTMET
PBIVATE CONUMPTION
EMPLOYMENT
UEMPLOTM
PRCE. WAGE, AID BO Y
RETAIL PRICE nDzx
INUSTRIAL PRODUCER
PRICE INDEX
COST OF LIVING nDDX
AVG. NET
PERsmNAL nu
(per worker)
EMPLOYMENT GROW1N
MONETAY nMICD>R
NET DOMESTIC CREDIT
i. SUORT-TERM (less thm  1 yea)
Li. LONGTERM (more than I year)
NET DOETIC CREDIT (IMY)
DINAR DEPOSITS/TOTAL DEPOSm
INTEREST RATES
(NEY)
1. DISCOUNT aT
(co"eaeal baks)
Li. 3-M E DEPST RATS
Wit. SBORT-T4 EDIN  RAT
iv. LONS-TEN LDIN RATS
BROAD MONEY-m
AEXCANGE RATE
L. NOMINAL EFFECTIVE
ii. REAL EFFECTI
1/ 1989 base year data to be provided along with lat quarter. 1990 data.



56
ANNEX F OF LDP
Page 3 of 3
LIST OF INDICATORS FOR THE MONITORING OF THE MACROECONOMIC PROGRAM
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (Continued) J
BALAICE   PAYMQENS
A: Convertible Only
EXPORT VOLUS GROT 
(in Curent USS)
NET iiER'S REUTTANM
INTEREST PAVSNTS
CUMRENT ACCOUNT BAL.
FOREIGN ECRG. RES.
(-cinreaae)
DEBT SERVICZ
i. CASH BASIS
ii. ACCRUAL BASIS
B: Global Account
EXPOJT VOLUME GR    I
imE   V1OLWE GRON     I
CUENT ACCOUNT BALANU
1/ 1989 base year data to be provided a8la with tst quarter, 1990 data.



57
ANNEX G
YUGOSIAVIA
STRU      DRALSTELT LOAN
Supplementarv Proiect Data Sheet
Serto-:   Tal  o   eXZenta
(a)   Time taken to prepare project:               3 years
(b)   Responsibility for project preparation:   Federal Government/Bank
(c)   First Bank mission:                         October 1985
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:                June 1988
(e)   Negotiations:                               February 1990
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:              May 1990
Section II: Soecial Bank Imlementation Actions
None.
Segti n III: SRecial Conditions
(a)   Conditions of Effectiveness and Release of First Tranche (USS150
million)
None.
(b) Conditions of Release of Second Tranche (US$250 million)
See Table 4 in the President's Report.



58                                  ANNEX H
THE STATS OF BM   Rlt  OPUlATIS IN IUGOMLAVIA
A.  TI           DM 3   U
(As of Deceer 31, 1969)
I.       ica                                                            Ls Canellations
Ih.    Tear           Boe                  -       e                         Loan     Undisbursed                    t
Eigt loas  uly disbursed                                                  3,330.3         -
1561-0  1078   'Elektzcprivreda Bosia   Middle Neretva Dydropmer              73.0       1.2
1561-1  1984    Zlaktropiveda Bosnia    Mddle Eezetwa (osttar)
Suppimm8   l Loan               61.0        4.9
2307    193    Udrus. Doradka Bank   Sorbia Regionl Devlopme_t                94.0      11.0
2336    194    Four Railay Orgs.           sixth Railway                     106.3       4.4
2338    19U    Eight Power Org..           Third Power Trnanissien           115.0     106.1
2336    1984    XoovwkaE Bank Prict.ina    eveth Znduatuial Credit            45.0       4.3
2340    1884    Investiciona Ranks
Titorad                 seventh Industrial Credit          25.0       3.2
2467    1905    Znveatillna Boak
Titograd                Montenegr" Rb8ienal Development   40.0       24.5
2527    1685    Elektroprivreda Bosnia   Visegrad Rydupovwr                  125.0       4.3
2595    19085    XNA-Naftaplin             Petroleum Sector                   55.0      25.6
2596    1965    naftagas                   Petol.m Sectot                     35.0      18.6
2507    1095    Privedama Banks Sarajevo  Petroleum Secto                      2.5       2.0
2715    1986    Four RlOd Otanizatios   First Highw  Sctor                   121.5      38.6
2790    1887    Ljubljska Bnka             Industrial Energ  Conservation    90.0       72.9
6287    1866    Four Road Organilations   Seend Bighwa Sector                61.6      42.1
3068   186 k/ Pour Railwa  Org.           Seveth Railw                      138.0     138.0
3069    1069 9/ Istria  Vote  Works and    Istria and Sleven  Coast Water
Pou  Water Works          Supply and Sewerage              28.0      28.0
3070    1969 II/ Ris-a Water Works         lotria lad sl8 env Coawt Water
Supply and Sewease              32.0       32.0
Total                                   4,578.2
Of which: Repaid                      2,0902
Total now held by the Bank              2,488  0
Total Aoumt Sold                             9.2
Of which Repaid:                           9.2
Total undisbursed
A/      Thb  status of these pojecst  is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA fin aced projects in
e¢oution, which is updated twice yearly and cirulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
kt      not yet signed.
1/      Subsequently, these loans were signed an February 1, 1990.



59
ANNEX I
3.  3TM3? 0g !IC !P4VAI3
Chs ot Decub. 31. 1986)
Fiscal                                        Typ  of                         O I.       illo
Year          Oblior                           his                             Loan    Zaultv   Total
1970    Intentia   neset                  Develost Finace                      -      2.00      2.00
1973/   BTls-B. ?vornica papira.
196o     Polucelulose I Kartlnbje-
Deuse                            Pulp and Paper                     70.86    -       70.85
1977    TvorJca Kartan  I hI la e
Casin                            Pl and Peu                         19.7      -      19.77
1977    Frsikcm  0 Indust.ria Dunaute
Harme                            Food Processla                      5.51   0.91      6.42
1980    Insticiana Bank  itotwad          Soul RlbabiUttion                   21.00    -       21.00
1980    Ratoje Dakic                      Constzuction Equipmt                18.70    -       18.70
1980    Eisht Reiaonal Yugoslev Banks    Smal-Scale Hoterprise Finauce    30.23    -           30.23
1982/   Institut Dr. am Milosevic
1987     Igalo                            Physical Medicine                   19.15    -       19.15
1962    Indstria Za Avutomobilaki
Delovi I Trakori-Iuen" Kocai  Motor Vehicles & Accessories          10.63    -       10.83
1983    LJubljanske Bank,                 Develop_ent Financ                 31.43    -        31.43
1984   3NA-Heftapl4n                      Chemicals & Petroehmicah            37.78    -       37.78
1985/
1989    SOM  lskra                        Telecncations                      33.52    -       33.52
1985    SOUR Energoinvest                 Powr Transmi sion                   15.18    -       15.18
1985    Jugobanka                         Development Fitance                35.80    -        35.80
1985    LJubIJanaka Banks                 Development Finance                 89.84    -       69.84
1S86    Unial-Tovarna Glinice in
Aluminija Boris Kidricevo        Non-Ferrometal                     35.80    -       35.60
1986    Tovarna Autcmobilov in MotorJev  Motor Vehicles                       35.98   0.87    36.85
1987/
1989    Vojvodjanska Banka                Development Finance                 64.43    -       84.43
1988    Save Seoperit                     Tires                              25.84   2.55    28.39
1989    Solonlt Anhovo                    GRP Pipes                          6.r2    _          6.82
Totals                                                      608,07  .L3.6L
Total Coamitmmrts now held by IlC                                            339X$
Total undisbursed (ncluding participations)



