Page  1
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 4, 1990
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 4, 1990 between SOCIALIST
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAV   (the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated
March 11, 1990 from the Guarantor describing a program of
actions,  objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the Guarantor's economy (the
Program) declaring the Guarantor's commitment to  the
execution of the Program,  and requesting assistance from
the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Borrower,  the Bank has agreed
in support of the Program to extend to the Borrower a
loan in various currencies equivalent to four hundred
million dollars ($400,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of
the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in Section 1.01
of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to
and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
Page  2
additional term has the following meaning,
namely, "Uniform Methodology" means the methodology for
appraisal of investment projects set forth in the
"Guidelines for Application of Common Methodology for
Appraising Social and Economic Justification and
Efficiency of Investments in Yugoslavia" published by the
Guarantor on July 31, 1987.
                      ARTICLE II
                       Guarantee
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to
the Program and, to this end, without limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees,  as primary obligor and not as surety merely,
the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party,  exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in the
Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views,  the Guarantor shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it shall not take, or
cause or permit to be taken, any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
contained in the Loan Agreement and that it will take or cause to be
taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable the
Borrower to perform its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  (a)  The Guarantor shall take all measures
necessary or appropriate on its part to ensure that the Yugoslav
Banking Association,  in conjunction with the Social Accounting
Service: (i) review with the Bank the application of the Uniform
Methodology at least once each year, with the first such review to be
completed by August 31,1990; and (ii) taking into consideration the
recommendations arising from each such review, promptly thereafter
implement revisions to such Uniform Methodology.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall take all measures necessary or
appropriate on its part to: (i) review with the Bank the investment
programs in the energy and road and rail transport sectors at least
once a year, with the first series of such reviews to be completed by
August 31, 1990; and (ii) taking into consideration the
recommendations arising from each such review, promptly thereafter
implement revisions to such investment programs.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01.  The Federal Secretary of Finance  of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  3
     For the Guarantor:
          Savezni Sekretarijat za Finansije
          Omladinskih Brigada 1
          11070 Belgrade Yugoslavia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               SAVEZNI SEKRETARIJAT               12804 SIV
               ZA FINANZIJE
               Belgrade
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.U.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                          197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
                                                  64145 (WUI)
                                                  82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
                         By /s/  Branimir Zekan
                                        Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/  Barber Conable
                                        President
                             SCHEDULE
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
1.   Macroeconomic Program
     Achievement of progress by the Guarantor, satisfactory to the
Bank, in carrying out its medium-term macroeconomic program.
2.   Foreign Exchange Allocation
     Continued operation of the inter bank foreign exchange market in
a manner, satisfactory to the Bank,  to ensure adequate competition.
3.   Trade Liberalization
     Continued liberalization of imports in accordance with targets
agreed with the Bank.
4.   Price Reform
Page  4
     (a)  Continued implementation by the Guarantor of measures to
liberalize prices of items covered by the Industrial Producer Price
Index in accordance with targets agreed with the Bank.
     (b)  Adoption of action programs, satisfactory to the Bank, on
railway tariffs and electricity prices.
5.   Financial Discipline
     (a)  Continued implementation by the Guarantor of the policy of
positive real interest rates through, inter alia, elimination of all
interest rate subsidies provided through the Borrower and the banking
system.
     (b)  Adoption and initial implementation by the Guarantor of a
program,  satisfactory to the Bank,  to revise the accounting
standards and audit procedures  of enterprises  and banks in
accordance with international standards and practices and to
strengthen audit capabilities in Yugoslavia.
6.   Investment Allocation
     Completion of the first reviews referred to in Section 3.03 (a)
and (b)  of this Agreement, which reviews are to take into
consideration, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the recommen-
dations of the Bank.
7.   Reforms in the Enterprise Sector
     (a)  Establishment of adequate institutional arrangements with
appropriate  authority,  under the coordination of the Guarantor, to
provide at the republican and provincial level the rehabilitation,
liquidation or restructuring of selected enter
     (b)  Adoption by the Guarantor of programs satisfactory to:(i)
reduce the losses,  calculated as of January 1,  1990,  of a number
of the twenty largest loss makers to a target level and on a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) provide the rehabilitation or
liquidation framework to be followed in five of the twenty
enterprises.
     (c)  Adoption by the Guarantor of a program,  including adequate
institutional arrangements and incentives,  satisfactory to the Bank,
to encourage the formation and further development of small-and
medium-size enterprises.
8.   Reforms in the Banking Sector
     (a)  Achievement of progress by the Borrower, satisfactory to
the Bank, for:
     (i)       developing adequate supervisory functions  and
               capacities;
     (ii)      finalizing appropriate regulations pursuant to the Law
               on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Banking Law, and
               the Law on the Rehabilitation, Bankruptcy and
               Liquidation of Banks  and Other Financial Organizations;
               and
     (iii)     assessing and/or auditing the banks  (including audit
               of loan portfolios and contingent commitments) in
               accordance with international standards and practices.
     (b)  Submission by the Borrower to the Bank of the results of
audits of bank portfolios and adoption by the Borrower of a program,
satisfactory to the Bank, to restructure the banks to enable them to
function as effective financial intermediaries.
9.   Social Costs of Adjustment
    (a)  Adoption and initial implementation by the Guarantor, or
Page  5
republican or provincial authorities, as appropriate, of a program
and financing measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to alleviate the
social  costs  of adjustment,  including unemployment relief
measures,  such as retraining of displaced workers, provision of
assistance in obtaining new employment and provision of unemployment
compensation.
     (b)  Submission by the Guarantor to the Bank of a report on the
existing assistance delivery and retraining system.
