Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3602-PNG
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF THE
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 11, 1982
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -  Kina (K)
Kl             =  US$1.50
US$1          =  K 0.67
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)          =  2,205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km) =  100 ha
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APO     -   Aid Post Orderley
DPI     -   Department of Primary Industry
DWS     -   Department of Works and Supply
FMC     -   Food Marketing Corporation
GLC     -   Goodnews Lutheran Church
HQPCC   -   Headquarters Project Coordinating Committee
HQPC    -   Headquarters Project Coordinator
LDP     -   Less Developed Provinces
LGC     -   Local Government Council
NGO     -   Non-Government Organizations
NPEP    -   National Public Expenditures Plan
NPO     -   National Planning Office
OPC     -   Office of Project Coordination
PC      -   Project Coordinator
PI      -   Project Implementation division (NPO)
PNG     -   Papua New Guinea
PNGDB   -   PNG Development Bank
PSC     -   Public Services Commission
SSC     -   Secretary's Staff Committee
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
i



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      1
Introduction ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .      1
National Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    1
Structure of Government  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     3
Development Objectives and Less Developed Provinces.                         4
II.  THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
Physical Characteristics .   ......    .   . . . . .  .                      6
People and Their Life Style   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    7
Provincial Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     8
Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     9
Government Structure ...  .            .....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
Public Services   . . . . . . . . . .   . .   . . . . .                     12
III. THE PROJECT . . . . .....                                                     17
Project Origin .            . ....... .17
General Description   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .    ......  .     .     19
Detailed Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   20
Cost Estimates ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .      .    32
Financing   .....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .......        .    32
Procurement  .....  .           .  .  .  .  .   .  .    ......  .  .    .   33
Accounting and Auditing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    34
Government Funds Flow and Bank/IDA Disbursements . . . .                    34
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT. . .                     35
Implementation Responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    35
Coordination and Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    36
Project Implementation ....  .            .    . ......  .      .  .    .   37
Progress Review   ....  .          .  .    . ......  .     .  .  .    .   37
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . .                    38
Project Staffing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    39
Operating Agreements ....  .           .  .    ......  .     .  .    .    40
Implementation Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   40
Recurrent Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
Nonquantifiable Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Quantifiable Benefits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  46
Environmental Tmpact ................. .    48
Fiscal  Impact    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  48
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOENDATIONS. . . . . . . . .    49
ANNEXES
1. Project Area
Tables 1. Altitudinal Zones
2. Population and Land Distribution
3. Provincial Agricultural Production
4. Provincial Health Statistics
5. Provincial Education Statistics
6. Provincial Revenues and Expenditures
2. Project Costs and Disbursement Schedule
Tables 1. Total Project Costs (by Component)
2. Total Project Costs (by Category)
3. Project Road Costs
4. Disbursements Schedule
3. Project Implementation and Organization
Tables 1. Implementation Responsibility
2. Additional Staff Requirements
3. Schedule of Key Activities
4. Agricultural Production and Economic Analysis
Tables 1. Clan Model A - Technical Coefficients
and Revenues
2. Clan Model B - Technical Coefficients and Revenues



Tables 3. Clan Model C - Technical Coefficients and Revenues
4. Footnotes to Tables 1, 2 and 3
5. Clan Model Distribution
6. Number of Clans Reached
7. Phasing of Benefits
8. Forecast of Agricultural Production
9. Economic Costs and Benefits - Total 30-Year Roads and
Agricultural Investment Package
10. Sensitivity Analysis
5. Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
World Bank 23067   Provincial Government Organization Chart
World Dank 23091   Project Funds/Information Flow
World Bank 23068   Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 15769 Population Distribution and Road Network
IBRD 15770 Agriculture
IBRD 15771 Social Infrastructure






I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of Papua New Guinea (PNG) has requested Bank Group
assistance for the initiation of a provincial development program in the Enga
Province, which is of one of the least developed and poorest provinces in PNG.
The proposed project constitutes the first phase of the development program.
Project components include subsistence farming and crop development,
reforestation, livestock distribution, health system upgrading, road improve-
ments, rural electrification, education and training, business development,
provincial administrative strengthening and community development. The Enga
Provincial Government was responsible for project preparation with assistance
from the national Government. This report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission comprising Messrs. A. Hasan, B. Liese, A. Mercer, G. Soto,
E. Mendez (Bank) and B. Finney and M. Murchison (Consultants) which visited
PNG in March/April 1981.
National Overview
1.02      General.  Papua New Guinea is a land of mountainous terrain, endowed
with reasonably good soils, abundant rainfall, considerable mineral resources,
and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential. It has a
land area of about 500,000 sq ka and a population of only about three million,
85% of whom are largely subsistence farmers living in traditional societies
in sparsely populated rural areas where economic opportunities are quite
limited, productivity is low and local services generally poor. Although the
rural areas are generally sparsely populated, there are some areas where land
shortages are emerging and outmigration increasing. Rugged mountains, rising
to over 4,500 m, thick forests, vast swamps and large rivers divide the
country into numerous ecological zones and have resulted in wide cultural and
linguistic diversity among the people.  The most striking feature of PNG's
economy is the dualism which is evident in the relatively small employment of
people in the modern monetary sector and the large proportion of the popula-
tion engaged in subsistence cultivation. The modern sector is dominated by
mining and by the expatriate community which contributes significantly to
both public administration and the private sector. Mining and the government
sector and a variety of small manufacturing and service establishments
contribute about 15% and 50% respectively of GDP; agriculture, forestry, and'
fishery provide the remaining 35%. GNP per capita in 1979 was estimated at
about $780. The imputed per capita income of subsistence farmers,-however,
is ouly about $150. Population growth is high at about 2.3% p.a.
1.03      Agriculture Sector.  In addition to accounting for a significant
share of GDP, the agriculture. sector contributes about 50% of total exports



-2-
and, importantly, provides livelihood for some 85% of the population. There
are three basic modes of agricultural production. The subsistence sector,
which contributes an estimated 40-50% of total agricultural output, encom-
passes most of the rural population, although probably less than 5% of the
population relies exclusively on this means of support. Second, most of the
rural population is also engaged to some extent in the commercial sector,
producing cash crops on smallholdings. Third, there are some 500-600
export-oriented plantations. Responsibility for development of the agricul-
ture, forestry and fishery sector rests with the Department of Primary
Industry (DPI), which at the national level is responsible for overall policy
and planning, operation of agricultural colleges and research stations and
provision of specialized technical support; at the provincial level DPI
handles extension, farmer training and implementation of provincial agricul-
tural development programs.  Other major institutions which are involved in
the sector are: (a) Papua New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB) which provides
agricultural credit; (b) marketing boards for coffee, cocoa, and copra, which
function as regulatory agencies;/l (c) the Food Marketing Corporation (FMC)
which undertakes marketing of vegetables, and (d) the Department of Land and
Survey, responsible for land matters.
1.04     In 1979, the main cash crops (practically all for export) were (in m
tons): copra (105,000), coffee (47,000), cocoa (27,000), palm oil (30,000)
and rubber (4,500). The first three are cultivated over large areas of
smallholdings and plantations and the last two in small consolidated settle-
ment areas. The main subsistence crops are sweet potatoes, bananas and taro.
Most families keep pigs. Crop yields are low under traditional practices, but
higher yields have been obtained under good management. The performance of
the sector has not been very satisfactory in recent years. Major constraints
impeding growth are: (a) insufficient investment, particularly in the estate
sector resulting from uncertainty over estate acquisitions; (b) decline in
the quality and level of extension and its link with research as a result of
decentralization and shortage of adequately trained manpower; (c) scarcity
of good agricultural land (reasonable access with moderate to high fertility
and suitable topography) mainly because of difficulty of acquiring land, most
of which is under customary clan control and is thus subject to a complex land
tenure system; (d) declining levels of productivity in the subsistence
sector and its inability to keep pace with rural population growth. The
Bank's Agricultural Services Review Report/2 discusses these in greater
detail. Recommendations put forth in this report are being reviewed by the
Government, and discussions are underway about the possibility of Bank support
for an agricultural support services project.
1.05      Roads.  The road network in PNG comprises just over 18,300 km of
vehicular road of which only 500 km are sealed. Resulting from the country- s
/1 The Copra Marketing Board is involved in physical marketing also.
/2 Report No. 3161-PNG, January 30, 1981.



-3-
topography, the road network consists of a number of regional systems and does
not reach the majority of the population, many of whom remain isolated and
inaccessible, except by foot or air.  Further, high rainfall and adverse
topography result in high costs for construction and maintenance. About 27%
of the roads are maintained by the Central Government, and the remaiider are
the responsibility of provincial and local governments. Much of the emphasis
on road construction in the past years has been directed at major roads.
Now the Government s priority is shifting towards providing basic access
roads to smaller population centers and rural areas to provide access to
markets and to facilitate access to the population of basic services such as
education, agriculture extension and health.
1.06      Health Services.  The structure of health services is pyramidal,
with the hospitals at the top, health centers and subcenters /1 at the next
level and aid posts /2 at the base. The ratio of key health staff to
population is 1:17,000 (doctors) and 1:1,630 (aid post orderlies). In general
the coverage is reasonably good. Government's health policy places high
priority on expanding rural health facilities and preventive services,
promoting health education and training local health manpower.
1.07      Education and Training.  Faced with a continuing shortage of
skilled manpower, the Government attaches great importance to the development
of educational systems, both formal and nonformal. In 1979, it was estimated
that 58% and 13% of the children of the relevant age groups were enrolled in
primary and secondary education. In the formal education sector, Government
policy objectives are to expand enrollment particularly for females, improve
the imbalances of educational opportunities among provinces, and improve
the quality of education. In addition, the Government has in recent years
increased its attention towards nonformal education, particularly in rural
areas, recognizing that only 32% of the population over the age of ten is
literate, the formal school system generally bypasses the majority of rural
people and that less than 1% of the population ever receives post-secondary or
tertiary education.
Structure of Government
1.08      Papua New Guinea has a parliamentary system of Government, the
most salient characteristic of which is its high degree of decentralization
/1 Health centers provide basic curative, family health and health improve-
ment services; these are staffed by health extension officers, nurses and
orderlies. Health subcenters provide a limited range of services
including treatment of outpatients, health education, community health,
nursing and obstetric care; these are staffed by nurses and orderlies.
/2 Aid posts provide basic health services to a small population (500-3,000)
and are staffed by aid post orderlies (APO); service includes outpatient
treatment, health education, and advice on environmental improvement.



- 4 -
of authority and implementation, in recognition of the wide diversity of
people in the country. In all, there are 19 provinces with an average
population of about 160,000. Primary provincial functions, where provincial
law overrides national law, include the coordination of local government
councils and courts, primary and nonformal education, housing and regulation
of trade (other than banks), cultural activities and public entertainment.
Concurrent (or shared) functions which allow provincial governments latitude
in matters exclusively affecting the province include agriculture, health
(excluding hospitals), secondary education, and roads (excluding main
highways). To discharge the above responsibilities the provinces have
organized provincial secretariats and departments with their own bylaws and
staff transferred from the corresponding national units.
1.09      Provinces are allowed to introduce fees and taxes on retail sales,
trading licenses, land, head tax and public entertainment. The National
Government also refunds to the provinces the proceeds of certain taxes
collected in the provinces and 1.25% of the export value of goods produced in
the province and exported, besides providing grants tied to projects or pro-
grams. Most importantly the National Government provides the provinces with
grants to cover all recurrent costs, and funds under the National Public
Expenditure Plan (NPEP) to cover incremental development expenditures./l
Overall the provincial governments  own revenues contribute only about 8% to
their total expenditures, with the rest being provided by the National Govern-
ment. The provincial contribution is low mainly because of the limited tax
base, and also the low level of market activity in most provinces. In
general, decentralization has increased government expenditures and,
importantly, adversely affected the level and quality of government services
because of the lack of adequately qualified and experienced staff and insuf-
ficient coordination between national and provincial efforts. However, with
increasing attention towards controlling government expenditures, and as the
provincial governments gain maturity and experience and benefit from a greater
emphasis on education and training, these problems should gradually abate.
Further, increased local participation in the planning and implementation
process has the potential to improve the relevance of expenditures for
provincial needs and to increase the coordination of spending within the
provinces.
Development Objectives and Less Developed Provinces
1.09      National Development Objectives and Strategy.  The key development
problem confronting the Government is how to pursue balanced economic growth
and modernization in a dualistic society, in the face of immense sociological
and physical constraints. The National Government articulated, in 1976, the
Post-Independence National Development Strategy which sets out the following
as the key national objectives: (a) equitable distribution of growth benefits;
/1 Decentralization and provincial finances are discussed in detail in
the Bank's recent Economic Report on PNG (No. 3544-PNG).



-5-
(b) improved regional distribution of social services; (c) an increased
monetary sector and control of the economy by nationals; (d) decentralization
of economic activity, planning and government spending; (e) development of a
more self-reliant economy; (f) national integration; and (g) satisfaction of
basic needs. The strategy followed by the Government for attaining the above
objectives consists of the followirg elements: (a) sectoral programs in rural
transport, agriculture, rural health, primary education and rural business
development, aimed directly at providing economic opportunities or improving
services to rural people; (b) projects specifically aimed at development of
less developed provinces and areas; (c) social and welfare programs such as
malaria control, population planning and programs for disadvantaged groups,
which improve the general level of well-being throughout the country; (d)
investments in mineral resources, commercial agriculture and forestry infra-
structure; (e) projects aimed at improving food production, subsistence and
nutrition; (f) programs for expanding formal and nonformal education for
nationals; and (g) programs for improving skills of public servants and
effectiveness of the public administration. The above strategy is implemented
through the National Public Expenditures Plan (NPEP) which is a rolling four-
year plan encompassing all development and incremental government expendi-
tures. All NPEP expenditures have to contribute to one or more of the above
elements of the strategy.
1.10      Less Developed Provinces (LDPs).  Because of the Government-s
concern about uneven economic and social development in Papua New Guinea, it
has identified nine LDPs which rank below the national average with respect to
a number of development indicators based on health, education, land availabi-
lity, transport, government staffing, and smallholder agricultural incomes./l
Incomes of most of the people living in these provinces fall below 30% of the
national per capita income. Raising the standard of living of people in the
LDPs and developing a more even distribution of public and private services
and economic opportunities there have become increasingly important features
of the NPEP. Initially, integrated rural development projects were chosen to
serve as vehicles for focusing on LDPs. The first projects of this kind were
the ongoing IDA-financed Southern Highlands Rural Development Project (para.
1.11) and the ADB-financed East Sepik Project. Resulting from experience
gained under these projects and reflecting the growing political pressures
from the provincial governments, national government policy has now moved
towards promotion of full-scale development plans which focus on the totality
of economic and social development issues facing the LDPs. Such development
plans for the seven remaining LDPs are in various stages of preparation, and
the Enga plan was completed in late 1980 (para. 3.01)
/1 Health index is based on life expectancy, child mortality, malnutrition
and availability of services. Education index comprises adult literacy,
and school enrollment. Land transportation index is derived from avail-
ability of road access. Government staffing indicates the number of
staff per capita.



-6-
1.11      Southern Highlands Rural Development Project (Credit 841-PNG) was
appraised in September 1977 and approved by IDA in June 1978. The project
includes the following: (a) nutrition/subsistence component to effect
improvements in the subsistence sector; (b) promotion of commercial crops
(coffee, tea, cardamom, and mulberry) and related processing and support
services; (c) rural health facilities and staff training; (d) construction
and upgrading of main and feeder roads; and (e) expansion and strengthening
of formal and nonformal education. Total project costs are $32.2 million of
which IDA is financing $20.0 million (62%), and implementation is scheduled
over six years.
1.12      Overall implementation of the project has been generally satisfac-
tory. Although there have been delays with certain components, the develop-
ment of the physical aspects of the project (construction of roads, buildings,
schools, health centers and a power line) is on schedule. The silk component
is being scaled down and consolidated because of certain technical and
institutional problems and lack of relevant socio-economic data. The project
is expected to be completed on time, and disbursements have been satisfactory
at about 90% of appraisal estimates. This project was designed and initiated
prior to establishment of a formal provincial government. With the occurrence
of the latter, the support and commitment of national departments is not
fully forthcoming in matters relating to them, thus adversely affecting
implementation of certain components. This problem has particularly affected
staff recruitment and health training; because of procedural problems and
inadequate salaries offered, about 40% of expatriate positions are still
vacant. Moreover provincialization has also rendered inappropriate the
project management structure. Discussions are underway between the depart-
ments involved to resolve these matters. Most of the problems that have
arisen, while largely resulting from changed circumstances, also reflect the
fact that this is the first multisectoral project undertaken in PNG. While
it is too soon to draw conclusions, lessons that have emerged so far, parti-
cularly in regard to project design, management structure and staffing risks,
have been fully incorporated into the design of the proposed project.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Physical Characteristics
2.01      The Enga province is located almost in the center of PNG's main
land mass (IBRD Map No. 15769). The total area of the province is 12,200 sq
km with most of it being high (generally between 800 to 4,000 m above sea
level) and steep (slopes over 350) (Annex 1, Table 1); as a result only about
30% (400,000 ha) of land is usable for human occupancy or agricultural pur-
poses. The province is drained by three river systems, and natural vegetation
consists mainly of rain forests.  The soils are largely formed from volcanic
ash; they are generally easy to work, and maintain a good level of produc--
tivity, particularly under the typical practice of mounding used by the



- 7 -
farmers (para. 2.11). The soils have good physical properties, but tend to
lose nutrients quickly when the rain forest cover is removed. Average rain-
fall varies from 2,000 mm to 3,500 mm per year and is evenly distributed,
with only occasional storms; evaporation rarely exceeds precipitation. Mean
monthly temperature is around 17 degrees Celsius, changing only slightly
through the year. The major climatic risk is frost which occurs above
1,600 m, becoming severe beyond 2,600 m.
People and Their Life Style
2.02      Contact with Outside World.  Enga is remotely located, and about
50 years ago the people still lived in stone age isolation. It is one of
the last areas to be brought under Government's administrative control, and
sustained contact with the outside world has barely lasted more than two
decades.
2.03      Demographic Features.  The population of the province is about
165,000 with an average family size of 5.4 (Annex 1, Table 2). Most people
live in the valleys between altitudes of 1,400 and 2,600 m to avoid severe
frost risks common in higher altitudes and malaria and other perceived risks
in lands below 1,400 m. The crude population density is 14 per sq km, which
is nearly three times the national average; Enga contains some of the most
densely populated subsistence farming areas in PNG. It is also one of the
most rural provinces with about 96% of the population living in rural areas;
the remaining live in urban areas comprising the government centers. The
largest of these urban areas (Wabag) has a population of 1,500. Population
is growing at about 2% p.a., and is likely to increase in the future, given
the high proportion of young people, improvements in health services,
declining traditional birth spacing practices, and low external migration.
2.04      Social Organizations and Life Style./l  Despite their links with
the outside world and involvement in the cash economy, the Engans remain a
clan-based subsistence oriented society with a very rudimentary standard of
hygiene, clothing and shelter and live in scattered homesteads cultivating
their subsistence gardens spread throughout clan territories. Each Engan
belongs to a clan - a community averaging about 350 persons. There is little
political integration beyond the clan level. The clan constitutes the basic
unit of land tenure in Enga;/2 although clan lands have recognizable bound-
aries these are often subject to disputes particularly as a result of the
emerging scarcity of good cultivable land. Within clan land, distribution
of land is highly complex; however each family has access to land for food
gardens,/3 inheritance of which is generally patrimonial.
/1  Detailed description in Project File (Working Paper No. 1).
/2  Nearly all land in the province is held under customary tenure; only
about 2% is alienated and leased to the Government and church groups.
/3  Garden areas are reported to range from 0.05-0.45 ha per person.



2.05      The men undertake, on a communal basis, the heavy tasks of clearing
and preparing the land and fencing, while women perform the time-consuming
tasks of tending the food gardens and provision of foods for the family and
pigs. Cash crops are also generally looked after by women; however incomes
from these go to the men. While produce from food gardens is at the sole
disposal of the family owning the land, income from cash crops is generally
shared among the subclan. It is estimated that men spend only about 60% of
their productive time on agricultural activities with the remaining devoted to
mainly rituals and ceremonies. The women, on the other hand, spend about 80%
for agriculture and livestock.
2.06      Pigs are central to Enga's way of life; they are the primary
article of exchange, probably exceed the human population, and compete with
humans for the food resources, consuming about 60% of the total sweet potato
production. An estimated 80-90% of the human diet is made up of the staple
sweet potato, with the remaining made up of other traditional crops (e.g.
taro, yams, etc.), and some animals and birds.  Pigs are not part of the
regular diet, but are mostly slaughtered at ceremonies. In general, food is
not eaten frequently enough and is nutritionally inadequate, thus resulting in
energy and protein deficiency and contributing to malnutrition, particularly
in children (para. 2.23).
2.07      The social and cultural environment in Enga, as elsewhere in the PNG
Highlands, creates certain constraints to economic development. The following
are the more prominent ones: (a) the expansionary nature of the Highland
clans and their tendency towards tribal fighting which results in destruction
of physical property and cash crops; (b) difficulty of providing extension in
a highly fragmented society not always on peaceful terms within itself and not
very receptive to advice from nonclan members or influence that has not been
self-motivated; (c) the difficulty of acquiring clan lands for use by nonclan
members; (d) low success rate of businesses in the Highlands because of the
traditional requirements of achieving leadership which encourages conspicuous
investment, and the strong links within clans involving obligations and
contributions which deter from viable operations of the rural enterprises; and
(e) since women do most of the task of tending gardens and cash crops,
expansion of the cropped area would be limited by their ability to spend more
time, compared to present levels, on agricultural activities.
Provincial Economy
2.08      Owing to the above factors and limited development efforts so far,
the provincial economy is characterized by lack of a developed monetary sector
as well as the limited number of commercial activities. Thus, of the total
estimated value of output in the province in 1980 (K 17.5 million), the
subsistence sector accounts for about 85% (national average is only 15%); cash
cropping contributes about 10%. The remaining 5% of output is dominated by
government expenditure which account for about 60% of this output, with the
rest representing value added by indigenous enterprises in the private sector
such as trading, construction, sawmilling and transport. At present, mineral
resources do not play a part in the province-s economy, but with the likely



- 9 -
establishment of a small alluvial gold mine at Porgera (expected in the late
1980s) this should also contribute to expansion of the monetary sector. There
are hardly any employment opportunities outside the Government and the
missionary organizations.
Agricultural Sector /1
2.09      Overview.  Sweet potato cultivation and pig rearing dominate the
activities within the sector; only in recent years, with the introduction of
imported vegetables and pyrethrum in the higher altitude areas and of coffee
in the intermediate altitudes, has commercial agriculture begun to make
inroads in the traditional cropping system.
2.10      Land Use, Distribution and Potential.  Of the 400,000 ha of agri-
culturally usable land in the province (para. 2.01) about 92% is estimated to
be forested, 5% fallow, and only about 2% under crops; urban areas account for
the remaining 1%. Although as these figures indicate there is adequate scope
for increasing cropped area within the province as a whole, the skewed distri-
bution of land and cultural factors create a condition of land shortage in
some areas and unavailability of land in others; thus 45% of clans own 23% of
usable land, 38% own 34%, and the remaining 17% own 43%. The first type of
clans have little additional land for expansion and in general face land
shortage. While the latter two types of clan have substantial usable land, it
is either generally inaccessible or in sparsely populated areas or in high
malaria and other health hazard zones; further their use by non-clan members
is unfeasible in the foreseeable future. Thus in the medium term, a signifi-
cant increase in cropped area is unlikely (para. 3.11).
2.11      Subsistence Farming System.  Subsistence production mainly comprises
sweet potato /2; in addition, small amounts of other crops (taro, yam, banana,
etc.) are also grown by most families. Rough estimates, based on per capita
consumption, indicate production of about 350,000 tons of sweet potatoes
(including consumption by pigs) and 23,000 tons of other crops (Annex 1,
Table 3). In land-short areas, subsistence horticulture has been increasing
in complexity due to a rapidly growing human and pig population, the
/1 In general, information on farming systems, production, yields, and land
tenure is sketchy and based on the work of anthropologists, ad hoc infor-
mation collected by extension workers and field visits at appraisal - in
all cases the information is generally clan specific. Thus provincewide
generalizations based on these data are unlikely to have a high degree
of accuracy given the immense diversity among clans. A baseline survey
would be undertaken during the project period (para. 4.08).
/2 Sweet potatoes are cultivated in mounds which are about 3 m in
diameter, 1 m high and 1-2 m apart and have composting based on feces and
vegetable detritus carefully mixed with top soil; this practice largely
compensates for the inherent low levels of nitrogen in the region's
volcanic soils.



- 10 -
introduction of new crops and their intercropping with the traditional crops,
and the marketing of an increasing proportion of production as cash crops.
The combination of these factors has resulted in diminishing availability of
land for food gardens, depletion of soil fertility, increasing risks of
erosion and frost, cultivation at high altitudes (up to 2,800 m), deforesta-
tion, and increased land disputes. Thus from all indicators, it is becoming
clear that for a large segment of the population the subsistence system is
fast reaching its limits, and is likely to reach crisis point by the turn of
the century. Therefore it is important that efforts be undetaken soon to
reduce stress on the subsistence system in these areas and enable it to cope
with population increases. The major constraints to development of subsis-
tence horticulture include: lack of adaptive research on suitable technologies
and crops, weak extension services, and, importantly, limited absorption capa-
city of an untrained rural population whose subsistence depends on the succes-
ful application of their long-tried traditional agricultural practices.
2.12      Cash Crops.  Although the introduction of cash crops in Enga is
quite recent and despite the weak extension services, about 60% of the fami-
lies are now engaged in production of coffee and pyrethrum and numerous others
in vegetable production, indicating the adaptive nature of the farmers to
economic opportunities. In 1979, total production (in tons) for these crops
amounted to about 1,500 /1, 200, and 2,000 respectively, (Annex 1, Table 3),
and accounted for 3%, 96% and 40%/2 of national production.  Incomes from
these cash crops, however, are very low because of low yields and poor
quality of product. Inadequate supply of good seedlings, poor cultivation
and harvesting practices and lack of extension have all contributed to the
unsatisfactory yields and production. Further, the poor road network and
lack of a proper marketing facility (for vegetables) has inhibited markceting,
and consequently production.  Also, unlike other provinces, there are no
plantations due to a lack of large tracts of accessible land; consequently
the demonstration benefits from the presence of commercial agriculture have
not been realized. Simple changes in husbandry (better pruning, weed
control, spacing, etc.) could quickly and substantially increase
productivity; further, with good demonstration efforts and effective
agricultural extension, the potential for expanding smallholder cash cropping
is considerable.
2.13      Livestock.  Efforts have been made by Government and by missionaries
to introduce sheep, goats and cattle with a view to improve the Engan diet,
make better use of the fallow and grassland areas, and provide an additional
cash-earning opportunity for small producers. Good progress has been observed
in adoption of sheep and goats as these species are relatively hardy, do not
require too much labor and are suitable to the ecological conditions.  Poultry
is also being actively encouraged as a source of income and nutrition since
it has good potential for productive breeding at the village level.
/1 Parchment coffee.
/2 Percentage applies to commercially marketed vegetables.



- 11 -
2.14      Forestry.  Rain forest is the predominating vegetation in Enga.  The
two most important species, in terms of usage, are Casuarina and Pandanus, the
first providing housing, fencing and firewood while the pandanus nuts are
important nutritionally and culturally. The casuarina is planted in fallow
land where it assists in improving fertility and stops soil erosion.
Increasing population pressures have led to greater use of steeper valley
sides, pushing the forest margin upwards in places as high as 2,800 m.
Although overall the province has vast resources of timber, in many areas
these resources are becoming increasingly scarce as a result of the clan
system of land tenure and the corresponding distribution of land. Thus in the
next two to three decades for most of the clans living in the densely popu-
lated valleys, forest resources will become increasingly inaccessible and
forest margins will be pushed to ecologically undesirable levels, unless
efforts are stepped up to replant deforested areas (para. 3.14). The commer-
cial exploitation of forest is severely limited by rugged terrain, difficult
climatic conditions, and the few species which have commercial acceptance at
present. While the size of exploitable and accessible forest is adequate for
the current provincial demand for sawn logs, this would become grossly insuf-
ficient in about 30-40 years, highlighting the need for undertaking measures
which would ensure that, as a minimum, the province does not have to resort to
the costly option of transporting timber from other parts of the country.
2.15      Agricultural Incomes.  Tentative estimates indicate a value of
agricultural output from the province of about K 16.5 million in 1980 or about
K 100 ($150) per capita, which is about 20% of the national per capita income.
About 90% (K 90) of the income is the imputed value of subsistence output, and
K 10, the value of income from cash crops such as coffee, pyrethrum and vege-
tables. While per capita subsistence output is generally similar to that for
other parts of the country, incomes from cash crops are only about 10% of the
national average.
Government Structure
2.16      Background, Organization and Management.  Until 1974, Enga was
part of the Western Highlands district. It was granted district status in
that year, and elevated to a province in 1978. The province has a cabinet
comprising the premier, deputy premier and seven ministers each with a port-
folio of provincial activities, all of whom are elected members of the pro-
vincial assembly. The Department of Enga, headed by a secretary, is respon-
sible for public administration in the province. The secretary reports to
the provincial cabinet, and is assisted by a deputy secretary who is in
charge of day-to-day operations. The deputy secretary in turn is assisted by
two first assistant secretaries, one responsible for policy and planning
functions, and the other for field services which include all line divisions
(agriculture, health, education, commerce, etc.). The organizational struc-
ture is shown in Chart No. 23067. Total staff of the Department is about 800
(including 400 teachers), of which 98% are nationals; almost all staff belong



- 12 -
to the national public service.  Coordination among all government divisions
within the province is effected through the Secretary's Staff Committee
(SSC), which comprises all divisional heads.
2.17      Local Government Councils (LGC).  These are elected bodies which
are responsible for rural improvement programs, local road maintenance and
for fostering political integration and nation building at the grass roots
level. The councils receive revenues from the provincial government and from
head  taxes.  Like elsewhere in the country, performance of LGCs in Enga has
not been satisfactory because of mismanagement and lack of capabilities.
The provincial government is reviewing measures to increase effectiveness of
LGC operations.
Public Services
2.18      Overview.  Enga is one of the least developed provinces in terms of
access to public services. Not only are there fewer education and health
facilities, but there is also a smaller road network and an acute shortage of
housing and office space for public servants. The province is ranked last,
nationally, in terms of public servants/population (1:206 compared to the
national average of 1:57). While most public services are provided by the
Government, various Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), particularly the
Goodnews Lutheran Church (GLC) (para. 2.29), have performed a useful role in
provision of social services and vocational training. Government expenditures
per capita have been and are among the lowest in the country; in 1981 these
would amount to K 56 ($84) per capita compared to a national average of K 81
($122). A substantial infrastructure program is required to enable Enga Lo
catch up with the other provinces. Moreover, its recent administrative
history, remote location, tribal fighting, poor and difficult internal
communications, rapid localization, poor personnel administration, low
management skills and inadequate staff training have all contributed to the
reduced effectiveness of government services in Enga.
2.19      Roads.  Enga has a road network of about 850 km, all of which is
unsealed. Roads are classified in three major groups: (a) national highway
(72 km); (b) provincial roads (311 km); and (c) feeder and access roads
(474 km) (IBRD Map No. 15769). Information on traffic levels is inadequate;
in general private vehicles account for about 60-70% of the traffic flow.
Roads are generally of low standard geometrically and mostly limited to loads
not exceeding 15 tons. Substantial sections of most roads traverse unstable
terrain and are subject to landslides and washaways particularly in the
wetter season. About 60% of the provincial roads and almost all the council
roads are in poor condition which inhibits movement of essential government
services, occasionally isolates large parts of the population from the
provincial capital and district headquarters, makes transport of agricultural
produce difficult and costly, reduces life expectancy of vehicles and signi-
ficantly increases road maintenance and vehicle operating costs. The road
policy articulated by the provincial government places priority on maintenance
and upgrading of provincial roads to provide year-round access. Instead of
concentrating on a few provincial roads, the maintenance policy has



- 13 -
been to spread the limited resources over the entire network, with a view to
keeping all provincial roads open most of the year. The present level of
maintenance expenditures on provincial roads (K 3,500/km)/1 is generally
satisfactory for roads that have been upgraded; however, for unimproved roads
it is inadequate to ensure year-round passability. Maintenance expenditures
are high because of the unfavorable climatic and geotechnical factors. The
Department of Works and Supply (DWS)/2 is responsible for maintenance of
national highways and provincial roads; equipment-intensive methods are
employed, using labor as required. The LGCs are responsible for maintenance
of feeder and access roads, for which they get a maintenance subsidy
(K 550/km) from the provincial government; lack of adequate maintenance by the
LGCs has resulted in the generally impassable condition of these roads.
2.20      Agricultural Support Services.  These include extension, marketing
support, input supply and farmer training. The provincial DPI undertakes all
these activities, but mainly concentrates on extension. It has a staff of
70, who are organized along functional lines - livestock, crops, and fores-
try. In general, crop extension has been inadequate, and little effort has
gone towards commercial crops despite their importance as a source of income.
In forestry, the focus is on distribution of seedlings (particularly casuar-
ina), while in livestock the emphasis has been on introduction of sheep,
goats and poultry. While the ratio of extension staff /3 to farm families
(1:600) is adequate, the effectiveness of extension has been limited. Lack
of experienced staff and a proper work program, inadequate training, and
limitations imposed by a shortage of transport, poor road conditions and
inadequate living facilities in districts have particularly contributed to
the low effectiveness of extension. Extension has also been traditionally
restricted by the fact that crops and livestock are normally looked after by
women while extension officers are usually men (para. 3.12). Another serious
constraint to delivery of agricultural services is the lack of an extension
methodology which would be effective in a highly fragmented society with
uneven distribution of agricultural work among men and women. Moreover,
there is currently no regular farmer training program or adaptive research of
any significance in the province. Measures to develop a culturally appro-
priate extension methodology and strengthen extension services are included in
the proposed project.
2.21      The DPI operates three agricultural centers (IBRD Map No. 15770).
These are: (a) Taluma Center, located in the high altitude zone (above
/1 Includes routine, periodic and emergency maintenance and selective
improvements.
/2 DWS is a national department. Its branch in each province undertakes
construction and maintenance of all provincial buildings and roads on
behalf of the provincial government.
/3 District level staff.



- 14 -
2,200 m), which is presently producing and distributing seed potatoes, and
operating a small tractor hire service for the commercial farmers in the area;
(b) a poultry distribution center at Wappenamanda for breeding of chickens and
ducks for distribution to villagers; and (c) an orchid collection center at
Laigam./l While the Laigam center's emphasis is currently on orchid collec-
tion and classification, it has started to supply flowers in limited
quantities to the export markets. Being located in one of the least developed
districts in the province, its purchases of flowers contribute an important
source of income for farmers in that area. DPI also operates three forest
nurseries for producing and distributing eucalyptus and casuarina seedlings
(200,000 seedlings/year) and high quality planting material for coffee
(100,000 seedlings/year) enabling additional plantings of about 200 ha of
forestry and 40 ha of coffee. DPI owns or will shortly acquire about 900 ha
in four blocks of land which are easily accessible and have little alternative
use; swamps constitute most of this land. It has already established a
forestry plantation on one of these blocks.
2.22      Agricultural Marketing.  Marketing of coffee and pyrethrum is well
organized and functions well. Coffee buying is handled by private entre-
preneurs. In the case of pyrethrum, DPI assists the smallholder in view of
the lack of private buyers as farmers are widely scattered and access is
difficult. DPI purchases the crops, but subsequent baling, transport and sale
to the factory (in Kagamuga, Western Highlands Province) are in the hands of
private operators. With improvement in road access, DPI expects to gradually
withdraw from this task and encourage the private sector as it has done for
other crops. Until 1979, farmers sold their vegetables at the GLC operated
marketing depot. Mainly due to managerial problems, GLC closed the depot in
that year, and since then production appears to have declined.  While limited,
individual buyers continue to purchase vegetables in Enga, and a large
proportion of this eventually ends in the FMC depot in Mount Hagen. In
addition to this channel, farmers sell their produce (mainly sweet potatoes)
at rural markets operated by LGCs. Since demand for vegetables is generally
limited within the province, the price obtained and quantities traded at: these
markets are low compared to markets in the large urban centers. Establishment
of a permanent marketing facility in the province, which is linked to the
national market, is needed to maintain and expand this important source of
income (para. 3.13).
2.23      Health.  The current services and programs provided by the health
system include curative services, maternal and child health services, family
planning, nutrition, health education, and endemic disease control programs.
Access to health facilities in the province (IBRD Map No. 15771) is among the
lowest in the country (Annex 1, Table 4). Moreover, a large number of these
facilities are either in dilapidated condition or require extensions, and
there is also a shortage of trained health personnel.  Approximately 30% of
children (under 5) are malnourished, and it is estimated that a further 3% of
all children are mentally or physically retarded by poor nutrition. Among
/1 Taluma and Laigam centers are closely linked.



- 15 -
the various causes given by nutritionists and field workers for malnutrition,
the more prominent are an absolute shortage of food, inappropriate eating
practices, frequent infection and poor access to health facilities.
2.24      Education.  The formal education system in the province (IBRD Map
No. 15771) has expanded rapidly in recent years, particularly at the primary
school level. Thus in the last five years enrollment in primary schools
has increased by 63%, while secondary school enrollment doubled. Despite
these gains, on most educational indices, Enga ranks last of the provinces
(Annex 1, Table 5). Isolation and the high cost of living discourage
teachers from coming to Enga, particularly in the case of community school
teachers. Additionally, long distances prevent students from joining the
secondary schools. Over the past three decades considerable work has been
done in nonformal education in the province, particularly by the voluntary
agencies; the province has had an adult education officer since 1976. While
there have been some unsuccessful programs, on balance there exists a tested
base for expansion of these activities.
2.25      Community Development Services.  These services are directed towards
facilitating adjustment to social change, encouraging inter-clan cohesion and
promoting national integration and include community educational meetings,
youth programs, woman's advancement programs, sports and other social
development programs. At present these activities lack direction and are
very limited because of lack of staff, vehicles and facilities at the
headquarters and district level.
2.26      Business Extension.  These services are weak and passive, basically
responding to demand rather than promoting business. While it would be
unrealistic to expect a rapid increase in commercial activity at Enga's
present stage of development, a number of opportunities (trade stores,
transport, contracting) exist for promoting entrepreneurs in the province.
Moreover, if the Porgera gold mine materializes, there would be substantial
demand for commercial services. The provincial government places high
priority on strengthening business development activities in order to expand
the monetary sector of the economy and, in the long run, the provincial tax
base.
2.27      Media Services.  The Office of Information is responsible for,
among other things, communication and media support to all extension
divisions of the Government. The provision of services is very poor as the
Office is inexperienced and inadequately staffed and equipped. Given the
need for effective communications techniques and materials for success of all
types of extension, the provincial government is keen on improving information
services.
2.28      Electrification.  This is limited to a few government centers.
Grid connection is unfeasible because of unfavorable terrain and population
distribution and density. Diesel generators and microhydros supply



- 16 -
electricity in the province. The latter is being promoted by the Government
because of its cost and maintenance advantages, and is particularly suitable
in Enga given the land form and rainfall.
2.29      Non-Government Organizations (NGOs).  The NGOs, have been very
active in the provision of social services. They operate the provincial
hospital, and a number of health centers and schools. For many of these
facilities the national/provincial government contributes part of the
operating expenses./l The NGOs also undertake numerous training programs for
farmers, health personnel, women and tradesmen at a number of vocational
centers; however, these activities have been limited because of lack of funds
and inadequate facilities. In view of the importance of these activities to
provincial development, they would be strengthened under the proposed project.
2.30      Government Revenues and Expenditures.  In 1981, total provincial
government revenues are estimated to amount to about K 9.2 million; about 99%
of this would be transferred from the national budget, with the remaining
coming from the province mainly as derivation grants,/2 sales taxes and head
taxes (Annex 1, Table 6).  While most provinces rely heavily on national
government financing for development and recurrent expenditures, the situation
in Enga is particularly severe as the low level of market activity severely
limits the scope for internal revenue generation. Although Enga depends
heavily on the national budget, per capita expenditures and revenue transfers
from the center are the second lowest of all the provinces. In 1981, per
capita expenditures and revenue transfers would be K 56 and K 54, respec-
tively, compared to the average for all provinces of K 81 and K 77. The
proposed project is viewed by the National Government as a vehiclk- which wcwild
not only channel larger resources to Enga but also ensure that incremental
expenditures are in line with development priorities.
2.31      In 1981, revenues are allocated as follows: infrastructure (38%),
education (27%), health (13%), administration (12%), agriculture (7%), and
others (3%). About 55% of expenditures were for provincial government
operating costs, 16% for road maintenance, and the remaining 29% for capital
works, mainly road upgrading, schools and health facilities. The pattern of
expenditures in the past has been generally similar and reflects the priority
attached by the provincial government to social services and infrastructure in
order to initiate establishment of the minimum necessary base for development.
/1 The Government and NGOs enter into standardized operating agreements
which spell out the responsibilities and duties of each party.
/2 Reimbursement of export duty on exports originating from province.



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.01      Enga Provincial Development Plan.  The proposed project is a time
slice of the Enga Plan, which was prepared by the provincial government with
assistance from the National Government. The latter initiated this exercise
in the context of its policy of promoting development of LDPs (para. 1.10).
The Plan is the pioneering effort of a long-term program aimed at achieving
the following major economic and social development objectives in Enga: (a)
improving communications so as to strengthen links between the government and
the people; (b) promoting integration between the dissimilar and often
antagonistic clans with a view to reducing tribal conflicts and creating
conditions conducive to development; (c) increasing productivity and
production in the agricultural sector in order to reduce land pressures,
increase nutrition, incomes and the standard of living of the people; (d)
strengthening government services to improve their effectiveness; and (e)
increasing the provincial economic and revenue base by fostering growth of
the trade and services sector. Achieving the above would take a very long
time because of the poor development base, limited cultivable land in the
medium term and, importantly, the difficulty of inducing change in a society
just emerging from a neolithic setting. Change is desired strongly by the
provincial population who realize that others in the country are more
"modern" and that from this modernity stems an improved standard of living.
Their most frequently articulated wants are better roads, health services,
schools and opportunities to increase cash income.
3.02      The main objectives of the Plan are: (a)  to strengthen the agri-
cultural, manpower, entrepreneurial, infrastructure and institutional platform
which could effectively support efforts towards achieving the above-mentioned
economic and social development objectives; and (b) to increase production of
cash crops through rehabilitation and additional planting, covering a combined
area of about 1,100 ha, giving particular attention to minimizing any adverse
effect on land availability for food crops. By focusing on improving the
physical and human resource base, the Plan would satisfy the minimum necessary
conditions of development. Expenditures (capital and recurrent) proposed
under the plan amount to about K 21 million ($34 million),/l over six years
and include the following components /2: (a) infrastructure investments
(42%) comprising: (i) selective improvements to high priority roads with a
view to improving passability and opening potential agriculturally usable
areas; and (ii) housing and other priority infrastructure; (b) a health
/1 Baseline costs (excluding contingencies) in April 1981 prices.
/2 Figures in parenthesis are percentage of base line costs.



- 18 -
program (18%) aimed at improving the rural health system through upgrading the
aid post system and health centers and subcenters; (c) an agricultural
component (14%) aimed at: (i) establishing a program of adaptive researchn
and strengthening extension to improve productivity and expand production of
subsistence and cash crops; (ii) expanding forestry extension and seedling
production to reforest fallow and other land; and (iii) promoting livestock
production and distribution to improve nutrition and increase incomes; (d)
commercial assistance and training (9%) intended to provide contractor
assistance, training of tradesmen, and strengthening of business development
services; (e) institution building (7%) focuses on measures to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of government services and its planning and
implementation capacity; (f) an education (7%) component intended to provide
vocational training particularly to women, and improve efficiency and
coverage of the formal school system; and (g) community development (4%) to
strengthen community services, with a view to involving people in the
economic and social development process, fostering nation building and
assisting the people to make an orderly transition to a more modern way of
life.
3.03      A positive feature of the Plan is the involvement of local leaders,
technocrats and people in its preparation. The criteria underlying the Plan's
design include the following: (a) selection of components which would promote
key development objectives; (b) limitation of new activities and concentration
on improvement and expansion of existing activities which directly support
the Plan's objectives, in recognition of the provincial government's limited
absorptive capacity and organizational weaknesses. A limited number of new
initiatives are being proposed, particularly in agriculture, education and
community development to fill basic deficiencies which limit development
but are currently not addressed; and (c) recognition that the components and
the envisaged pace of change must be feasible in the sociocultural setting in
question. When viewed in the context of the constraints, priorities and
limited options available to the province, the Plan concept is sound.  The
large investments in the productive support components are needed at Enga's
present stage of development - a clan-oriented and primitive society inhabit-
ing a remote and poorly serviced province. Investments in infrastructure,
health, institution-building and education reflect the poor condition and
shortage of critical infrastructure in the province, poor health of the
people, weak and low level of government services, and the need to enable
nationals to benefit from and participate in economic development; investments
in social services and commercial assistance are needed to bring about
cohesion among the people, and encourage and orient them towards business
and commercial activities and thus expand the provincial economic base.
Further, these investments complement the efforts in the agricultural sector,
and without them, the agricultural investments are not likely to be success-
ful. The low level of economic activity in the province and the inadequate
economic base limit the prospects of nonagricultural commercial investments
at this stage.



- 19 -
3.04      The types of agricultural activities being proposed are commensu-
rate with requirements of the first stage of agricultural development i.e.,
establishment of an adaptive research program and the strengthening of
extension, as well as the need to address nutrition and fuelwood requirements.
The absence of credit and any significant increase in cropped area within
the Plan period reflect that: (a) the Plan addresses the problems of a
subsistence system wherein physical and social constraints militate against
any significant expansion of cultivable land in the medium term; and (b) the
institutional and technological base is still very weak. The strengthening
and expansion of the latter, through this and successive plans, coupled with
improvements in roads and the growing awareness of the people, would gradually
pave the way for expansion in marketed and nonmarketed output of the
agricultural sector.
3.05      Project Formulation.  Originally, the Government proposed the entire
Plan for Bank financing. However, as a result of discussions (during apprai-
sal) on how best to keep the Plan manageable and financially replicable, it
was decided to carry out the Plan in two phases of four years each, with the
first phase constituting the scope of the proposed project. The thrust of the
appraisal philosophy centered around the following: (a) ensuring that the
Plan and the project content were fully supportive of the development objec-
tives; (b) keeping the size of the first phase modest to ensure compatibility
with the implementation capacity of provincial agencies; (c) improving cost
effectiveness by taking a least-cost approach and merging certain overlapping
activities; (d) staging activities over the two phases to reflect their rela-
tive priority. As a result, in the first phase the relative share of compo-
nents for agriculture and institution-building increased, while those for
infrastructure and commerce declined. The infrastructure component was
significantly reduced because a large number of lower priority roads were
deferred to the second phase; and (e) ensuring that project requirements are
in line with the Government's existing organizational arrangements and
procedures.
General Description
3.06      The project comprises the entire first four-year phase (1982-85)
of the provincial Plan./l Its overall objectives and the scope of its
/1 The proposed project would be part of the National Public Expenditures
Plan (NPEP) for 1982-85. Like all other NPEP projects, it consists of
very specific and detailed activities (about 50 activities). The
National Government follows this practice in order to ensure greater
control and to limit discretion in regard to financial and physical
aspects, in recognition of the general weaknesses in the government
agencies. While some aggregation of activities is done in this report,
in general the titles and detailed cost format presented here follow
closely those indicated in the NPEP document to avoid any confusion and
inconsistency.



- 20 -
components are essentially the same as those for the entire Plan and its com-
nents (para. 3.02). Expenditures (capital and recurrent) envisaged under the
proposed project amount to about K 8.3 million ($12.4 million)/l or 40% of the
Plan. Of the total project investments, the infrastructure component accounts
for 27%; agriculture 21%; health 17%; education 8%; commerce 6%; institution
building 18%; and community development 3%.
Detailed Features /2
1. Agricultural Development ($2.62 million)/3
3.07      The agricultural component emphasizes a holistic approach to growth
of the subsistence sector through interventions in the following three key
subsectors - crops, forestry and livestock (IBRD Map No. 15770). Efforts in
the three subsectors are staged over the project period to ensure a gradual
buildup of DPITs work program and to reflect their relative priority - the
crops program being initiated mainly in the first year, forestry in the second
and livestock in the third year. Details of activities within the three
subcomponents are given below (paras. 3.08-3.16).
Crop Development ($1.77 million)
3.08      This subcomponent would strengthen subsistence and cash crop support
services, and comprises the following interrelated activities.
3.09      Subsistence System and Cash Crop Support Team ($1.1 million).  The
project would establish a four man technical team whose objective would be to
introduce better technologies and practices (presently available and to be
developed) with a view to increasing production of both subsistence and cash
crops. The team would consist of a land use specialist, as the team leader, a
field horticulturist and a research horticulturist responsible for subsistence
systems improvement, and a cash crop extension specialist for promoting coffee
and cardamom. As these specialists are likely to be expatriates, qualified
national staff would be recruited as counterparts (para. 4.09). Given the
interrelationships between subsistence and cash crops within the Enga farming
system, close coordination and links between efforts to promote the two are
11 Baseline costs (excluding contingencies) in April 1981 prices.
/2 Detailed description of components is given in Project Files.
/3 Baseline costs excluding contingencies.



- 21 -
important and therefore these efforts are being undertaken jointly. The team
would build upon work, relating to the above subjects, already completed and
liaise closely with similar activities underway elsewhere in the Highlands
(particularly under the Southern Highlands Project) so as to avoid duplication
of effort and where possible complement these efforts. The team would be
located in Wabag and work under the supervision of the assistant secretary in
charge of the provincial DPI. The project would finance the team's full costs
including houses, vehicles, and incremental salaries and operating costs.
3.10      Promoting growth in the subsistence system would form the major
responsibility of the team and would be effected through the following means:
(a) promoting known technology (e.g. use of coffee skin as fertilizer)
immediately to increase food crop yields particularly in areas where land
pressure is increasing or where soil fertility is low; (b) providing to
farmers, on a trial basis, seeds and planting materials of high-yielding
varieties and selected food crops to increase nutritional quality and food
production. Distribution of these inputs would be undertaken through field
trips and using the district extension staff; (c) developing improved
technology and land use practices which are ecologically desirable and cul-
turally acceptable. In addition the team would undertake the following:
(a) assist with the base-line survey (para. 4.08); (b) investigate
agricultural potential of sparsely populated areas; (c) undertake land use and
land capability studies; (d) advise farmers on marketing of surplus food and
cash crops; and (e) in conjunction with the extension specialist
(para. 3.29), train DPI extension staff in matters relating to subsistence
production. The team leader would also recruit short-term consultants,
researchers and university students to undertake work on priority areas of the
subsistence system, some of which have already been identified, e.g.
nutritional and food intake survey, labor availability and economics of major
agricultural activities, monitoring on a sample basis population and land use
changes, ecology of mounding, role of pigs in nutrients recycling and soil
erosion (para. 3.34). The efforts of this team are expected to result in
increasing yields and cropping intensity, improving soil management,
diversifying food production, and reducing the need for large amounts of land
for fallow; the latter would make available additional land for food and cash
crops. Attainment of these objectives would be slow, however, given the
difficulty of access and of inducing change in a subsistence system.
3.11      Recognizing the need for increasing farmers- incomes, the other
important aim of the team would be to promote productivity and production
of cash crops. Promotion of cash crops would be carefully undertaken to
assure that it does not divert land from food crops. The main focus would be
on coffee and cardamom /1 development and to a lesser extent on pyrethrum
/1 The agronomic requirements of coffee and cardamom are generally similar
and the two can be cultivated in combination. Cardamom is a new crop and
trials conducted in the province have yielded promising results.



22 -
which would be supported through the Taluma center (para. 3.12). Specifically
the cash crops specialist would: (a) advise coffee farmers on better crop
husbandry and encourage rehabilitation where needed; (b) train extension staff
in coffee and cardamom production and investigate suitable sites for expansion
of these crops; (c) establish a marketing system for smallholder cardamom
production; and (d) establish four pilot nurseries (totalling about 2 ha)
which would provide high quality planting material for coffee and cardamom.
By the fifth year these nurseries would permit additional coffee plantings of
about 200 ha/year and about 20 ha/year of cardamom. Total plantings during
the project period are expected to be about 400 ha of coffee and 40 ha of
cardamom spread throughout suitable areas in the province. In the second
phase and subsequent years, the cropped area is expected to increase
gradually, but significantly, in the less densely populated areas as a result
of improvement in roads and extension services, and the demonstration benefits
of the pilot coffee and cardamon estate (para. 3.35). Some expansion of these
crops is expected to take place in the land-short areas also through
availability of fallow land. The team would submit the following to the SSC,
and the Bank for comments: (a) a preliminary report by December 1982,
outlining work initiated and completed, scope of the future work program, and
recommendations on immediately applicable improved technology and practices;
and (b) a final report, by June 1985, containing recommendations on policies
and future activities in the field of subsistence agriculture and cash
cropping (para. 4.12),
3.12      Research and Farmer Demonstration/Training Centers ($541,000).
The project would support the following: (a) expansion of two agricultural
centers ($486,000) to increase the scope of their activities by financing
additional classrooms and other training and research facilities, trainee
accommodation, staff housing and vehicles, and incremental salaries and
operating costs. The DPIs agricultural center at Taluma (para. 2.21) would
be expanded to undertake crop trials and seed production of pyrethrum and
suitable high altitude vegetables and crops, and train farmers in these crops
and livestock (para. 3.16). For this purpose DPI would recruit a temperate
zone crops and a livestock instructor and a pyrethrum agronomist./l The
GLC's center at Mukuramanda would also be expanded to increase farmer
training courses in coffee and low altitude vegetables and pig rearing and
poultry./2 To undertake this, a crops and a livestock instructor would be
recruited by GLC. These two centers complement each other in that one would
promote development in the high altitude areas with the other focussing on
low altitude areas.  The staff at both centers would liaise closely with the
/1  National DPI's pyrethrum agronomist is being assigned to Taluma.  The
other two staff would be volunteers, with the livestock instructor
preferably a woman.
/2  Farmer training and trials for cardamom would be done at the estate
(para. 3.35).



- 23 -
subsistence team; (b) continuation of funding ($55,000) from 1983 onwards /1
for the Highlands Orchid Collection Center (para. 2.21) in view of the
development nature of this activity, its potential as a commercial crop in
high altitude areas, source of revenue for farmers in an agriculturally poor
area, and its scientific and potential touristic value. Because of lack of
adequate links with export markets, extension activities (which would be
undertaken through the Taluma center) would be limited in the first few
years, but are subsequently expected to increase considerably as an assured
market develops.
3.13      Vegetable Marketing Depot ($135,000).  The project would finance
the construction of a marketing depot in Wabag. Discussions are underway,
between the provincial government and FMC, on the latter operating this depot
and linking it to its national marketing system. Operating arrangements
are expected to be completed by mid-1982 and construction would commence
thereafter. While the size and design of the facility would be decided
after the management arrangements are made, preliminary analysis suggests
a need for a facility capable of handling about 1,500 tons annually./2
Forestry Development ($0.60 million)
3.14      Forestry Extension and Nurseries ($273,000).  The project would
support establishment of forestry nurseries and strengthening of forestry
extension. Four nurseries would be established which would produce about
300,000 seedlings per annum. The main seedling would be casuarina which would
be planted in fallow land (to improve soil fertility), around houses and on
deforested steep valley sides and high altitude grasslands. In addition
eucalyptus and pinus would be produced mainly for establishment of the
forestry plantation (para. 3.15). "Kit sets" for establishing a small 2-bed
nursery would also be distributed to schools and suitable villages, who would
also receive three months of assistance from a forestry officer. The
promotion of these "kit sets" is intended to reduce the pressure on
government-financed nurseries and if successful would be expanded in the
second phase. In addition, a range of small (0.5 ha) demonstration woodlots
would be established on clan lands to demonstrate better forestry management
techniques. One additional district forest officer would be recruited to
fully staff the forestry service at the district level; these officers are
responsible for management of the nurseries, providing extension advice to the
farmers and distribution of seedlings.
3.15      Forestry Plantation ($326,000).  This activity would expand the
ongoing forestry plantation aimed at, mainly, creating a forestry reserve of
timber in accessible areas, utilization of presently idle land, and training
of forestry field staff. Under the project, 215 ha would be planted, mostly
/1 The center's operation is being funded through the on-going NPEP until
1982.
/2 The capacity would be expanded under subsequent projects as vegetable
production increases.



- 24 -
with eucalyptus in poorly drained areas and pinus in well drained soils.
Complete control of the plantation activities would allow DPI to monitor
technical and financial coefficients. Poorly drained areas would be drained
about 12 months in advance of planting, through construction of main and
lateral drains. Drainage plans for these areas would be prepared by drainage
experts from the PNG Geological Service and would be ready by end of 1982.
To undertake the expanded plantation activities DPI would recruit two
additional forestry officers.
Livestock Development ($243,000)
3.16      The emphasis of livestock development is on increasing the distri-
bution of livestock to the villagers for fattening, for own consumption as
well as for sale, through the following: (a) establishing a ruminant
livestock breeding center ($195,000) on 140 ha of government land for
breeding and distribution of sheep, goats and buffalo. The project would
finance civil works, breeding stock, vehicles, salaries and operating costs.
The center would be fully developed by 1990, at which time its annual output
would be about 200 sheep, 300 goats and 20 buffaloes, and it would be
self-financing. It would be managed by an expatriate volunteer for a period
of three years with a national trainee expected to replace him after this
period, and it would maintain close links with the Taluma center (para. 3.12)
which would provide the short-term training for animal husbandry; and (b)
continuation of funding ($48,000) from 1984 onwards /1 for the poultry
breeding center at Wappenamanda. The center was established in 1980 and
would reach full production in 1988 at which time it would be distributing
about 19,000 ducklings and 2,000 chicks to villagers. Distribution would
be undertaken by DPI district livestock officers who would also provide
technical assistance. Emphasis would be given to distribution in the less
developed parts of the province. The scale of both livestock activities is
small, but is expected to be expanded in follow-on phases if response is
good.
2. Infrastructure Development: ($3.42 million)
3.17      Roads ($1.87 million).  The project would fund selective improve-
ments in six high priority roads (totalling 92 km) which have been chosen
taking into consideration the following: present condition and utili-
zation of road by essential government services; population served; and
potential development impact on traversed area. The roads to be improved
are (IBRD Map No. 15769): Tsak Valley Road (13 km); Highway Junction to
Meriamanda (17 km); Meriamanda to Kompian (21 km); Yampu to Anditale (14 kim);
Highway Junction to Yalis (11 km); and Yalis to Pawari (16 km).  A condition
/1 The center is funded through the ongoing NPEP until 1983.



- 25 -
survey of each of the roads has been done by DWS engineers and the essential
improvement works needed to provide all-weather access have been identified
and costed (Annex 2, Table 3). Work involved includes resheeting, slip
rectification, regrading and bridging/culverting and would cost an average
of about $22,800/km. Improvements in the Yalis to Pawari section and the
Highway to Meriamanda section would be initiated after arrangements have
been finalized for establishment of the estate and upgrading of the sawmill,
respectively (para. 3.35).
3.18      The provincial DWS would be responsible for implementing the road
subcomponent using plant intensive construction methods. However, in line
with its policy, DWS would promote and use the limited private provincial
construction capacity for the construction of small bridges and culverts and
for regravelling; private provincial construction capacity is, at present,
limited to plant hire firms which have potential to undertake small con-
tracts. In 1980, the province spent about K 4,000-5,000/km for maintenance
of these roads, which covered both routine, periodic and emergency
maintenance and selective improvements. With the latter being accelerated
under the project, maintenance expenditures are estimated to decline to
about K 3,500/km and total about K 340,000 annually from year 5 onwards.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from the government that it would
allocate annually maintenance funds amounting to K 3,500/km for provincial
roads (including project roads) and K 550/km for council roads; further it
was also agreed that these levels would be revised periodically to take into
account inflation and other changes in condition and usage of individual
roads. This level of maintenance would ensure the adequacy of the total
provincial road system, which is crucial to the proposed development effort.
3.19      The project would assist DWS initiate a rudimentary traffic
counting system in Enga using mainly high school students. The system would
be established by December 1982 and would initially cover the main provincial
roads, including project roads. Total costs for operating this system would
be about $39,000 over four years.
3.20      Rural Electrification ($380,000).  The project would finance
installation of three microhydros in isolated government stations to provide
power to aid posts, primary schools, government offices and houses; unit
sizes are expected to range from 30-40 KW. Preliminary engineering and
layout have already been completed; detailed engineering would be undertaken
prior to installation. Installation of these units requires simple civil
works and does not need any specialized engineering skills. The provincial
DWS would undertake the engineering and installation work and consult with
GLC, as required, who have installed a number of these units in the province.
DWS would be responsible for periodic maintenance, while routine clearing of
debris, silt removal and lubrication would be the responsibility of a
designated officer at the government station.



- 26 -
3.21      Provincial Building Program ($1.0 million).  Under the project, DWS
would construct an office block, provincial store and single officer's
quarters at Wabag and government offices at two district centers. Standard
government building designs would be used which are satisfactory. In addition
DWS would construct about 50 houses, and project-related health, education and
community development facilities (costs included under the respective
activities), based on standard designs. For houses and buildings to be
constructed under this and the second phase project, DWS would develop about
100 serviced sites (at an average cost of about $2,500/site), on government
land in the six main government centers.
3.22      Strengthening Provincial DWS ($168,000).  To enable the provincial
DWS to undertake the required infrastructure works under the project, it would
be strengthened with the following additional staff: one roads foreman, two
architectural/buildings foremen, one draftsman and one electrical foreman.
The project would finance houses and vehicles, for the above staff./l
3. Health Component ($2.12 million)
3.23      Health Centers and Subcenters ($1.0 million).  The project would
finance rehabilitation/expansion of four health centers and subcenters
which are in dilapidated condition and inadequate for the size of population
served, and establishment of two new health subcenters (IBRD Map No. 15771).
In addition 11 centers and 7 subcenters would be provided with basic
equipment packages, each costing K 6,000 and K 4,000, respectively. The
project would also finance a two-man consultancy team consisting of a hospital
planner and architect for a period of three months to draw up an appropriate
plan for development of a referral hospital in Enga./2 Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that consultants would be engaged on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.24      Aid Post System ($1.0 million).  The project would support
improvement in the aid post system through the following: (a) about 45 aid
posts and aid post orderly (APO) housing would be upgraded through replace-
ment of bush material by new permanent material. Materials will be prepared
in prefabricated kits by DWS, and erection would be supervised by the APO's;
cost per kit is about K 8,500; (b) essential equipment packages would be
/1  Project-related incremental salaries and overheads of DWS are included
in the cost of each civil works item.
/2  GLC which operates the provincial hospital has decided to close down
this facility in about two years.



- 27 -
supplied to all the aid posts, each package costing about K 200; and (c) the
APO and nurse-aid training facilities attached to the provincial hospital
would be upgraded and expanded. The school will have a yearly intake of 25-30
students, and would help fulfill the province's health manpower needs. In
addition an in-service training program for APOs would be initiated which
would have an annual intake of about 10.
3.25      Health Monitoring System ($120,000).  The health monitoring and
reporting system would be improved under the project. A health monitoring
consultant would be hired for about four months to assist in this task. A
health auxiliary would be recruited in the division of health who would be
trained by the consultant and who would supervise the reporting system. The
project would finance consultant's costs and incremental staff salaries and
operating costs. Assurances were received at negotiations that the consultant
would be engaged on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4. Education Component ($1.05 million)
3.26      The project would improve the efficiency and coverage of the formal
education system and expand vocational education through supporting the
following activities (IBRD Map No. 15771): (a) Teachers Inducment Allowance
($20,000). Additional allowance would be provided for primary school teachers
to compensate for working in remote areas with poor living and working condi-
tion. The additional allowance would amount to K 75/annum/l and benefit about
60 teachers in 10 schools; (b) High School Facilities ($490,000).  A boarding
facility (for 150 students) would be provided for a newly established high
school to increase access to high school education for students from outlying
areas. The facility-s design is based on standard designs and is satisfac-
tory; (c) Vernacular Education ($81,000). A pilot program of vernacular
instruction would be initiated at the preprimary school level. Instruction
in the vernacular is expected to have a salutory effect on student performance
later in primary school, and also result in increased enrollment and decreased
dropout. By the fourth year 20 such courses would be in operation affecting
about 500 children; these courses would be conducted at classrooms to be
constructed next to the community schools. Teachers would be selected from
within the community and would have at least six years of education. A
course coordinator would be recruited to develop the program, train teachers
and supervise implementation. The project would finance staff salaries,
coordinator-s vehicle and house, material for classroom,/2 books, and opera-
ting costs. Being a pilot program, it would be evaluated after it has been
/l 38% of present inducement allowance of K 200 p.a.
/2 Classrooms would be constructed by self-help.



- 28 -
in operation for a sufficient number of years;/l (d) Vocational Training
(460,000). The project would expand vocational training at the NGO facilities
at Yampu and Wanepop (para. 2.29), by financing dormitories, classrooms/
workshop, vehicles, staff housing, staff salaries, and incremental operating
costs. Additional activities aimed at women would be undertaken at the Yampu
center including training in food gardening, nutrition, health, sewing and
home economics; yearly intake would be about 20. Women graduating from this
center are expected to act as agents of change irn their clans. The carpentry
center at Wanepop would be expanded to double capacity to 35 students, so as
to alleviate the shortage of trained carpenters/joiners.
5. Community Development ($0.36 million)
3.27      The project would enhance community development services by
constructing community development centers ($342,000) in three of the six
districts of the province /2, and strengthening community and family
services section ($20,000) through staff upgrading and provision of housing.
Together these activities would enable a concerted focus on national integ-
ration and socio-economic awareness. The centers will consist of a simple
building, plus adjacent sports grounds and facilities, and serve as focal
points for economic and social development activities within the districts
they serve. Meetings and training sessions in agriculture, health, family
planning, adult education, business opportunities and other topics of interest
to the population will be organized at the centers with assistance from
concerned divisions. In addition, the centers will serve as general social
centers for gatherings, reading, video/film viewing and sports. Because the
districts offer few opportunities for social interaction outside of
traditional social gatherings, these centers have the potential for
stimulating social interaction that cuts across narrow local loyalties and
brings people from many groups together in constructive activities. One
center would be constructed in the first year of the project. Being a new
initiative, its impact and the beneficiaries- response would be evaluated for
about two years by the socio-economic evaluator (para. 3.32). Based on his
recommendations, two new centers would be established in the fourth year with
appropriate modification in building layout, and operating procedures. The
project would finance construction of the centers, incremental staff salaries
and houses, vehicles and other operating costs.
/1 Evaluation would test the relationship between vernacular teaching and
the following variables: (a) student achievement; (b) parental attitude
- towards schooling; (c) effect on enrollment and dropout rates. Funds
for this evaluation would be provided under the Bank-financed primary
education project (Ln. 1934-PNG, Cr. 1087-PNG).
/2 Centers for the other three districts will be established in the second-
phase project.



- 29 -
6. Commercial Assistance and Training ($0.74 million)
3.28      The project would support the following:  (a) strengthening of the
division of commerce ($275,000) with a view to expand coverage of business
extension. Two additional business development officers would be recruited
and posted at the district level to promote entrepreneurs and provide exten-
sion on business development. In addition a building trades technical
officer would be recruited who will be responsible for assisting local build-
ing contractors in tendering and bidding procedures, implementing projects
through on-site visits and maintaining close liaison with DWS. Given the
large expansion in building construction arising out of this and subsesequent
projects, there is considerable potential for developing a viable small-scale
building contracting industry; and (b) establishing a trade training
(carpentry and plumbing/welding) program ($463,000) to cater for an acute
shortage of trained tradesmen in the province. Two trainers would be
recruited in DWS since it is the main employer of tradesmen in the province,
who would provide on-the-job training to about 200 tradesmen during project
period. The project would finance housing, vehicles, salaries, and operating
costs.
7. Institutional Development ($2.17 million)
3.29      Organizational and Staff Development ($650,000).  The project
would establish a provincial division of Organization and Staff Development
whose objective would be to perform the following: (a) review all matters
relating to public administration including organizational structure and
management at the headquarters and district level, planning, budguting and
implementation systems and procedures, management reporting system, field
extension services, and work program of all line divisions and their
effectiveness in supporting development objectives; and recommend and
implement improvements and changes; (b) develop and implement an effective
staff development and extension training program; and (c) provide management
consultancy services to the other divisions. Staff will initially consist of
three expatriates (an assistant secretary, a staff development and training
officer, and an extension specialist) plus their counterparts. The project
would finance staff houses and salaries, vehicles, training and other
operating costs.
3.30      The assistant secretary, in addition to managing and coordinating
the division's work, would be responsible for the organizational development
and management consultancy aspects of the division's function. The staff
development officer would be responsible for the training aspects. The
extension specialist would examine and evaluate the content and methodology
of the present extension system of the provincial line divisions, paying
particular attention to agricultural extension, and subsequently assist



- 30 -
these in developing and implementing effective extension services. Efforts
of this newly created division are expected to streamline the provincial
organizational structure, establish a relationship between expenditures and
development objectives, improve the management reporting and information
system, strengthen planning and control, increase the capabilities of staff
and job satisfaction and in general have a salutory effect on effectiveness
of public administration in the province; recommendations arising from it
could serve as a replicable model for other provinces. The Public Service
Commission (PSC), which is responsible for improving public administration
at the national and provincial level, is very supportive of this activity.
The division would submit the following to the SSG, and the Bank for its
comments: (a) a preliminary report, by December 1982, outlining scope and
plan for future work program, and recommendations on immediately needed
training program; and (b) a final report, by June 1985, containing
evaluation of work initiated and completed and recommendations on policies
and future activities aimed at improving provincial public administration.
3.31      Finance and Management Services ($340,000).  The project would
upgrade the provincial Finance and Management Services Division through
providing urgently needed extra staff, accounting machines, and staff housing.
The additional staff include an expatriate provincial accountant, a national
trainee accountant, reimbursement clerks and support staff. The provincial
accountant would be responsible for the total provincial government
accounting, including the project, and would work closely with the
organizational division (para. 3.29) in developing the management information
system.
3.32      Implementation and Evaluation Support ($440,000).  The project
would strengthen the implementation and evaluation capacity of the provincial
government by financing a project coordinator (PC), and establishing a
Development Monitoring Unit. The PC would be essentially a facilitator
responsible for coordinating project planning and implementation (para.
4.02). The Development Monitoring Unit, consisting of an expatriate
socio-economic evaluator (rural sociologist/anthropologist) and his counter-
part, would continuously provide feedback to project management on the
socio-cultural appropriateness of project activities (para. 4.07); this is
important considering that the success of the project will hinge upon the
appropriateness of project activities to the Engan social system. The
project would finance staff salaries, houses, vehicles and operating
expenses.
3.33      Upgrading Information Services ($213,000).  The project would
support efforts to strengthen information services by upgrading the existing
media center, and providing additional staff.  The major thrust of these
efforts would be use of effective communication techniques for providing
extension; additional staff would be recruited, including a media coordinator,
graphic artist and a translator. The coordinator would maintain close



- 31 -
liaison with all extension activities of the provincial government and
provide necessary support. The project would finance civil works, staff
salaries, vehicles and incremental operating costs of the expanded media
center.
3.34      Studies and Training Fund ($525,000).  This fund would finance
salaries, consultants fees, travel and miscellaneous operating expenditures
for undertaking the following:  (a) studies, including, baseline survey,
project evaluation study design and implementation (para. 4.08), preparation
of a follow-on project, studies on priority economic and social issues and
other matters in support of the project; and (b) overseas and domestic
professional training for local staff.  The Government would submit to the
Bank for its comment, a summary outline of the scope and costs of the
studies and training, prior to their initiation (para. 4.12).
Activities Parallel to the Project
3.35      In the context of the provincial development plan, three viable
commercial projects /1 have been identified for financing outside of the
proposed Bank Group project since funds are available from commercial sources.
These projects would not only have a catalytic influence but provide partial
justification for some of the proposed components. The projects are: (a)
rehabilitation of the existing old and oversized pyrethrum processing plant
which is not expected to be operative beyond 1983. Increasing efficiency of
processing would result in both increasing competitiveness of pyrethrum
exports and also prices paid to growers, and support pyrethrum development
under the proposed project. The National Government, which owns the existing
plant, is reviewing various options and is expected to reach a decision
shortly. Financing is expected to be from supplier's credit; (b) establish-
ment of a 50 ha coffee and cardamom estate on alienated land in Lower Lai
by the Enga Investment Corporation, the investment arm of the provincial
government. DPI, particularly the cash crop specialists financed under the
project, would provide technical assistance in establishing the estate.
PNGDB would finance the project from funds under the Bank-supported credit
project (Cr-1149). The provincial government expects to submit this project
to PNGDB, for financing, by mid 1983. This estate, besides providing income
for the province, is expected to have a significant impact on promoting coffee
and cardamom production in an area which has significant potential for cash
crops. With a view to providing reasonable year-round access to this area,
the proposed project would be financing improvements in the road to Pawari;
(para. 3.17); and (c) rehabilitation of the Meriamanda sawmill, which is not
/1 Total costs of the three projects are about $650,000. Preliminary
analysis of these projects, undertaken by the plan preparation team,
indicates financial rates of return ranging from 17-28%.



- 32 -
only the largest commercial employer in the province, but important to the
development of commercial activity in the province and utilization of
provincial forest resources./l PNGDB is also expected to finance this
project, and submission of the project by the provincial government is also
expected in mid 1Q83. In conjunction with this rehabilitation, the road to
Meriamanda would be improved under the Dronosed project to provide reasonable
access to traffic associated with the mill.
Cost Estimates
3.36      Total project costs over the four-year project period (1982-85) are
estimated at about $16.0 million, including a foreign exchange costs of
about $8.0 million or 50%. Of the total costs about 3% (US$0.5 million) is
for taxes and duties. Unit prices for equipment, materials and supplies,
salaries and civil works are based on April 1981 prices.  Physical contingen-
cies total an equivalent of 5% of base costs and include 15% on roads, 7% on
houses, and 10% on other civil works; such contingencies for salaries,
vehicles and operating costs are included in baseline costs. Civil works,
vehicles and equipment, expatriate salaries, and incremental operating costs
account for 52%, 7%, 11% and 30%, respectively, of base-line costs. Price
contingencies are equivalent to 21% of baseline costs plus physical contin-
gencies, and have been calculated as follows: 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5%
for 1983-85. Price contingencies for foreign and local costs are assumed to
be same. Project costs by components is summarized in Table 3.1 (page 33)
with detailed costs in Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2.
Financing
3.37      The Bank Group would finance 50% ($8.0 million, comprising a Bank
loan of $6.0 million and an IDA credit of $2.0 million) of project cost,
equivalent to the full foreign exchange costs of $8.0 million. The national
government would provide the remaining $8.0 million (K 5.3 million). All
project funds would be fully allocated under the NPEP for 1982-85 and released
on a quarterly basis to the provincial government (para. 3.40). To help
ensure the prompt start of the project, various activities such as recruitment
of key project staff, and construction of houses and procurement of vehicles
for these staff commenced during the fourth quarter of 1981. For this reason
and to cover project expenses prior to loan signing, retroactive financing of
up to $0.8 million equivalent is proposed to help cover eligible expenditures
after September 30, 1981.
/1 The mill is owned by a local group, who have approached the provincial
government to assist them in rehabilitation of the mill.



- 33 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COSTS
F.E.
Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total           Cost
----(K million)----       --- ($ million) ---   %   (%)
/a   /a
Agriculture              1.0    0.7      1.7      1.5    1.1       2.6   21   42
Infrastructure          1.0    1.3       2.3      1.5    1.9      3.4   27   56
Health                  0.7    0.8       1.5      1.0    1.1       2.1   17   52
Education               0.4    0.3       0.7      0.6    0.4       1.0    8   40
Community development  0.1    0.1        0.2      0.2    0.2      0.4    3   50
Commercial assis-
tance & training      0.3    0.2      0.5       0.4    0.3      0.7    6   43
Institution building   0.7    0.7        1.4      1.1    1.1      2.2   18   50
Baseline Costs    4.2    4.1       8.3       6.3    6.1    12.4  100   49
Contingencies
Physical              0.2    0.3      0.5       0.3    0.5      0.8    5
Price                 0.9    0.9       1.8      1.4    1.4      2.8   23
Subtotal           1.1    1.2      2.3       1.7    1.9      3.6   28
Total Project
Costs            5.3    5.3    10.6        8.0    8.0    16.0  128   50
/a  Percentage based on '$' costs and may differ from those based on 'Kina'
costs and detailed cost tables, due to rounding.
Procurement
3.38      In view of Enga's remote location and the relatively small size /1
and scattered (spatially and temporally) nature of project activities,
international competitive bidding would not be feasible or appropriate for the
procurement of goods and civil works under the proposed project. Therefore
the procurement of buildings, housing and roads totalling US$8.5 million,/2
vehicles (US$0.3 million /2), miscellaneous equipment and furniture (US$0.7
million /2) would be undertaken through local competitive bidding procedures
which were found at appraisal to be satisfactory to the Bank. Construction of
civil works would also be carried out by Department of Works and Supply (DWS)
under force account if suitable contractors are not timely available; to
encourage contracting, it is the policy of DWS to use subcontractors for plant
and small civil works, wherever possible. Miscellaneous equipment and
furniture costing less than US$5,000 would be procured through prudent
A   About 80% of the works contracts are expected to range from $50,000-
100,000, and none are over $0.5 million.
/2 Including contingencies.



- 34 -
shopping (three bid method). Procurement documents for all contracts of
US$400,000 or more would be submitted to the Bank prior to tendering and
award.
Accounting and Auditing
3.39      Project expenditures will be accounted by DWS (Wabag) for civil
works and vehicles, the Department of Finance for staff salaries, and by the
provincial finance division for all other costs. All these accounts are
maintained according to sound accounting principles and consistently applied.
It will be the responsibility of the provincial accountant to assemble
expenditure details from all sources and prepare the quarterly financial
report /1 which will serve as a basis for the National Government s quarterly
financial review (para. 4.04), as well as for claiming reimbursements from the
Bank (para. 3.41). The project accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that: (a) copies of these audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank not
later than nine months after the end of the fiscal year; and (b) that such
audit reports would contain a separate opinion on the compliance of
expenditures with the purposes of the project, accuracy of the reimbursement
claims and the procedure and controls used for preparation of these claims.
Government Funds Flow and Bank/IDA Disbursements
3.40      All project funds would be fully allocated under the NPEP for
1982-85 and prefinanced by the National Government out of annual budget
appropriations; these would be based on annual/quarterly cash flow statement
prepared by the Department of Enga for each of the 50 activities comprising
the project. Funds would be disbursed on a quarterly basis in accordance
with normal budgetary procedures. At the close of the quarter a physical,/
financial review would be conducted by a team from the national governmentL
(para. 4.04), to review expenditures in the prior quarter.
3.41      Bank/IDA funds would be disbursed at the rate of 67% of expenditures
for civil works, expatriate staff salaries, vehicles, equipment, and the
studies and training fund. Expatriate staff salaries, vehicles and civil
works carried out by contract whose value is more than $30,000, would be
disbursed against full documentation, while statements of expenditures would
be used for equipment and the studies and training fund since they involve
numerous and small payments and for civil works carried out by force account
or by contract whose value is less than $30,000. The statements of expendi-
tures, certified by the provincial accountant and the project coordinator
(PC), and the full documentation (for items specified above) would be submit-
ted by the PC to the national finance department (para. 4.03) which in turn
would submit these to the Bank for reimbursements. Detailed documentation in
support of the statements of expenditures would be retained by the PC-s office
/1 These are standardized reports used for all NPEP projects, and would
contain itemized details of expenditures for each project activity.



- 35 -
and made available to the Bank for inspection during the course of project
supervision missions. Retroactive financing of up to $0.8 million is proposed
to finance expenditures incurred after September 30, 1981 (para. 3.37).
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1986. An estimated
disbursement schedule is given in Annex 2, Table 4. The standard disbursement
profile has not been used as it does not correctly reflect the likely funds
flow pattern under this project. The disbursements schedule is based on
mission estimates and is believed to be realistic considering the following:
(a) it is based on a careful assessment of experience under similar
Bank-financed projects in PNG and of other NPEP projects and takes into
account likely potential delays; (b) about 60% of the project consists of fast
disbursing items, i.e., civil works and vehicles; (c) project activities have
been staged over four years to permit a gradual build-up of work load and
provide ample lead time for key tasks, e.g.  staff recruitment and
procurement; (d) the project consists mainly of expansion and strengthening of
ongoing activities.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation Responsibility
4.01      The Department of Enga would be the executing agency for project
implementation. The various project components would be implemented by
existing provincial divisions, the provincial branch of DWS, and NGOs
(Annex 3, Table 1). The project's implementation, organizational and manage-
ment arrangements are designed to incorporate the National and Provincial
Governments desire that the project should complement existing provincial
programs and should not be implemented at the expense of these programs, its
management should be integrated into and strengthen the provincial adminis-
trative structure, and its implementation procedures should be consistent
with regular government procedures. These arrangements are expected to
disseminate improved management and control techniques used under the
project to the ongoing work program of the provincial government.  The
implementing agencies are generally well experienced in the majority (70%)/l
of the types of activities proposed under the project, as these are mainly
an expansion of existing activities. Prominent among the newer activities
are adaptive research, coordination and evaluation, organizational
development and contractor assistance. The expansion of existing activities
under the project ranges from 15-20% of current levels of these
activities./2 With additional staffing and coordination assistance to be
provided under the project and efforts towards organization and staff
development, all division are expected to be fully capable of implementing
their respective components.
/1 About 70% (by amount) or 60% (by number) of project activities are those
with which provincial agencies have prior experience.
/2 Expenditures liave been used as surrogate for work programs.



- 36 -
Coordination and Management
4.02      Provincial Level.  The overall responsibility for implementation of
this project will rest with the Secretary of the Department of Enga. Coordi-
nation among the implementing divisions would be effected through the existing
Secretary's Staff Committee (SSC) which meets weekly, consists of heads of all
provincial and national divisions, and is chaired by the Secretary. With the
initiation of the project, the SSC will also include the project coordinator
(PC) and the socio-economic evaluator. Coordination and implementation
arrangements and funds flow are outlined in Chart No. 23091. Given the
essentially provincial nature of this project, the SSC incorporates the key
functions and influence necessary to ensure coordination of the work program
among the various divisions and achieve project objectives and physical
targets. The PC would be responsible for coordinating and facilitating the
efforts of the various divisions in implementing the project components,
monitoring the project's progress, assisting divisions in completing
progress reports, coordinating quarterly reviews, assisting the provincial
accountant in preparation of the quarterly financial reports, and day-to-day
liaison with national government departments in matters relating to the
project. The PC would report to the First Assistant Secretary for field
services who is responsible for all the line divisions.
4.03      National Level.  The existing coordination mechanism at the national
level established for the ongoing Southern Highlands Project (,SHRDP) would
also be used under the proposed project. However, given the provincial
character of this project and the fact that all decision making and
implementation responsibility lies with the provincial government, the role
of the national staff and bodies under this project would be mainly to
provide assistance on project matters involving national departments; under
the SHRDP, these had more of a managerial role. In line with existing
arrangement, an officer each from the Office of Project Coordination (OPC) /1
within the Department of Finance and Project Implementation (PI) division /2
within the National Planning Office (NPO), will serve as Headquarters Project
Coordinator (HQPCs) for the project. Their task will be to render assistance
to the Project Coordinator in matters which are difficult to deal with from
Wabag and to liaise with and request action from national government
departments and agencies on behalf of the project, and undertake quarterly
reviews (para. 4.04). The HQPCs will not be fully occupied on this project
/1 OPC is mainly responsible for liaising with external agencies with
regards to externally funded projects, including matters relating to
disbursements, reporting etc., and ensuring that implementation of such
projects is in line with legal agreements.
/2 PI division is responsible for quarterly financial/physical review of
all NPEP projects.



- 37 -
but will have other similar responsibilities. The existing Headquarter's
Project Coordinating Committee (HQPCC) would serve as the overall facili-
tating mechanism at the national level. The members of the HQPCC would be
heads of government departments involved in the project, including inter alia
Finance, NP0, PSC, and DWS. The HQPCs are nonvoting members of this
committee with OPC acting as secretariat.
Project Implementation
4.04      Progress Review.  In accordance with established government practise
for all NPEP projects, quarterly financial and physical review of this project
would be undertaken to ensure that funds are being spent in the right manner
and for the desired purposes and that terms and conditions laid down by the
national government and the Bank are being met by the implementing agencies.
At present, the NPEP reviews are generally brief, limited to examination of
standardized quarterly physical/financial reports prepared by implementing
agencies (para. 4.06), and lack technical review. To test a viable option for
effective supervision of development projects by the national government, its
existing procedures would be strengthened for the purposes of this project.
This should lead to gradual reduction of the Bank's own supervision effort,
and augmenting the implementation capacity of the provincial government. For
this project, supervision would be as follows: (a) at the provincial level,
the PC would conduct a quarterly review subsequent to which he would submit a
report to the SSC and the HQPCs; (b) at the national level, quarterly review
w.ould be conducted jointly by the NPO and the Finance department at
headquarters.  Prior to these headquarter's reviews, a team comprising the
HQPCs would visit the province to attend the above provincial reviews. For
the second quarter this team would be assisted by sectoral specialists from
NP0, while for the fourth quarter it would be assisted by technical
specialists from national technical departments such as DWS, DPI, Education,
Health, etc. These specialists would undertake a detailed physical/technical
review with a view to assisting provincial line divisions in identifying and
solving implementation problems and providing general technical assistance.
4.05      The NPO would coordinate the field visits ensuring that these take
place no later than six weeks after the quarter and that the team spends
adequate time in the field. Based on the findings of the second and fourth
quarterly team, the NPO staff would prepare a summary report, which highlights
key problem areas and actions to be taken, and submit it to the Secretary's
Staff Committee within two weeks of the review. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the project would be supervised along the above lines.
Considering the large number of components, the Bank's supervision would focus
on key sectors (agriculture, infrastructure, and institution building which
account for about 70% of project cost), with supervision of the remaining
mostly delegated to the national government; however, in the early years of
the project, efforts would be greater than conventional projects given the
untested record of the national government.



- 38 -
4.06      Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring of the project's
physical and financial progress would be conducted on a day-to-day basis by
action officers in implementing divisions, under guidance of their respective
divisional heads and with support of the PC. In line with established
government practise these officers would prepare quarterly progress reports
using the standardized NPEP report format, which would be reviewed by the PC
and National Government-s review team (para. 4.04). Based on these quarterly
reports the PC would prepare a semi-annual progress report for submission to
the Bank through OPC. The summary report of the National Government's review
team (para. 4.05) would be attached to this progress report. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government would submit to the Bank the
semi-annual progress reports by September 15 and March 15 of each year.
4.07      Ongoing review of socio-cultural appropriateness and effectiveness
of project activities, particularly the new initiatives, would be undertaken
by the development monitoring unit (para. 3.32). Among other aspects this
unit would focus specifically on extension methodology used, response of
people to introduced crops and livestock, vernacular schooling, women s
vocational training, and community development centers. The main purpose of
this focus would be to make recommendations to project management on
modifications to these activities so that they may be better adapted to the
needs and characteristics of the people.  In addition, outside of project
activities, the unit would review the appropriateness of the ongoing family
planning activities; recommendations arising out of this review would form the
basis for an expanded family planning program in the follow-on project. Also,
it would undertake studies on other social matters (e.g., tribal fighting) of
importance and make appropriate recommendations. Review of these activities
would take the form of regular field work and interviewing and other ad hoc
studies.
4.08      The NPO would have the responsibility for evaluating the overall
success of the project as well as achievements of each project component in
relation to its objectives. In conjunction with appropriate provincial
divisions and units,/l it would design and implement by December 1982 a data
gathering and evaluation system which would enable it to perform this task and
undertake by December 1983 a base-line survey on Enga's agriculture sector
including inter alia data on crop yields, cropped area, cultivation practices,
marketed and nonmarketed production. The uncertainty surrounding data on
farming in the project area creates a particular need for the base-line
survey. In recognition of the small size and nature of this project and to
prevent overburdening provincial staff, the data gathering and evaluation
system would be on a modest scale, focusing on key parameters for the main
activities, and as much as possible relying on the existing reporting system.
The PC, with assistance from the HQPCs, would prepare the project completion
report. Assurances were received at negotiations that the Government would
/1 Subsistence team, Organization and Staff Development division, and
Development Monitoring Unit.



- 39 -
submit to the Bank the project completion report of such scope and detail as
the Bank may request, no later than six months after completion of the
project.
4.09      Project Staffing.  Over four years 52 additional staff would be
recruited, including counterpart staff, comprising 29 professionals, 19 semi-
professionals and 4 clerical staff /1 (Annex 3, Table 2); of these, 36 staff
(including 17 professionals) would occupy permanent positions, i.e. ongoing
after the project. Additional professional and semiprofessionals represent an
increase of about 70% and 20%, respectively, over present levels of these
staff in the province; excluding counterparts, the increase is 50% and 17%,
respectively. Fourteen of the professional and 10 of the semiprofessional
staff are likely to be expatriates since there is a critical shortage in Enga,
and in PNG in general, of trained nationals with experience in implementing
some of the activities proposed under the project. Six of the expatriates are
expected to be volunteers supplied by NGOs and volunteer agencies. The
expatriate professional staff would be needed mainly for the newer activities
(adaptive research, coordination and evaluation, organizational development,
contractor assistance) and for the positions of accountant and extension
specialist, while the semiprofessional staff would be needed mostly for
implementing the increased civil works program and trade training. These
expatriates would be charged with the real work of implementation. To enable
nationals to take over the permanent positions after the expatriates left,
trained but most likely inexperienced national staff would be recruited in
temporary positions to serve as counterparts to the expatriate staff for a
period of 2-3 years. The expatriates would train, prepare and evaluate the
counterparts. While this supernumerary approach is not the most desirable, it
is unavoidable given the small scale of operations and discrete technical
nature of most jobs, both of which do not allow a hierarchy of positions
through which local staff could be promoted. There are however safeguards
built into this system which ensure that local staff perform well.
Importantly the vacated positions are not guaranteed to the counterpart staff
since the PSC would advertise the jobs nationwide. Also promotion into the
regular jobs would depend on performance in the counterpart position.
Excluding volunteers, about 750 man-months of expatriate assistance would be
financed at a total cost of $2.6 million ($3,400/man month); these costs
include salaries, leave fares and gratuity.
4.10      To avoid delays in staff recruitment resulting from procedural
problems, all staff positions have been authorized by PSC and recruitment of
all first year positions has been initiated. Also, the Project Coordinator,
two DWS staff (para. 3.22) and the provincial accountant (para. 3.31) have
been appointed. Assurances were obtained that qualifications and experience
of the following key specialists and their counterparts, would be satisfactory
to the Bank: subsistence system and cash crops development team (para. 3.09);
assistant secretary, staff development and training officer, and extension
/1 College graduates are classified as professionals, and high school
graduates with technical skills as semiprofessionals.



- 40 -
specialist, in the Organization and Staff Development division (para. 3.29);
provincial accountant (para. 3.31); project coordinator and socio-economic
evaluator (para. 3.32).
4.11      Operating Agreements.  The Department of Enga would enter into
operating agreements, with nongovernmental agencies responsible for certain
project activities (paras. 3.12, 3.13 and 3.26) to specify their respective
responsibilities under the project and help assure timely project completion.
These agreements would be signed prior to initiation of the project
activities (para. 4.12).
4.12      Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
period of four years, from January 1982 to December 1985, coinciding with
the period of the 1982-85 NPEP. Schedules for project implementation (Chart
No. 23068) and key activities (Annex 3, Table 3) are attached; the latter
schedule includes, inter alia, the following: (a) key staff and their
appointment dates (para. 4.10); (b) technical reports to be submitted to
the Bank and their completion dates (paras. 3.11 and 3.30); and (c) prior
actions needed before certain project activities can be undertaken (paras.
3.17, 3.34 and 4.11). Particular attention has been given to recruitment
and staffing delays, implementing capacity of provincial agencies, and
construction times in determining these schedules. These schedules were
agreed at negotiations and assurances were obtained that the project
shall be carried out in accordance with these two schedules, and that the
Bank shall be consulted when these are revised during the course of the
project, in light of implementation experience and changed circumstances.
4.13      Recurrent Costs.  After the project period, the annual incremental
operating and maintenance costs of project facilities and staff would amount
to about K 0.5 million ($0.7 million) or 12% of the provincial government's
existing recurrent costs. Given the province's limited revenue generation,
these funds would be provided by the National Government./l
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The project would benefit, directly or indirectly, the entire popu-
lation of the province. The benefits and justification of the proposed
project have to be viewed in the context of the long-term program, comprising
a series of interdependent projects undertaken to accelerate social change and
economic growth in an isolated tribal society which is one of the poorest in
Papua New Guinea. Unless the program is undertaken, Engans would continue to
live in an isolated and rudimentary subsistence setting, and a large number of
them would progressively face food shortages and engage increasingly in
interclan fights. While maintenance of subsistence production and increasing
/1 In line with current practise, these funds would be allocated through
the NPEP and be part of the second phase project.



- 41 -
cash crops incomes are an important aim of the long-term program, equally
significant is the qualitative changes which would result from efforts in
health, education, institution building, social development and commercial
assistance. The proposed project would initiate this program through
developing the human and physical resource base and improved agricultural
packages. Although the project components are diverse, there is an organic
integrity to the project given the intertwined nature of the economic,
institutional and social issues it addresses.
Nonquantifiable Benefits
5.02      The important nonquantifiable benefits of the project include the
following: (a) a more balanced diet resulting from increased production (and
therefore consumption) of nutritionally higher value food, e.g., vegetables,
poultry, sheep, goats; (b) improvement of the basic health care system should
improve delivery of existing health education and nutrition, family planning
and preventive programs. This would help raise the quality, vigor and
productive capacity of the future work force and improve the effectiveness of
education; (c) the education component would result in increasing the
enrollment rate and decreasing wastage in formal education, improving the
quality of education and making it more relevant to rural life,
retaining/attracting qualified teachers in Enga, and providing vocational
skills to women and adults who at present are not addressed by the education
system; (d) the small, but important, social development component would
accelerate the process of nation building and socio-economic awareness,
foster inter-clan cohesion and assist people in making a smooth transition
from an isolated setting to a more "modern" way of life; (e) the strengthen-
ing of Government's planning, implementation, evaluation and management
information system, improvements in staff training and development, and
establishment of an effective media unit would improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of government administration and public services in the
province, thus establishing a viable institutional base for undertaking
sustained economic and social development programs; and (f) the commercial
assistance component would accelerate the development of the monetary
sector, support establishment of a viable contracting industry in the
province, and help meet the shortage of trained tradesmen in the province.
Importantly, achievement of the above benefits would, collectively, reduce
the incidence of tribal fighting.
Quantifiable Benefits
5.03      Overview.  These benefits result from the agricultural development
efforts undertaken during this and successive projects, the goals of which
are to increase and diversify food production, expand fuelwood availability,
and increase cash crop incomes. The efforts under this project are
essentially geared towards strengthening of support services and constitute
the beginning of the long-term program. The full agricultural impact of the
project is difficult to assess for several reasons. First, its implement-
ation and impact would be dispersed throughout all areas of the province
where agriculture is practiced. Secondly, achievement of objectives depends



- 42 -
on many factors which are difficult to forecast, including the accuracy and
efficiency of adaptive research results and extension recommendations, and
the degree and speed of uptake of recommendation by farmers. Thirdly, there
is a lack of prior experience of similar projects being implemented in a
backward and isolated society. Moreover, being a time-slice operation, the
project's impact is inseparable from the impact of the expansion of the
extension network and improvements in roads to be undertaken in the
follow-on project and successive development plans. In view of the above
reasons, no overall estimates were made of the project-s effects. However,
an attempt has been made to estimate the likely increase in production which
would result from a 30-year program of complementary investments in
agriculture and roads. These estimates are based on conservative but
reasonable assumptions for key technical parameters which would govern
growth of the agriculture sector in Enga.
5.04      Assumptions.  Three clan farm models A (400 ha), B (650 ha) and C
(750 ha) have been used to illustrate agricultural impact. Clans A represent
about 45% of the population, predominate in densely populated lower altitude
areas, engage in coffee production, and generally face land shortage. Clans
B represent 22% of the population, live in higher altitude areas and produce
pyrethrum and vegetables; they have adequate land for expansion but access is
poor. Clans C represent about 33% of the population, live in generally
inaccessible lower altitude areas, but have substantial land for expansion;
at present they do not produce commercial crops. All clans are engaged in
production of sweet potatoes and other subsistence crops cultivated in home
gardens. These models represent the farming system of a clan in view of the
complex links and interdependence between an individual farm family and clan,
and also encompass the entire farming system including subsistence gardening,
cash crops, livestock and forestry.
5.05      In the without program situation, the following changes in agri-
cultural production are forecast: (a) total subsistence production /1 for all
clans is expected to grow, through increased cropped area, in line wi th
population growth (2% p.a.). However, for clans A, production is forecast to
stagnate after about 20 years as under the present levels of technology,
available crop and forestry area would be unable to sustain the increased
population;/2 and (b) cash crops and vegetable production are unlikely to
increase from present levels given the lack of extension and market access.
/1 This is based on per capita subsistence production which itself iis based
on an estimate of subsistence requirements. The future per capita subsis-
tence requirements per annum in the with and without situation are
assumed to be the same as the present levels, i.e. about 900 kg of sweet
potatoes, 2.2 cu m of fuelwood and 140 kg of home garden produce
/2 Under this assumption per capita subsistence production would remain
constant for clans B and C, but decline, after 20 years, for clans A.



- 43 -
5.06      Estimates of agricultural production in the with program situation
are based on changes in the three key parameters: yields, cropped area and
farmer participation. The assumed changes are as follows: (a) yield
increases of 15% and 40-45% are assumed for sweet potatoes, and vegetables
and cash crops, respectively, and are expected to result from better
varieties and practices, but without use of fertilizers or pesticides. These
yields are below the genetic potential of existing varieties and increases
attainable with more modern practices; (b) area under vegetables and
commercial crops (coffee, pyrethrum and cardamom) increases by 6 ha (from 9
ha to 15 ha) in case of clans A, 6 ha for clans B (from 6 ha to 12 ha), and
25 ha for clans C./l This incremental increase in cropped area is largely
dictated by future market prospects rather than availability of suitable
land; on the latter basis cropped area could be considerably larger,
particularly in case of clans B and C once roads have been improved., Cropped
area assumed under sweet potatoes, home garden, and fuelwood is based on per
capita subsistence requirement (para. 5.05) and; (c) considering the
difficulty of access and of inducing chainge in the particular tribal setting,
it is assumed that it will take 30 years to reach 95% of the clans, and 8
years (after contact by extension workers) for any one clan to reach full
development-higher yields and changed cropping pattern. Farm models and
other details are provided in Annex 4, Tables 1-7. Needless to say, the
production estimates resulting from the above assumptions are only
indicative. Nevertheless, they suggest the expected magnitude of
development.
5.07      Agricultural Production.  Resulting from the long-term program,
incremental production at full development (year 30) is expected to be
50,000 tons of sweet potatoes, 32,000 tons of home garden produce and
vegetables, 100,000 cu m of fuelwood, 3,500 tons of parchment coffee, 300 tons
of pyrethrum and 50 tons of cardamom (Annex 4, Table 8).
5.08      Mlarketing and Prices.  The incremental production of sweet potatoes,
fuelwood, and a large part of the vegetables would be consumed at the farm.
The future market prospects for the commercial crops is necessarily speculat-
ive considering that marketable output would occur mostly after 10 years.
This notwithstanding, the prospects appear good considering that output from
the province represents a small percentage of total market. Thus about
12,000 tons of vegetables are expected to be marketed annually by year 30
which would represent about 25% of the estimated national demand for
mnarketed vegetables by then. This is about half of the current market share
of vegetables produced in Enga. Farmers are expected to sell their
vegetables at the marketing depot (para. 3.13) where prices would be linked
to the national market, and which is expected to offer 25-30% higher prices
/1 Clans C are not engaged in commercial crops at present.



- 44 -
than individual buyers./l In year 30, total provincial production (including
incremental resulting from program) of parchment coffee (5,000 tons),
pyrethrum (500 tons) and cardamom (50 tons) would represent about 3%, 100%,
and 30%, respectively, of PNG's likely future exports (and production) of
these crops./2 Enga's present share of national production is about 2% for
coffee; it is the sole producer of pyrethrum and expected to become a major
producer of cardamom besides the Southern Highlands province. Considering
that no major changes are assumed in Enga's or PNG's market share of these
commodities, no problems are foreseen in marketing of the incremental
production. The above cash crops would be marketed through existing channels
(para. 2.22); prices received by farmers range from 75%-85% of f.o.b. prices
and are generally in line with economic farmgate prices.
5.09      Agricultural Incomes.  Based on the future changes in agricultural
production in the with and without situation, estimates were made of the
likely per capita subsistence and cash crop incomes,/3 in year 30, for the
three clan models under two different scenarios of population growth. These
estimates are indicated in Table 5.1. The table highlights the following:
(a) unless the program is undertaken there would be a 25% decline in subsis-
tence income for about 45% (clans A) of the population resulting from
reduction in food and fuelwood availability. For the remaining population,
while no decline in subsistence income (and production) is anticipated, the
malnutrition is expected to remain because of poor diet. As a result of the
program, these conditions would be averted by ensuring a stable supply of
staples, and increasing production of nutritionally higher value foods;/4
(b) although there is a significant increase in cash crops income, subsis-
tence incomes would continue to be the main component of total income; and
(c) while there are no dramatic increases in per capita incomes over present
levels, the fact that the program is able to register even these increases,
despite the almost doubling of population, is in itself creditable.
/1 Higher prices result from lower marketing and transport costs due to
economies of scale.
/2  Future exports from PNG are based on PNG's retaining its current share of
the world market (about 1% for coffee and pyrethrum) and capturing about
2% of the cardamom market. World market is assumed to expand by the
long-term historical growth rate.
/3 Because of the complex resource and output sharing within the clan system,
per capita incomes are not very meaningful indicators. Subsistence income
comprises value of self-consumed sweet potatoes (70%), fuelwood (17%) and
home garden produce (13%); figures in parenthesis indicate percentage of
total income.
/4 Increase in consumption of nutritionally better food accounts for the
slight increase in per capita subsistence between the with and present
situation.



- 45 -
Table 5.1: PRESENT AND FUTURE PER CAPITA
AGRICULTURAL INCOMES /a
(Kina/annum)
------- Population growth p.a.------
2%              1.5%
P      W/O   %/b  W        %/c    W    %/c
Clan Model A
Subsistence         90      72   -20    92    2        94    4
Cash crop           17       9   -47    18    6        21   24
Total           107      81   -24   110    3       115    7
Clan Model B
Subsistence         90      90     -    94    4        94    4
Cash crop           10       5   -50    13   30        15   50
Total           100      95    -5   107    7       109    9
Clan Model C
Subsistence         90      90     -    93    3        93    3
Cash crop            -       -     -    26    -        30    -
Total            90      90     -   119   32       123   37
Province-wide
Subsistence         90      82    -9    93    3        94    4
Cash crop           10       5   -50    20  100        23  130
Total           100      87   -13   113   13       117   17
/a  Situation at present (P) and in year 30 with (W) and without
(W/0) program.
/b  Percentage change of W/0 over P situation.
/c  Percentage increase of W over P situation.
5.10      Economic Analysis.  For illustrative purposes, a rate of return was
estimated for the investment package comprising the total agricultural and
roads investments over a 30-year period. Since the two are interdependent,
i.e., the benefits from one depend upon whether the other is implemented,
they have been evaluated together as a package. The key assumptions are as
follows: (a) Costs: These include total agricultural and road costs over a
30-year period. Agricultural costs include those under the project, a simi-
lar size investment in the next four years (follow-on project), and recurrent
f~



- 46 -
costs over the next 22 years; the recurrent costs are increased by 3% p.a. to
reflect expansion of the extension network. Road costs include capital costs
for project roads and anotlher 500 km of roads (assumed to be imnproved over
the next 20 years) and incremental maintenance costs during the 30 years;/l
(b) Benefits: These represent the incremental agricultural production
resulting from the long-term program. For simplicity and because traffic
volumes are likely to be low no traffic related benefits are included; (c)
Participation: Clan participation is phased over 30 years. Incremental
agricultural benefits for a clan would depend on the year it is contacted
because agricultural output increases with population growth in the "without
program situation; (d) Shadow Wage Rate: This is estimated to be about K
1/day (40% of minimum rural wage) based on estimate of value of clan output
and time spent on agricultural activities; and (e) Prices: Farm gate
prices /2 are based on world market prices for export crops after making
appropriate adjustments for taxes, subsidies and transportation, and current
rural market prices for other agricultural commodities. Based on the above,
the economic rate for the package is estimated to be about 17.4% (Annex 4,
Table 9).
5.11      Sensitivity analysis  indicates that the rates of return are fairly
insensitive to adverse changes in key parameters. Taking the minimum accept-
able rate of return as 10%, the switching values /3 are: 3.5 years for lag
in benefits, 63% for increase in costs, and 40% for decrease in incremental
benefits (Annex 4, Table 10).
Risks
5.12      There are three main areas of risk associated with this project.
The first involves recruitment of staff to live and work in Enga Province, the
second concerns the effective coordination and management of the project and
the third involves the cultural appropriateness of the various project
activities. The problem of recruitment of the 24 expatriates and 28 local
staff has two dimensions. The first is the purely procedural process of
establishing the positions and pay scales and commencing recruitment
activities in a timely fashion. Considering that the key staff have already
been appointed and other procedural problems resolved (para. 4.10), there is
/1 The assumed rate of improvements (25 km/year) after project period would
result in the entire provincial network being improved by year 24.
There are no incremental maintenance costs for the project roads
(para. 3.18).
/2 World market prices used are the projected 1990 prices for coffee, and the
current prices for pyrethrum and cardamom as no long-term price
projections are available for these crops.
/3 Percent change in parameter value which would reduce the ERR to 10%.



- 47 -
a reasonable expectation that the project is off to a good start and this
helps with subsequent recruitment and retention of staff, both local and
expatriate. The second dimension of recruitment risk has to do with the
general unattractiveness of Enga because of its isolation and lack of
amenities and its much publicized inter-clan violence. There has always
been a problem in the PNG Highlands with attracting qualified local staff
from the more developed coastal areas. Enga is especially difficult in this
respect. For expatriates these factors tend to be less important because
the time of service is relatively short, the pay is adequate, the job
challenging, and the culture quite interesting. Retention of expatriate
staff and rapid turnover may be more of a problem than initial recruitment.
Much depends on the ability of the government to keep inter-clan violence
under control and make steady progress with project implementation. For
local staff recruitment, it is likely that some Engans working outside the
province can be recruited, thus avoiding the problems of being an outsider.
A recently established pay incentive system for work in less developed
provinces, the possibility of getting responsible positions more quickly
than elsewhere in the country, and the social infrastructure to be built
under the project should together help with local recruitment. These above
provisions are the logical and feasible steps that can be taken to reduce
the staffing risk to an acceptable level.
5.13      The coordination and management risk arises from the comprehensive-
ness of the project and the as yet untested performance of the recently
created provincial administrative machinery. While the project is modest
in terms of the amount of funds committed and the physical volumes of work,
there are numerous components to monitor. In the Southern Highlands
project this risk was dealt with by setting up a semiautonomous implemen-
tation group in the province directed from Port Moresby which was justified
because provincial governments were in the process of being formed.  For
the Enga project this is neither feasible nor desirable given the presence of
a provincial administration and a provincial plan that has local inputs and
support. Thus overall responsibility for implementation is to be at the
provincial level with coordination taking place through the Provincial
Secretary's Staff Committee (SSC). The two key expatriate positions of
Project Coordinator and Project Accountant have been created to assist the
SSC in management and coordination. At the national level (para 4.03) the
Headquarters Project Coordinators will deal with problems that cannot be
handled in the province, mostly recruitment issues. These arrangements
should reduce coordination risks to a manageable level.
5.14      When new approaches to doing things are introduced into a tradi-
tional society that has only recently come in contact with the modern world
it is inescapable that the modern way of doing things will violate long-
standing roles and traditions. This is not necessarily bad and is one of the
prices for introducing change. For instance the general feeling of animosity
between clans will eventually have to become more cooperative, with less time
and resources expended in armed conflict and more time and resources devoted



- 48 -
to production. Few will oppose such a change. On the other hand the
proposal to introduce new farming or animal husbandry practices that add to
the current burden of women may be rejected for that reason. Steps however
have been taken to avoid obviously inappropriate measures by involving local
political leaders and technocrats in developing the provincial plan and by
using the services of a cultural anthropologist in appraising the project.
Further, since not all the populace, particularly the women, are representated
at the political and technocratic level, a development monitoring unit
has been established as part of the project (para 4.07) to monitor implemen-
tation, be sensitive to the cultural implications of change, and provide
feedback for the Secretary's Staff Committee. This measure is designed to
deal specifically with the risk of introducing culturally inappropriate
practices, and more positively to insure that changes can be introduced
during implementation that will enhance the impact of the development effort.
Environmental Impact
5.15      The proposed project is expected to have a positive environmental
impact. Reforestation and tree crop development would contribute to soil
conservation, and improved access to health facilities should have a notably
positive impact on standards of health and nutrition of the provincial
population.
Fiscal Impact
5.16      Given the nature of this project and the poverty of the provincial
population there is no cost recovery from the beneficiaries; the national
government would bear the full costs of the project. The modest scale of
the project makes it well within the means of Papua New Guinea. The project
represents a conscious effort by the national government to increase
development funds transfer to Enga, where government expenditures are among
the lowest in the country. During the present (first phase) project the
average yearly expenditure would be about K 2.1 million (1981 prices) or
less than 1% of the 1981 National Government expenditure budget. This
amount translates into an annual expenditure (capital and recurrent) of
about K 13/capita ($20) for the Enga province; even with this transfer,
total per capita expenditures in Enga (K 69) /1 would be lower than the
present average in the country (K 81).  Provided the returns to the economy
are satisfactory, projects of this size would be eminently replicable. On
the basis of K 13/capita, which is likely to be used as benchmark for other
LDP plans, the National Government expenditures during the peak years (1985-
90) when development plans for all LDP-s are being implemented, would amount
to about K 14.0 million per annum ($21.3 m). This appears sustainable given
that it would be less than 10% of the projected NPEP expenditures; further,
it is equitable considering that about 37% of the population live in these
provinces and that development of these provinces is an important objective
of the national development strategy. The incremental recurrent cost of the
project would be borne by the national government (para. 4.13). In the short
/1 Current level is K 56 per capita (para. 2.30).



- 49 -
run revenues from such projects would be negligible. However the long term
program should result in expansion of the monetary sector and tax base in the
province thus providing additional revenues to both the National and
Provincial Governments.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following:
(a) it would provide annually maintenance allowance for provincial
and council feeder roads (including project roads) amounting
to K 3,500/km and K 550/km, respectively (para. 3.18);
(b) the project accounts, including the statement of expenditures,
would be audited annually by independant auditors acceptable to
the Bank and their audit report submitted to the Bank no later
than nine months after the end of the fiscal year; (para. 3.39);
(c) the quarterly project supervision would be undertaken in the
manner indicated in para. 4.04;
(d) the following reports would be prepared and submitted to the Bank
by the dates specified;
(i) semi-annual progress report by September 15 and March 15
of each year (para. 4.06); and
(ii) project completion report within six months of completion
of the project (para. 4.08).
(e) the terms and conditions and qualifications of the key professional
staff and consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.10); and
(f) the project shall be carried out in accordance with the agreed
implementation and key activities schedules, and the Bank shall
be consulted when changes are made to these schedules (para. 4.12).
6.02      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a $2.0 million IDA credit on standard terms and a $6.0 million Bank loan
to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea with a term of 17 years
including a grace period of 4 years.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Altitudinal Zones /a
Below 800 m  800-1,400 m  1,400-2,000 m  2,000-2,600 m  Above 2,600 m            Total
District          ha      %     ha            ha        %     ha        %     ha        %      ha       %
Wapenamanda          -    -   10,500  10   22,600    20   36,400    33   41,500    37    111,000  100
Kompiam         49,000   19   80,900  31   69,400    27   49,300    19   12,400         5    261,000  100
Wabag            5,600    4    2,600   2   19,400    16   26,400    21   71,000    57    125,000  100                  I
Lagaip               -    -    1,000   1   21,600       9   71,300    30  140,100    60    234,000  100
Kandep                              -   -        -      -   79,000    37  132,000    63    211,000  100
Porgera              -    -   36,700  13  113,200    41   81,000    29   48,100    17    279,000  100
Province  54,600    5  131,700  11  246,200    20  343,400    28  445,100    36  1,221,000  100
/a  Estimates derived from maps attached to preparation report.
(D X4



ANNEX 1
- 51                                    Table 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population and Land Distribution
Land                 Usable
Agriculturally      land per
District              Population /b                      usable /a           capita
Total     x        Total ha        ha         X       (ha)
Wabag                  43,347    26          125,000    54,500       13        1.3
Lagaip                 34,844    21          234,000    76,600       20        2.2
Wapenamanda            31,575    19          111,000    38,500        10       1.2
Kandep                 27,069    17          211,000    63,300/c    15         2.3
Kompiam                18,792    12          261,000   113,500/d    28         7.1
Porgera                 8,849      5         279,000    62,000/e    16         7.0
Total Enga       16        100      1,221, 000   408,400       100       2.5
/a  Lea, D.A.M. and Gray, R.N., Enga Demography (1980).  Includes areas suitable
for tree crops, i.e. coffee, and for livestock. Area suitable for food
crops is considerably smaller, probably no more than 20-25%.
/b  1980 National Census - Preliminary Field Counts.
/c  Includes extensive areas of suitable for tree crops and for livestock.
/d  Includes extensive agricultural lands affected by malaria risks because of
altitude and other perceived constraints.
/e  Includes extensive inaccessible and/or low altitude areas similar to /d.



ANNEX 1
- 52-                                Table 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Agricultural Production
Estimated production by district (%) /a
Produc-                   Wapena-            Por-  Kom-
Unit    tion      Wabag  Lagaip   manda   Kandep  gera  piam
Commercial
Pyrethrum           ton         220      12     86        1        1       -     -
Coffee /b           ton       1,500       5      5       20        -      10    60
Vegetables          ton       2,000      30     30       30        5       -     5
Spices /c           ton          10      -      20       10        -       -     -
Forest products
Timber            cu m      2,200     20       -       10       10       -    60
Subsistence
Sweet potatoes /d  ton    350,000       26      21       19       17       5    12
Home garden /e      ton      24,000      26     21       19       17       5    12
Fuelwood /f         cu m   328,000       26     21       19       17       5    12
Pigs /g             head   214,000      26      21       19       17       5    12
Sheep               head        150     30       -       30       30       -    10
/a  Mission estimates based on suitable areas and population.
/b Including production of about 200 tons from large holdings. Production
indicates parchment coffee.
/c Mainly chillies.
Id Estimates based on consumption of about 2.5 kg/day each for humans and for
pigs.
/e Estimate based on: (i) per capita area of about 0.1 ha and assuming weighted
average yield (12 tons/ha) for a mix of vegetables; and (ii) home-consumed
vegetables.
/f Estimate based on 2.2 cu m per capita.
/g Estimated number based on 1.3 pigs per capita.



-53-                                  ANNEX 1
Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Health Statistics
A. Coverage
Population to staff ratio
Enga                       National
Doctor                                          33,000                        16,949
Health extension officer                        16,500                        15,228
Nurse                                            2,894                         1,784
Nurse aide                                       4,342                         1,939
Aid post orderly (APO)                           1,556                         1,627
B. Disease Patterns (Primary Facilities)
Condition                                                 % of outpatient attenders
Skin                                                                   28
Respiratory                                                            16
Trauma                                                                 10
Headache                                                                8
Pneumonia                                                               6
Diarrhea                                                                5
CNS, eye, ear                                                           3
Other                                                                  24
Total                                                            100



- 54 -1NFX 1
rable 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Education Statistics
% of age group
No. of   No. of               Enrollment                      in school
teachers  schools    Male         Female       Total      Male   Female   Total
Primary Schools
1975                  222        N/A       6,128        1,693       7,821    51.4    15.1    39.7
1979                  340          66      8,049       3,573       11,622    58.8    27.8    44.3
(National)/a       (8,872)   (2,014)  (165,067)  (113,022)  (278,089)  (68.4)  (48.7)  (58.8)
Secondary Schools /b
1979                   44          4         344           99         443      8.7     2.5    11.2
(National)         (1,437)       (94)    (7,814)      (3,977)   (11,791)  (11.2)   (5.7)  (16.9)
/a  Data for 1979.
/b  Enrollment data refers to Grade 7 only.  Percentage figures represent Grade 7
enrollment as % of total 13-year olds.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Revenues and Expenditures - 1981 Budget Estimates
Revenues                              Expenditures
Amount   %         Division /d         Amount    %
National Transfers                                 Commerce                115     1
Div 248 /a                    4,265    47        Education             2,446    27
Other government grants /b   3,155    34         Finance and
Sectoral programs               854      9         management          1,084    12
NPEP                            804      9       Health                1,213    13
Primary industry       682      7
Subtotal                   9,078    99        Other in provin-
cial government      199     2
Provincial revenues /c              87     1       Infrastructure        3,426    38
Total                      9,165   100              Total           9,165   100
/a  This fund is for covering provincial recurrent expenditures in the fields of
administration, health, agriculture, education, business development,
information and management services.
/b  Includes:  minimum unconditional grant, secretariat salaries, marine ser-
vices, air charters and National Fiscal Commission grants.
/c  Includes:  derivation grants, cigarettes and tobacco sales tax, timber
royalties, bookmakers revenue, motor vehicle registration and mining
royalties.
/d  Revenue allocation among divisions based on detailed analysis of expendi-
tures, by the mission.



- 56 -                                        ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Project Costs (By Component)
(K'000)
Project year                                Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Total    %
Provincial Institution Building
Project coordination                            41.0      42.9      42.2      38.0      164.1    2
Development monitoring unit                     41.4      30.8      25.8      30.8      128.8    2
Technical assistance                            50.0      70.0    110.0    120.0        350.0    4
Upgrading finance & management services         76.1      66.5      43.2      40.6      226.4    3
Organization & staff development               140.6    112.2    105.5        76.9      434.2    5
Upgrading information services                  51.5      30.8      27.7      31.8      141.8    2
Total                                       400.6    353.2    354.4    337.1   1,445.3   18
Agriculture
Food crop production & subsistence
systems                                    138.2    153.2    116.6        71.3      479.3    6
Cash crop support services                    54.9      81.0      66.4      47.1      249.4    3
Vegetable marketing depot                     94.0       -         -         -         94.0    1
Taluma high altitude center                  119.3      24.6      25.4      26.2      195.5    2
Highland orchid collection                     -        11.8      12.5      13.1       37.4    -
Mukuramanda farmer training center             -        52.6      38.2      37.0      127.8    2
Subtotal                                    406.4    323.2    259.1    194.7   1,183.4   14
Forestry
Forestry extension and nurseries               -        67.0      59.4      55.8      182.2    2
Forestry plantation                            -        52.2      85.9      78.8      216.9    3
Subtotal                                      -       119.2    145.3    134.6        399.1    5
Livestock
Livestock distribution center                  -         -        77.7      51.4      129.1    2
Poultry breeding center                        -         -        16.2      16.2       32.4    -
Subtotal                                      -         -        93.9      67.6    1]61.5    2
Total                                       406.4    442.4    498.3    396.9   1,744.0   21
Commercial Assistance & Trade Training
Commerce staff strengthening                    54.9      46.4      37.5      44.2      183.0    2
Trade training                                 123.5      89.7      61.3      34.6      309.1    4
Total                                       178.4    136.1       98.8      78.8      492.2    6



- 57 -                                    ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 2
Project year                                Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Total    %
Community Development
Community & family services section             13.5       -         -         -         13.5    -
Community development center                    50.8      16.6      13.3    146.6       227.3    3
Total                                        64.3      16.6      13.3    146.6       240.8    3
Education
Wanepop training center                         87.0      52.3      66.9      61.9      268.1    3
Women's vocational center                        -         -         -        37.6       37.6    -
Kandep high school boarding facilities           -       204.1      90.4      32.3      326.8    4
Upgrading teachers- allowances                   2.7       3.2       3.6       3.7       13.2    -
Vernacular education                             -        15.9      16.2      21.9       54.0    1
Total                                        89.7    275.5    177.1    157.4         699.7    8
Health
Upgrading health centers & subcenters          174.0    109.0       95.0    168.0       546.0    7
New health subcenters                            -         -        45.0      57.0      102.0    1
Improving the aid post system                  121.0      95.0      95.0    137.5       448.5    6
APO & nurse aide training                       48.5      81.0      34.0      34.0      197.5    2
Monituring health statistics                    23.0      23.0      21.5      13.5       81.0    1
Total                                       366.5    308.0    290.5    410.0   1,375.0   17
Infrastructure
Road upgrading                                 305.6    305.6    305.6    305.6   1,222.4   15
Micro-hydroelectricity schemes                   -        77.5      97.3      76.0      250.8    3
Vacant town land development                    62.0      79.6      68.9      64.5      275.0    3
Provincial buildings                           153.7    100.3       72.0      70.5      396.5    5
Traffic monitoring                               8.0       6.0       6.0       6.0       26.0    -
Strengthening provincial DWS                   106.5/a    -          -         -        106.5    1
Total                                       635.8    569.0    549.8    522.6   2,277.2   27
Grand Total - Base Cost                   2,141.7  2,100.8  1,982.2  2,049.4   8,274.1  100
Physical contingency                             140.3    109.7       96.6    107.4       454.0
Subtotal                                  2,282.0  2,210.5  2,078.8  2,156.8   8,728.1
Price contingency - amount                       198.5    384.6    544.6    769.9   1,897.6
(%)                         (8.7)   (17.4)   (26.2)   (35.7)    (21.8)
Total Project Cost                        2,480.5  2,595.1  22623.4  2,926.7  102625.7
/a Costs incurred in fourth quarter of 1981.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
- 58 -
PAPUA NEU GUINEA
BNGA PROVINCIAL DEvELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Project Costs (By Category)
(Risa '000)
Civil works      + Physi-   Gross   Vehicle  Eq. 6   Over-   V.os.-               Total    Vehicle   Other
Efgis-   Archi-   cal co--   ctvil        pus-   other    ee.s      teer   Nat'    new         opera-   recur-    Total
eering  tectural  tingescy   works    chase  capital  staff   staff   staff   staff            tio      rest
PROVINCIAL INSTBTUTlON BUILDING.
Upgrading fisance 6 sasagewssrssretoes          -        40.0       2.8      42.8      -       17.0     R6.0    -        78.4    164.4       -         5.0      229.2
Organization & staff developtent                -        72.0       5.3      77.3      6.0    11.0    216.3    -         38.2    254.5      32.5      58.2      439.5
Upgrading isfort-attos services                 -        50.5       3.8       54.3     -        -         -     36.1    10.2      54.3      24.0      13.0      145.6
Project coordinatios                            -         -         -         -        -        -       04.8    -        17.9    112.7      21.4      30.0      164.1
O-uelopeo-t  -ositorisg soit                    -        18.0       1.3      19.3      3.n      _       83.3    -         -       83.3      17.5       7.0      130.1
Studies a-d Trainieg Fuod                                 -         -         -        -                 -       -        -        -         -       350.0      350.0
Total                                               180.5      13.2      193.7      0.0    2B.0    480.4   36.1   152.7    669.2         95.4    463.2   1,458.5
(For-igoexchange costs) /a                   -      (90.3)    (7.1)    (07.4)   (7.7)  (22.4)  (312.3)   -            -      (312.3)   (47.7)  (238.3)   (725.8)
ACRICIILT 'RE
Crops
Food crop trodoutito & sebsistence
oyste-s                                     -        81.0      5.7       86.7    12.0       3.0    203.1    -       54.6    257.7       59.0      66.6     485.0
Cash crop support services                    -        57.5      4.2       61.7      6.0      4.5     70.1    -        18.8     88.9      26.5      66.0     253.6
Vegetable earketitg depot                     -        50.0      5.0       55.0      -      44.0       -       -        -        -         -         -         99.0
Talosa high altitude ce-ter                   -        94.0      8.6      102.6      3.0    10.0       -      41.0      -       41.0      17.5.    30.0      204.1
Highlands orchid c-llectios                   -         -        -          -        -        -        -       -       15.6     15.6       3.6      18.2       37.4
okarak,o-da farmer trainini ceter            -        40.0      4.0       44.0      3.0    10.0       -       -      22.0      22.0      10.0      42.8      131.0
Subtotal                                     -      322.5      27.5      150.0    24.0    71.5    273.2   41.0   111.0    425.2    116.6    223.6   1,210.9
Forestry
Forestrv estessinn                            -        53.0      4.7       57.7      6.0    21.0       -       -       14.8     14.8      20.0      67.4      186.9
Forestry plantattois                          -        52.0      4.6       56.6      9.0      -        -       -       24.2     24.2      27.5    104.2       221.5
luhbtotal                                    -      105.0       9.3      114.3    15.0    21.0        -       -      39.0      39.0      47.5    171.6      400.4
Livestock
Liveotock distrihatios rester                 -        63.5       5.7      69.2      6.0    10.3       -      1n.6    11.1      21.5      16.0      11.8      134.0
Poultry breeding rester                       -         -        -          -        -        -        -       -        -        -        10.0      22.4       32.4
Sobtotal                                     -       63.5       5.7       69.2      6.0    10.3       -      10.4    11.1      21.5      26.0      34.2      167.2
Total                                        -      431.0      42.-5     533.5    45.0   102.8    273.2   51.4   161.1    485.7    190.1    429.4   1,786.5
(-oreigo exchosge costs) Ia                  -     (245.5)   (23.0)   (268.5)  (35.3)  (82.2)  (177.6)   -            -      (177.6)   (95.1)  (107.4)   (769.1)
COMMF.RCIAL ASSISTANCE & TRADE TRAINING
Co.-eruc staff sgr,Adieg                        -        38.0       2.6      40.6      3.0      -       84.0    -        16.8    100.8      17.5      23.7      185.6
Tra-e traittig                                  -        92.0       6.4      98.4      -        -        91.0    -       14.5    105.5      44.0      67.6      315.5
Tota1                                        -      130.0       9.0      139.0      3.0      -      175.0    -        31.3    206.3      61.5      91.3      501.1
(Poretgnoexchange roses) Ia                  -      {65.n)    (Z7TW)    (68.9)   (2-5)    -        (113.65   -        -      (113.05   (30-7)   (22 0)   (230.7)
COM19NIT'7 DEVELOPMENT
Strengthe- co-resity 6 fasily services          -        13.5       1,0       14.5     -        -         -      -        -         -        -         -         14.5
Co-susity develop-sot rooter                    -       183.5      17.0     200.5      4.0      -         -      -       18.8      18.8     15.0       6.0      244.3
Total                                                107.0     13.0      215.0      4.0     -         -       -      18.8      18.8      15.0       6.0     258.8
(Foreign exhange costs) Ia                   -      (98.5)    (9.0)   (107.5)   (3.4)    -            -       -       -         -        (7.5)    (1.5)   (119.9)
EDUCATION
Wateop, training ce-ter                         -        37.0       2.6       39.6     6.0      -        20.8   14.0    38.7       73.5     16.0    135.6       270.7
Wous'es voctiosal center                        -        35.0       3.0      38.0      -        -        -       -        2.6       2.6      -         -         40.6
Kandep high school boarding facilities          -       260.0      26.0     286.0    20.0    15.6        -       -        -         -       25.2       6.0      352.8
Upgrodisg teachers' allowosces                  -         -         -         -        -        -        -       -       13.2     13.2       -         -         13.2
Vernacular educatios                            -        16.0       1.2       17.2     3.0      -        -       -       15.5      18.5     10.0       9.5       55.2
Tutal                                        -       348.0     32.R      300.8    28.0    15.6       20.8   14.0    70.0    104.8        51.2    151.1      732.5
(Foreitg  e-change costs)  /a                -     (174.0)   (16.4)   (180.4)  (24.6)  (12.4)   (13.5)   -                    (13.5)   (25.6)   (37.8)   (304.3)
HEALT6
Upgrading health rester and subcenters          -       392.0      39.2     431.2    12.0    86.0        -       -        -        -        56.0       -        585.2
New health ssucenters                           -        88.0       8.8      96.8      -       14.0      -       -        -        -         -         -        110.8
Isprovisg the aid pest systes                   -       392.5      38.3     420.8      -       26.0      -       _        _        -         -        40.0      406.8
APO 4 nurse aide trainisg                       -        62.0       6.2       68,2     3.0    12.0        -      -        -        -        20.0    100.5       203.7
Monitoring health statistics                    -         -         -          -       -        -         -      -        -         -       20.0      61.0      80.0
Total                                                924.5     92.5   1,017.0    15.0   138.0         -       -        -        -        96.0    201.5   1,467.5
(Foreign e-change costs) /a                  -     (462.2)   (46.2)   (508.4)  (12.T) (110.4)         -       -       -         -       (-48.0)   (00.)   (728.8)
INPPASTRUCTURE
Road spgradisg                              1,2)2.4       -       163.6   1,386.0      -        -        -       -        -        -         -         -      1,386.0
Micro hydroelectricity sche.es                114.5       -        37.6      172.1     -      116.3       -      -        -         -        -         -        288.4
Vacant toos land develup,se-t                   -       163.3       0.9     164.2      6.1      -         -      -       28.5      28.5     28.0      49.2      275.9
P-ovincial bhildinsi                            -       396.5      38.4     434.9      -        -         -      -        -         -        -         -        434.9
Tr-ffic sovito-ieg                              -         -         -         -        -        -         -      -        -         -        -        26.0       26.0
Strongthe-ing provi-cial OWS                    -        76.5       5.5      82.0    30.0       -         -      -        -         -        -         -        112.0
Total                                    1,356.9    636.3    246.0   2,239.2    36.0   116.3          -       -       28.5     28.5      28.0      75.2   2,523.2
(PoreFig  e         -chasge costs) Ia     (814.1)  (318.1)  (146.2) (1,278.4)  (30.6)  (93.0)         -       -       -         -       (14.0)   (18.8) (1,434.8)
GRAND TOTAL                              1,356.5  2,907.3    454.0   4,718.2   141.0   400.7    046.4  101.5   462.4  1,513.3    537.2  1,417.7   8,728.1
Category/total i                                (16)      (33)       (5)       (54)     (2)      (4)      (11)    (1)      (6)      (17)       (6)     (17)      (100)
Total coreigs excha-gecosto  Ia                 614.1  1,453.6    252.8   2,520.5   119.6   320.4    617.2    -             -       617.2    268.6    477.0   4,323.6
/0  Foreipg  E-chasge - % of tota1 cost          60        50        54         53      85       80       65       -        -         -       50        25
Fore-ig e-uh-ege -sep--est of stodlee asnd tr-isig fund eqools 601.



PAPIJA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Roads - Detailed Cost Estimates
('000 Kina)
Highwav -         Yampu -        Highway -       Meriamanda-
Road section:   Yalis-Pawari    Tsak Vallev         Meriamanda         Anditale          Yalis            Kompian
Length (km):          16             12.5               17             14.3             11.2               21
Work description            Oty.    Amt.   Oty.       Amt.   Oty.       Amnt.  Oty.      Amt.  Qty.      Amt.   Qty.       Amt.
Earthworks ('000 cii mi)
Road cutting              7.2      12.2    6.3      11.9    7.2       12.2   4.6        7.8   5.2       8.9   18.6       31.6
Fill                      -         -      0.4       0.5    0.5        0.7   0.2        0.3   -         -       -         -
Rock blasting             6.0      36.0    -         -       -         -      -         -      1.5      9.0    -          -
Trim Subgrade
('0(0 sq m)              96.0      19.2  111.1      22.2  102.0       20.4  85.8       17.2  60.0      12.0  126.0       25.2       1
Pavement ('000 cu m)                                                                                                                  n
Resheeting                8.6/a   90.7    6.7/b   99.0    -            -      5.2/b   46.6   5.4/a   73.4    7.6/b   64.3
Base course               -         -      -         -      15.3/c  130.0   -           -     -         -       -         -
Slip Clearing               -        15.0    -         15.0    -         -      -        10.(   -         10.0    -        20.0
Culverts (no.) /d          45        40.0   49        43.6   29         25.8   3          2.7  19         17.5   17        15.7
Bridges /e                  5        40.0    3         10.0    1        60.0   -          -      -         -      -        10.0
Minor Structures            -         -       -         -      -         -      -         5.3   -     -        -            -
Snbtotal                      253.1             202.2             249.1            89.9            130.5             166.8
Contingencies (15%)                  38.0              30.3             37.3             13.5             19.5             24.9
Engineering (12%)                    30.4              24.3             29.8             10.9             15.5              19.9
Total Costs                   321.5             256.9             316.2            114.3           165.5             211.6
/a  150 mm gravel resheeting.
/h  1OO mm gravel resheeting.
/c  250 mm base course.
/d  Costs based on average cost of K 890/culvert.                                                                                     >
/e  Costs include bridge replacement and replanking.                                                                                w x
I- t.i



-60 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursements Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD fiscal year and quarter                Ouarterly                     Cumulative
FY82
Third                                 O.4/a                          0.4
Fourth                                0.3                            0.7
FY83
First                                 0.4                            1.1
Second                                0.3                            1.4
Third                                 0.4                            1.8
Fourth                                0.5                            2.3
FY84
First                                 0.3                            2.6
Second                                0.5                            3.1
Third                                 0.6                            3.7
Fourth                                0.4                            4.1
FY85
First                                 0.4                            4.5
Second                                0.4                            4.9
Third                                 0.5                            5.4
Fourth                                0.5                            5.9
FY86
First                                 0.6                            6.5
Second                                0.6                            7.1
Third                                 0.5                            7.6
Fourth                                0.4                            8.0
/a Including retroactive financing of expenditures incurred in second quarter.



- 61 -                                ANNEX 3
Table 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Responsibility
Agency                              Responsibility
National Department
Department of Works and           (i) road improvements; (ii) buildings, houses
Supply (provincial             and other civil works for all components;
branch)                         (iii) vehicle procurement and maintenance, and
leasing to divisions; and (iv) trade training
program.
Department of Enga
Division of Primary              All agricultural activities, except for
Industry                       Mukuramanda center for which it provides tech-
nical support.
Division of Health                All health component, except inservice and
APO/nurse-aide training for which it provides
support to GLC.
Division of Education             Boarding facility, vernacular education and
teachers allowance and providing technical/
financial support and supervising implementa-
tion of all NGO-operated vocational/farmer
training centers.
Section of Community and          Community development component.
Family Affairs
Division of Commerce              Commerce component, excluding trade training.
Division of Organization and    Organizational development and training pro-
Staff Development              grams.
Nongovernmental Organizations
Goodnews Lutheran Church          (i) Mukuramanda farmer training center; and
(ii) inservice and APO/nurse aide training.
Catholic Church                   Yampu and Wanepop Vocational Centers.



62 -                                                                            ANNEX 3
Table 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENCA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Additional Staff Requirements
Create/  Duration of                                        Expected
upgrade   contract/               Overseas/                 appoint-                                   Ongoine
Organifa-                                                 existing  position                national/   Inttiate         ment                                      after
tion unit                   Designation                   position  (years) /a  Level/b volunteer  recruitment (month)                     Remarks                project
F.A.S.        Project coordinator                              c           4        CC tO        0         Underway    02/82  -
F.A.S.        5roject clerk                                    C           4        CC  5        N           09/81      06/82  -
F.11.S.       kccountant                                       E       Permanent   CC            0         Underway    02/82  -                                       N
F.'l.S.       Assistant accountant                             E          2/3       CC  6        N           06/82      01/83  Counterpart
F.P.S.        Ledger machinist                                 C       Permanent   KBO 2         N           11/81       06/82  -                                     N
F.M.s.        Reimbursem,ent clerk                             E       Permanent    CC 4         Ni           11/81      03/82  -                                     N
F.N.s.        Stenotypist                                      C       Permanent   K(5O 4        N           11/81       03/82  -                                     N
F.M.S.        Stenotypist                                      C       Permanent   Y80 4         N           11/81       03/82  -                                     N
.1.s..        Assistant Secretary                              C       Permanent   CC 10         0         Underway    06/82  -                                       N
O.i.R.        Executive assistant                              C          2/3       CC  8        N           06/82       01/83  Counterpart
O.s.5.        Staff develoment and training officer           E       Permanent  CC 8-9         0           11/81       06/82  -                                     N
O.S.D.        Assistant staff develoonent and
training officer                              F          2/3        Cl: 7       N           03/82       01/83  Counterpart
O.s.n.        Extension advisor                                C           3         CC a        0           11/81       09/82  -
P. & P.       Socio-economic evaluator                         C           4         CC q        D         Underway    03/82  -                                       N
Socio-economic evaliator                        C       Permanent    CC 7         N         Underway    06/82  Counterpart
Commerce      is'lioig trade technieal officer                C           4         CC 9        0           11/81       06/82  -
Comrerce      Puniness development officer                     C       Permanent    CC 2         N           01/82      09/82  -                                      N
Commerce      Business deveiopment officer                     C       Permanent         2       N           01/83       09/83  -                                     N
information  Media coordinator/traiser                         C           3   .    CC 7         V           01/82       01/83  -
Information  Graphic artist                                    C       Permanent    CC 4         N           '11/82     01/83  -                                      N
Infor-ation  Translator                                        C      Permanent    CC 5          N           03/82      01/83  -                                      N
0.W.5.        Architectural supervisor                         C           4             -       0         Underway    12/81  National Government staff               0
DJ.W,S,       Architectural supervisor                         C           4             -       0         Underway    12/81  National Government staff               0
D.W.S.        Architectural draftsman                          C           4             -       0         Underway    12/81  National Government staff               0
D.W.S.        Electrician                                      C           4             -       0         Underway    12/81  National Government staff               0
0.N.S.        Roads supervisor                                 C           4             -      0          Underway    12/81  National Government staff               0
D.W.c.        Trade trainer                                    C       Permanent         -       0           11/81      06/82  Experienced carpenter                  N
O.W.S.        Trade trainer                                    C       Permanent         -       0           11/81      06/82  Experienced plumber                    N
D.P.I.        Land use officer                                 C           4        RDO 5        0         Underway    09/82  Team leader
D.P.I.        Field horticuiltralist                           C       Permanent   RDO 3         0           11/81      06/82  -                                      N
0.P.1.        Assistant field horticulturalist                 C          2/3       RM   0       N           09/82       06/83  CounterPart
i5.P.l.       Research horticoIturalist (RDO 3)                C       Permanent   RDO 3         0           11/81      06/82  -                                      N
D.'.I.        Assistant research horticulturalist              C          2/3       RDO 3        N           09/82      06/83  Counterpart
D.P.I.        Cash crop specialist                             C       Permanent   RnO 3         0           11/81      06/82  -                                      N
D.P.1.        Assistant cash crop specialist                   C          2/3       RDO 4        N           09/82      06/83  Counterpart
0.0.1.        Livestock manager                                C       Permanent   ROO 3         V           f1/83      01/84  Ream livestock center                  N
D.5.I.        As.nstant livestock manager                      C           2        RDO 2        N           n3/83       01/83  Counterpart
D.P.I.        Forestry officer                                 C       Permanent    FO I         N           09/82       06/83  Extension component                   N
0.0.1.        Forestry officer                                 C       Permanent    FO I         N           08/82       06/83  Plantation component                  N
DPI.1.        Forestry officer                                 C      Permanent    FO I         N            09/82      06/83  Plantation component                  N
D5.I1.        Director, Taluma center                          C       Permanent   RDO 2         V           01/82      01/83  To be replaced by existing             -
D.P.I.        'omens extension officer                         C       Permanent   RDO 2        V            01/82      01/83  Taluma center             staff       V
Education    Crop instructor                                   C       Permanent    EO 3        N            03/82      01/83  Mukuraaoada center                    N
Education    Livestock instructor                              C       ?ermanent    EO 3         N           03/82      01/83  Mukuramanda center                    N
d.ucation     Carpentry instructor                             C       Permanent   E1  2        V          Underway    01/82  Wanepop center                         N
Education    Assistant carpentry instructor                                                      '1          03/84      01/85  Counterpart
Education    Joinery instructor                                C       0ermanent    EO 2         N         Underway    01/82  Wanepop center                          N
Edcation    Coordinator vernacular instrucror                  C       Permanent    E0 3         N           01/83      09/83  -                                      N
C.F.S.        C.D.C. officer                                   C       Peroaneet    CC 7        N            01/82      09/82  -                                      N
C.F.S.        C.D.C. nfficer                                   C      Permanent    CC 7          N           03/84      01/85  -                                      N
C.F.S.        C.D.C. officer                                   C       Permanent    CC 7         N           03/84      01/85  -                                      N
Health        ienior health auxiliary                          C       Permanent  CC 6/7         U           11/81      06/82  -                                      N
R---------------------------------------------------------------------  SUMARY ------------------------------------------------------------------
IRecruitment                   Ongoing
1938   19S2  1983  1984  1985  Total  after proje.t
Professional                                                                                                  /a  Contract of exoatriates occupying public service
National                         -      5      8      2     -      15          Is                               positions is initially 3 years, but extendable in
Overseas - regular /c            2      a      -      -     -      11           I                               blocks of 18 months.  Duration of counterpart
volunteer /d         -      3     -      -      -       3          1                                position would depend on performance of candidate
and readiness to take up regular jobs.
Subtotal                      2    17      S      2      -      2Q         17
/'  Levels correspond to PlC classifications.
Subprofess losal/Technirian
STational                         1     5      2      1     -       9          10                           /c  Overseas staff who are recruited through regular
Overseas - regular                5     2      -      -      -       7          5                                channels and paid international salaries.
vol-nteor            1      1             -     -       3           -
/d  Church staff and other overseas staff recruited
Suhtotal                      7      8      3      1     -      19         15                                through volunteer agencies and paid nominal
salaries.
Clerical
National                          -     4      -      -      -      4           4
Total                         _     2Q    11       3     -      52         36



ANNEX 3
- 63 -                              Table 3
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Key Activities
Activity                           Responsibility                      Date
A. Key Staff Appointments
1. Project Coordinator            PSC/Provincial Government               02/82
2. Provincial Accountant                                                  02/82
3. DWS Staff                      PSC/DWS                              11/81-06/82
4. Subsistence Unit Team          PSC/Provincial Government            03/82-09/82
5. Socio-Economic Evaluator                                               03/82
6. Assistant Secretary,                                                   03/82
Organization and Staff
Development
7. Extension Specialist                                                   09/82
B. Reports
1. Subsistence System and
Cash Crop Development        Provincial DPI/Subsistence Team
(a) Preliminary Report                                              12/82
(b) Final Report                                                    06/85
2. Organization and Staff         Organization and Staff Development
Development (OSD)              Division
(a) Preliminary Report
(1) Organizational/
Staff Development
Aspects                                                     12/82
(2) Extension Strengthen-
ing Aspects                                                 12/82
(b) Final Report
(1) Organizational/
Staff Development
Aspects                                                     12/84
(2) Extension Strengthen-
ing Aspects                                                06/85
C. Contingent Project Activities
1. Marketing Depot                Provincial DPI                          09/82



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
Pa ge 2
Activity                             Responsibility                        Date
- Construction Contingent on Signing of Suitable Agreement
2. Expansion of NGO centers
at:
(a) Mukuramanda                  Provincial Education Division             01/83
(b) Wanepop                                                                06/82
(c) Yampu                                                                  01/85
Expansion Contingent on Signing of Suitable Agreements
3. Roads Upgrading
(a) Highway - Meriamanda         Provincial DWS                            01/84
(b) Yalis - Pawari                                                         01/84
Upgrading Contingent on Approval of Financing of Related Commercial Projects
4. Studies and Training Fund        Department of Enga/NPO
Consultation with Bank, by submitting summary outline of scope and cost of
activity to be financed, prior to initiation of activity.
D. Other Actions
1. Traffic Counting System          Provincial DWS                            12/82
2. Submission of coffee/            Provincial DPI/Enga Investment            06/83
cardamom estate and              Corporation
sawmill projects to
PNGDB
3. Rehabilitation of pyrethrum   National Finance Department                  03/82
processing plant
4. M&E System:
(a) System implementation        NPO/Department of Enga                    12/82
(b) Base-line survey             NPO/Department of Enga                    12/83



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Clan Model A
I. Technical Coefficients
P /a              W/0 /a             W /a
Land Use                  ha                  ha          X      ha        %          Agricultural use (ha)        P       W/O       W
Crops                      44         11       61         15      67       17         Crops                        44       61       67
Fallow /b                  70         18      104         26      83       21         Home garden /d                 4       6        6
Native forest             281         70      226         57     241       60         Fuel and other
Other /c                     5         1        9          2       9        2           Native forest /e          233      226      241
Reforestation If            -        -       60
Total Clan Area      400        100      400       100      400      100
Cropping pattern (ha)/h            Yields (unit/ha)/h       Labor (man-days/ha)
Commodities                      P       W/O         W    Unit      P      W/O      W        P      W/O      W
Sweet potatoes]A                35                  55    ton    21.0   21.0   24.0         1,500  1,500  1,500
Vegetable /i                     -          -        3    ton      -       -      13.0          -       -    350
Cardamom  Ii-                               -         1    ton     -       -       0.25         -      -    250
Coffee /k
Existing/rehabilitation        9          9        9    ton      0.7    0.7    1.0          200    200    270                         1
New planting                   -          -        2    ton      -       -       0.8          -      -    250                        O
Home garden                      4          6        6    ton    12.0   12.0   17.0           500    500    500
Forest /1
Native forest                                            Ctl m    3.0    3.0    3.0           4      4       4
Reforestation                                            cu m    -       -       6.5          -      -      10
II.  Revenues (Kinas/clan)
Price/         Gross revenue               Labor costs /n        Other recurrent costs           Net income
Commodities         unit/m       P      W/o        W          P     W/O       W         P       W/O       W       P      W/O        w
Sweet potatoes /o       0    5s8,800   87,360  105,600   52,500  78,o0o  82,500         700   1,040   1,100   5,600   8,320  22,000
Vegetables             57          -         -    2,223         -        -   1,050        -        -      150        -       -   1,023
Cardamon            3,500          -         -      875         -        -     250        -        -      120        -       -      505
Coffee
Existing/rehab.    969       6,105    6,105    8,721    1,800   1,800   2,430         273      273      540   4,032   4,032   5,751
New planting        969          -         -    1,550         -        -     500        -        -      120        -       -      930
Home garden ]          57      2,736    4,104    5,814    2,000   3,000   3,000          40       60       60      696   1,044   2,754
Forest
Native forest         8      5,592    5,424    5,784        932      904     964   2,330   2,260   2,410   2,330   2,260   2,410
Reforestation         8          -         -    3,120         -        -     600        -        -   1,200        -             1,320
Livestock /g           40         35        35      211         2        2      22        -        -        -       33      33      189
Total                   7 3,2R   103,028  133,898   57,234  83,706  91,316   3,343  3_63_    5 700  12,691  15 689  36,8823 >
For footnotes refer to Annex 4, Table 4.                                                                                                D x



PAPUA NEW GIUINEA
ENCA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Clan Model B
1. Technical Coefficients
P /a              W/o /a              W /a
Land Use                   ha          %       ha                 ha        %          Agricultural use (ha)         P       W/0       W
Crops                       35          5       63         10      55        8         Crops                         35       63       55
Fallow /b                   70         11      126         19      83       13         Home garden Id                 4      7.5        6
Native forest              540         83     452          70     503       77         Fuel and other
Other /c                     5          1        9          1       9        1           Native forest /e           233      424      400
Reforestation /f            -        -       10
Total Clan Area       650        100     650        100      650      100
Cropping pattern (ha)/h             Yields (unit/ha)/h       Labor (man-days/ha)
Commodities                      P        W/I         W     Unit     P      W/o      W         P     W/o      W
Sweet potatoes Ig               35         63        55    ton    21.0   21.0   24.0         1,500  1,500  1,500
Vegetable /i                      2         2         5    ton    12.0   12.0   17.0           300    300    300
Pyrethrum /i                     4          4         7    ton      0.5    0.5    0.7          430    430    430
Home garden                      4        7.5         6    ton    12.0   12.0   17.0           500    500    500                       1
Forest /1                                                                                                                              0
Native forest                                            cu m    3.0    3.0    3.0             4       4      4
Reforestation                                            cllm    -        -       6.5          -       -     10
TI. Revenues (Kinas/clan)
Price/         Gross revenue                Labor costs /n        Other recurrent costs           Net income
Commodities         unit/mn      P       W/o        W          P      W/o       W        P       W/o       W        P     W/0         W
Sweet potatoes /o       80    58,800  105,840  105,600   52,500   94,500  82,500    700   1,260   1,100   5,600  10,080  22,000
Vegetables              57     1,368    1,368    4,845         600       600   1,750      40       40      250      728      728   2,845
Pyrethrum           1,080      2,160    2,160    5, 292    1,720    1,720   3,010         80       80      350      360      360   1,932
Hlome garden /p         57     2,736    5,130    5,814    2,000    3,750   3,000          40       75       60      696   1,305   2,754
Forest
Native forest          8     5,592   10,176    9,600         932    1,696   1,600  2,330   4,240   4,000   2,330   4,240   4,000
Reforestation         8          -         -       520         -         -     100       -        -      200        -        -     220
Livestock /            40         35        35       211         2         2       22      -        -        -       33       33      189
Total                    70,691  124,709  131,882   57,754  102,268  91,982  3,190   5,695   5,960   9,747  16,746  33,940
For footnotes refer to Annex 4, Table 4.
cZ
(D><



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Clan Model C
I. Technical Coefficients
P /a              W/() /a             W /a
Land    lJse               ha          %      ha                  ha        %          Agricultural     use   (ha)   P       W/o       W
Crops                       35          5       63          8      76       10         Crops                         35       63       55
Fallow /b                   87         12      158         21     110       15         Home garden /d                 4      7.5        6
Native forest              623         83      520        69      555       74         Fuel and other
Other /c                     5          1        9          1       9        1           Native forest /e           233      424      424
Reforestation If            -        -        -
Total Clan Area      750        100      750        100      750      100
Cropping pattern (ha)/h             Yields (unit/ha)/h       Labor (man-days/ha)
Commodities                      P        W/O         W    Ulnit     P      W/O      w         P     W/o      w
Sweet potatoes /g               35         63        55    ton    21.0   21.0   24.0         1,500  1,500  1,500
Vegetable /i                     -          -         4    ton      -       -      13.0          -       -    350                       1
New coffee7 k                    -          -        21    ton      -       -       0.8          -       -    270
Home garden                      4        7.5         6    ton    12.0   12.0   17.0           500    500    500                        4
Native forest /i                                            cu m    3.0    3.0    3.0            4       4       4
II.  Revenues (Kinas/clan)
Price/         Gross revenue               Labor costs /n         Other recurrent costs           Net income
Commodities         unit/m       P       W/O        W          P     W/O       W         P       Wo        W        P     W/O         W
Sweet potatoes /o    80       58,800  105,840  105,600   52,500  94,500  82,500          700   1,260   1,100   5,600  10,080  22,000
Vegetables             57           -        -    2,964          -        -   1,400         -        -     200        -        -   1,364
New coffee            969           -         -   16,275         -        -   5,250         -       -   1,260         -        -   9,765
Home garden            57      2,736    5,130    5,814    2,000   3,750   3,000            40      75       60      696   1,305   2,754
Native forest           8      5,592   10,176   10,176         932   1,696   1,696   2,330   4,240   4,240   2,330   4,240   4,240
Livestock /q           40           -        -       211         -        -       22        -       -        -        -        -      189
Total                    67,128   121,146   141,040       55,432  99,946  93,868   3,070   5,575   6,860   8,626  15,625  40,312
For footnotes refer to Annex 4, Table 4.
>4



-68                                   ANNEX 4
Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Footnotes to Tables 1, 2 and 3, Annex 4
/a  P describes present situation; W/0 describes future - year 30 - without pro-
gram situation; W describes future - year 30 - with program situation.
/b Assumes 2 times area in subsistence crops for models A and B and a
coefficient of 2.5 for Model C.  In the with program situation this fallow
to subsistence crop ratio is reduced to 1.5 in Models A and B, and to 2 in
Model C.
/c Other areas include trails, home garden and house areas, etc.
/d Present area based on 0.01 ha of home garden per capita. In the without
program situation, area expands in future at the same rate as population
growth (2% p.a.), except in case of Clan A where land shortage prevents
expansion after year 20. In the with program situation, future area is
based on per capita production being the same as present level.
/e Harvested area of native forest is determined by fuelwood requirements
(estimated at 2.2 cu m per person). Assumption on future area same as /d
above.
/f Assumes casuarina being intercropped with sweet potato and/or planted in
fallow area.
/g Based on average requirement of 0.1 ha per person. Assumption on future
area same as in /d above.
/h  In the with program situation: (a) For commercial crops (vegetables, coffee,
cardamom, pyrethrum) incremental cropped area and yields is achieved gra-
dually over an eight-year period from the year the clan is first contacted.
Subsequently both yields and area stay constant until Year 30. (b) For
subsistence crops, incremental yields are achieved in eight years; cropped
area depends on population. After the eight-year period, there is no
increase in yield but cropped area increases with population increase and is
such that per capita production is constant (/d above). Future cropped area
shown here is that required in Year 30. The impact of these changes on
income is illustrated in Table 7.
/i Intercropped with sweet potatoes.
/j Intercropped with coffee.
/k Coffee yields in parchment. Yields and inputs are averaged over useful
life of plant.
/1 Forest yields represent average output per ha for a period of 30 years.
/m  Economic farm-gate prices (financial prices adjusted for subsidies, taxes,
duties and other costs; the standard conversion factor used is equal to
unity).
/n Shadow price of labor is K 1 per day; employment rates - based on an estima-
ted 240 working days p.a. per economically active person - and man-days
worked per year are as follows:
P      W/O      w
Annual working days per person
Clans A                            229     185      203
Clans B                            230     226      203
Clans C                            222     221      207
Employment Rate (X)
Clans A                             95      77       85
Clans B                             96      94       85
Clans C                             93      92       86
/o Includes production for pig feeding.
/p Home garden, produces complementary foods, spices and medicinal herbs.
Because of complex mixture of products, gross revenue has been equated with
that of vegetables, while labor inputs are less due to the inclusion of
number of perennial and tree crops in these gardens.
/q Livestock figures are based on sheep flock development model and assumes
adoption of livestock by 22% of clans in each model.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Clan Model Distribution /a
Model A      Model B     Model C
District            Population   No. of clans    No.    %   No.    %    No.    %
Wabag                 43,347           124          100   81      4     3    20    16
Lagaip                34,844           100            -    -   100   100      -      -
Wapenamanda           31,575            90           80   89      -     -    10    11
Kandep                27,069            77           10   13      1     1    66    86
Kompiam               18,792            54           20   37     -      -    34    63
Porgera                8,849            25            -    -      -     -    25   100
Province        164,476          470          210   45   105    22   155    33
/a Mission estimates.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Clans Reached /a
Program                                                          Cumulative  Cumulative
years                    Model A    Model B    Model C /b          total           %
2
3                         5            5            5             15            3
4                        10            6            8             39            8
5                        15            6            8             68           14
6                        15            6            8             97           21
7                        15            6            8            126           27
8                        15            6            8            155           33
9                        15            5            8            183           39
10                        15            5            5            208           44
11                        15            5            5            233           50
12                        15            5            5            258           55
13                        10            5            5            278           59
14                        10            5            5            298           63
15                        10            5            5            318           68
16                         5            5            5            333           71
17                         5            5            5            348           74
18                          5           5            5            363           77
19                          5           5            5            378           80
20                          4           4            5            391           83
21                         4            2            5            402           86
22                         4            1            5            412           88
23                         3            1            4            420           89
24                          3           1            3            427           91
25                          2           1            2            432           92
26                          1           1            1            435           93
27                          1           1            1            438           93
28                          1           1            1            441           94
29                          1           1            1            444           94
30                          1           1            1            447           95
Total no. of
clans reached        210         105           132           447            95
Total no. of
clans in model       210         105           155           470           100
/a Phasing based on present and future accessibility of clans and expansion
of extension network.
/b Fifteen percent of clans C are not reached during the program's life.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPM4ENT PROJECT
Phasing of Benefits
A. Individual Clan /a
Impact years                                                                       Subsequent years
Year                               Eight years                                   Annual
Net Revenue Index           contacted                             after contact                                  growth                                 Annual growth
Subsistence Crops /b
With program                 100                                      215                                        10                                          2 /c
Without program              100                                      117                                         2                                          2
Cash Crops /d
With program                 1OO                                      372                                        18                                          0
Without program              100                                         0                                        0                                          0
B.  Total Clans Ie
Program year
1  2  3  4   5   6   7   8   9~ 10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29   30
% of clans contacted            0 03811522228 3541 4653 5862 6672 75 788184 8791 939496979898 9899 9100o
% of total incremental
benefits achieved /f          0  0  0  0   1   3   5   9  14  19  24  30  35  41  46  51  56  60  65  69  73  77  80  84  87  90  93  96  98  100
Ia  Indicates response of an individual clan after it has been contacted.
lb  As it is based on population, net revenue from subsistence crops (sweet potato, borne garden produce and forestry) would depend on the year
the clan is contacted.
Ic  Net revenues increase with expected population growth (2Z p.a.).
Td For cash crops net revenue is independent of contact year as it is assumed cash crops production does not increase in the without program
situation.                                                                                   ~ 
/e  Indicates phasing of total incremental benefits.  The lag between Incremental benefits achieved and clans contacted results from the 8-year                                    a>
response period for an individual clan. 
/f Year 30 is assumed to be full development, although for clans reached after Year 22 full development would occur after Year 30 given the
8-year development period for a clan.



_ 72 -
ANNEX 4
Ta.ble 8
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecast of Agricultural Production
Years
0          5           10           15            20           30
Pres-
ent     W      W         W      W     W   W     W      W      W     W
Commercial
Vegetables /a    2        2      3      2     6      2    10      2    13       2    15
('000 tons)
Coffee
(parchment)
('000 tons)   1.5    1.5   1.6   1.5   2.1   1.5   3.7   1.5   4.3   1.5,  5.0
Pyrethrum
(tons)         210    210   220   210   290   210   400   210   460   210   520
Cardamom
(tons)           -       -      3     -    15       -    29      -    40      -    53
Subsistence
Sweet potato
('000 tons)   350    380   380   410   420   450   470   480   520   570   620
Home garden
produce
('000 tons)    24       25    25    28    31    30    38    33    46    39    58
Pigs
('000 heads)  210    230   240   250   260   280   290   300   320   360   390
Sheep
('000 heads)  0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.3   0.1   0.4   0.1   0.5
Fuelwood
('000 cu m)   330    350   350   370   390   390   430   420   480   470   560
/a  Represent 60% of incremental vegetable production.  The remaining is assumed
to be consumed on farm and is included in home garden produce.



- 73 -                             ANNEX 4
Table 9
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Total 30-Year ioads and Agricultural Investments Package
(K million)
Costs
Peri-                  Benefits                 Agricul-                       Net
ods      Clans A  Clans B  Clans C  Total   tural /a  Roads /b  Total  benefits
1         0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00       0.51       0.31     0.82    -0.82
2         0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00.    0.58        0.31     0.89    -0.89
3         0.00      0.00      0.01    0.01      0.63       0.31     0.94    -0.93
4         0.01      0.00      0.02    0.03      0.50       0.31     0.81    -0.77
5         0.03      0.02      0.06    0.11      0.55       0.38     0.93    -0.82
6         0.08      0.04     0.13    0.25       0.57       0.45     1.02    -0.77
7         0.18      0.08      0.23    0.49      0.58       0.52     1.10    -0.61
8         0.33      0.13      0.36    0.83      0.60       0.59     1.19    -0.36
9         0.54      0.20      0.51    1.25      0.46       0.66     1.12      0.13
10         0.79      0.28      0.67    1.74      0.47       0.73     1.20      0.53
11         1.06      0.35      0.83    2.24      0.49       0.80     1.29      0.95
12         1.34      0.43     0.98    2.75       0.49      0.87      1.37      1.39
13         1.63      0.51      1.12    3.26      0.51       0.94     1.45      1.81
14         1.91      0.59      1.25    3.75      0.52       1.01     1.53      2.22
15         2.19      0.66      1.38    4.23      0.50       1.08     1.59      2.64
16         2.46      0.74      1.50    4.70      0.51       1.15     1.66      3.04
17         2.70      0.82      1.62    5.14      0.51       1.22     1.74      3.40
18         2.93      0.91      1.74    5.58      0.53       1.29     1.82      3.76
19         3.12      0.99      1.87    5.98      0.54       1.36     1.90      4.08
20         3.28      1.08      2.00    6.36      0.55       1.43     1.99      4.37
21         3.42      1.17      2.13    6.72      0.57       1.43     2.00      4.72
22         3.57      1.26      2.27    7.09      0.58       1.43     2.02      5.07
23         3.68      1.35      2.40    7.43      0.60       1.43     2.03      5.40
24         3.79      1.43      2.54    7.76      0.62       1.43     2.05      5.71
25         3.90      1.49      2.67    8.06      0.63       1.43     2.07      6.00
26         4.03      1.55      2.80    8.37      0.65       1.43     2.08      6.29
27         4.12      1.60      2.91    8.63      0.67       1.43     2.10      6.52
28         4.20      1.64      3.01    8.85      0.68       1.43     2.12      6.73
29         4.27      1.69      3.09    9.05      0.70       1.43     2.14      6.91
30         4.35      1.73      3.16    9.25      0.72       1.43     2.16      7.09
__---- -- -             -  - ----  --- - -ERR = 17.4% - --------- - ---- - ---- -
/a Agricultural costs include total agricultural costs under the project and
the costs of coffee and cardamom estate; the assumption regarding costs
beyond the project period is that the size of agricultural investment in the
second phase would be similar to the proposed project, and that from then
onwards the recurrent costs are increased by 3% to reflect expansion of the
extension network.
/b Road costs include costs of project roads, and about 25 km of roads
assumed to be improved over the next 20 years; by which time the entire
provincial road network would have been improved. Costs include both
capital (K 15,000/km) and incremental maintenance (K 3,500/km), which in
economic terms equal K 13,200/km and K 3,080/km respectively. For project
roads, there is no incremental maintenance costs, as these costs are
expected to decline from present levels (para. 3.19); however, decrease
in costs have not been included in benefits in order to keep estimates on
the conservative side.



-74 -
ANNEX 4
Table 10
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Total 30-Year Roads and Agricultural Investments Package
% of road cost
being considered
0           50        100
Summary Economic Characteristics
ERR (%)                                                 26.3        21.4        17.4
NPV (K million)                                         13.7        10.5         7.3
Switching Values at 10% /a
Incremental benefits                                   -73.0       -56.0       -39.0
Sweet potatoes - yield /b                              -51.0       -38.0       -27.0
Program costs                                          265.0       126.0        63.0
Sensitivity Analysis                                     --------- ERR (%) -
Incremental benefits lagged 1 year                      23.3        18.8        15.1
Incremental benefits lagged 3 years                     18.9        14.8        11.3
Incremental benefits reduced 50%                        17.2        11.7         6.6
Incremental costs increased 50%                         20.9        15.7        11.3
Incremental benefits lagged 3 years and
costs increased by 20%                                17.1        12.8        10.2
/a  Percentage change in parameter value which would result in the program's
economic rate of return becoming equal to 10%.
/b  Percentage change in assumed incremental yield.



ANNEX 5
- 75 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
Enga Yaaka Lasemana: Enga Provincial Development Programme: Vol. I and II -
Enga Provincial Government, Wabag, PNG, November 1981.
Enga Provincial Forest Development - J.G. Groome and Associates, New Zealand,
November 1980.
Enga Province: Road Construction and Small Hydro Schemes: Beca Carter,
Hollings & Ferner Pty., Ltd., PNG, September 1980.
Enga Integrated Rural Development Study: Physical Infrastructure and Services
in Enga Province, DWS, Enga, September 1979.
Towards an Enga Education Strategy - Educational Research Unit; Working Paper
No. 3, PNG, September 1980.
Enga Provincial Development Project: Working Paper No. 1 - Sociological Aspects
Working Paper No. 2 - Agriculture
Working Paper No. 3 - Health
Working Paper No. 4 - Education
Working Paper No. 5 - Community Develop-
ment
Working Paper No. 6 - Commercial Assist-
ance and Trade Training
Working Paper No. 7 - Provincial Institu-
tion Building
Working Paper No. 8 - Project Organiza-
tion, Management and Control
Working Paper No. 9 - Infrastructure
Component



- 76 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION CHART
POLITICAL LEVEL
Provincial
Assembly
Provincial
Cabinet
National
CIVIL SERVICE LEVEL                                            Department of Enga                                                                                    Departments
Secretary's Staff Committee
Responsible for Coordination
S    and Monitoring and Comprises                                   Dopartment of
all Divisional Heads,
I    Staff Devleopment Committee
Responsible for Training and
[   Deputy                |   Personnel Matters and Comprises
Secretary                  L         all Divisional Heads
---         ------
Policy and                                                                                                 Field Services                            Highlands Area
Planning Wing                                                                                                                                         WorWi  Woks Manager
Organization and             Finance and
Itf  DvlomnManagement                                         Health                    Education                 Enga Branch of
Staff Deveiopment               Svices                      Division                    Division                Woks and Supply
j  Division~ ~ ~~Dviio
* -  - -  -      Division~ ~~~~~                                          DMio
Provincial
Administration
Division
Internal                                                                                                     Project
Auditor                                                                                                    C Ooordinator    |
IPCI
D Exisiting Division
Committees
-   Division Established Under Project
Each Wing is headed by First Assistant Secretary (FAS), while each Division is headed by
an Assistant Secretary (AS); the Project Coordinator is same rank as Assistant Secretary.
World Bank -23067



- 77 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT FUNDS/INFORMATION FLOW
REIMBURSEMENT
FROM BANK
FINANCE                   NATIONAL PLANNING                    OTHER
DEPARTMENT                       OFFICE                       DEPARTMENTS
|~~~~~.                      S
FINANCE/NPO
HQPC'S
NATIONAL LEVEL
PROVINCIAL LEVEL
GUARTERLY WARRANT
r            AUTHORITY
SECRETARY                                                 QUARTERLY
l          DEPARTMENT OF                                            PHYSICAL/FINANCIAL
l               ENGA                                                     REVIEW
CASH FUNDS
l ~~CERTIFICATEe
~~~~.....  !.................................... . .. . . .. . . . . .
. I  I                                                              *,     5
I                                                              .      SSECRETARY'S STAFF COMMITTEE
SALARIES         |
. I|  REGULAR   SECRETARY,S STFFC        E        REGULAR
QUARTERLY                R
S ~~~~~~............                  ....
*   X  .  |  > ^ 3 l~~~~~~~~~~~~* 
PROVINCIAL                                      I .  |    DEPARTMENT OF
IMPLEMENTING                   PROJECT                    WORKS AND SUPPLY
AGENCIES        -CODNTR- (PROVINCIAL BRANCH)
CONSOLIDATED
I   OPERATING                    CIVI L WORKS/VEHICLESj
________________              ~~PROVINCIAL
ACCOUNTANT
PROJECT COMPONENTS
LEGEND:
'- - - - --COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTING/STATEMENTS
......----...FUNDS FLOW
....-.. ...PROGRESS REPORTING
- - ~-  COORDINATION LINKS                                                                     World Bank- 23091






9103 A.910QoM    ooo0 -~4                                   - -   dft119
90090>11   000  -       .........                      ----  ----                  -             --------------09------------------------                                                    -----wo
10- 190--M     00                                                                                                                                     9i.od                    n-90  90090
19091900-ll1 909000  -           -------   --                                                                                                                          ---------uISIOOI9
ii   -           -                   90003901-D I 11-A 5, --I90
-    -    -     19                             L0'L'-0 ----------N--L- ---------N-I--3------
1090950L1    11100019900   -               -   -    -       ~         ~         ---  --  ------  ----------------------------------------   ----
10 LiS 9i;o1uo1 ~        ~           ~           ~           -A B..!Vg41&;
90330003  0333003000                                                                                                 - ---- --------0---- ------------- - I----)
7-~~ ~~~~~~~ - -q0.S10Os                                                                                     0100 9          0P IIO9 HI0U00N
--   - - - - - - -- - - -              .     . .. . . .     -  - - - - --  - - - - - -  - -  - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -  ----   - - - -  - - -
91,90 959905100 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                        -04~-H .p.d
9390139110500500    -                                                                                                       JN9190013030  3930393001~~~~~~........   --------
0590009591-191999199 M090 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Tm                                      () ip;;~~                                --------
l500lL09l91190!0091L---  -------Z-iTH(- 011.                                                                      UO9LOdA   99q 10
LL090019110909091951159----o-------- -                                     --------                                                           --ATM 2~ ()-------------
M  - T~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                              .'Phq-lyj~~~~~~905993 1990
I990099N1900L001999~-                                    t..     --   --------                                        -------------------  --------                         --  ----0--
9090009305999 019909  11  Al  ILl     10            ~           ~           ~           ~j-d1-a3P0019030  *9-390
L951093    009  9015--            --  --9-  -- --  --           ---0--,-     --  -- -     -- -- -- -- -   --0---  -- -- -- --     - -- -- -- -- -- -0-- -- -- -- --  -- -- -- -- --S-    -- -
101901900 00090                                                                                                90090~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -l 90090P995s  0Iq9-A9d
915911010099510--- ----- - 1-- --- ---- ----9-1- -- --- ----                                -  -- -9-900--- -----             -l-- ----- --- -- ------  j1461 p9    ld          -   --  ---       -----
199093 90!0109L 10990 0905W99 N3099
99599099-90901590 0 1 -00000 N                                                                         -9 -                                                          E0090p  9091 -.090
III   101 ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      NVJO1A3     10I3I
990L9050-1515050900,59.9o19                                  ---   m--       --- --  ---     --     -----    - .  -------------             -    -------          ---------------
..   ....   .....   ...                     ---~~~-   - - - --   -- -0-- -- -- -- -- -- -   --  -- - 0- ----    - 93 ---- ---  --- --- ---  --- --- --- --
595009009-01909100 93910590                                   01 ~        ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~--lK-
N~~~~~~~9l0 00101, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~ ~ ;-  l~ P'-    -1fi
901199000010959111100310910L                                                                                         10300031030----  ---1-----0---0--------------------I------ I-I---- I-------------------
I9l[IlI0IBI9loI[L0S  SILl 0A
---0         0 9 ---     --- 0--                        .9 0          ... .    ..   -- --- ---- --         ------- -- --     - -- -    -- --- ---               -- --
HlflCHHOS  NOIIV-------------IN-------------------------------JI-
lo2roHd IN2WdQ1HA3O 1VI3NIAOnHd1V VOHN-B-
--- -N--- --- -- --                --  -- - - - -  -- - - - - --  --l-    --  - - - - -- - -  - - -- - --d--    - -  - -
-----                      -----~~-    9 -    - --   - - - - - -






_  _                        IBRD 1576'r
5'.  EzSr                                                                                                                                      'Q.  I 1
\.           .                                                                           ---_. 4            .---r                                       -              /J                .AA2 7
w ~ ~ ~ ~~          ~                 ~                ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A t4*t    3  NA A/
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N~~~~~~~~~~~-
A,tit.]                                                                                         HIGH              A    :-v-   \   ,
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kr 
301                                                                                  -                                                                   ,                 A                                                                E         NG     ES'/R  N
z ~~~~~~~5tPTI                                          K,                           (,  -      5~Ar    1-               k' ,S_, sVgR>\_  rlia wdr
~~~~~~~T~tgC                                                 a        l S ea .- -. If                                                                                                                          PAPUA   NEW    UINE
_           '-,  _    /                                                                                                                                                           POPULATION DISTRIBUTIONAAND
- -  .  ~~5~4ERI4P0  /-                    W~~R,e*)~~t   ~ .sc            -.     Etyar4nd, ~ROAD   NETWORK
~oROADS MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES
I                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROAD CONDITION AND USABILITY
/                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~llwR-,oner-i ardaU.N.b/eST-ok, F-srV-I Si-e
Ok                                                   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Often Closad n Wet Season -nd Sae. Sn, F-n, Whe. Dtrot
SOU ThRE RN/                 H/Cf/LANDS                       -                                 -'NYonceqs/ad WersE DiffinoItY bY Light Vehicles
--  4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l ~.b.MOM ..b -W- H
SestdforRtItr,c,   oc Ro-dsl
atOP  V  K              KA~~~~~~~~~~~ooaIr         /     K          /                                                   ..-.n.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
N  10i1mN'*) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K                                             V  ~      ~      ~    ~~-Oe,  HN0peotrl      P.-I
)                        ~~~~~~~~TERRAIN CASSES
...>   I  d,cno,ch Sop                                                        /                     ,  - ~~~~                        A-       r~  *V-m~~)                       L               L      B.iw 1400 MOtens
T,, K]p                                                                                                                       1400 - 2600 Mrtr-
I'   n  '                               \K.o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  >                     A-~~~~~~~~~~~~'A                                                           77j~~~~~~~~~2600 Met.so Acci
M.  ---                                                                                      n M
y-'  p-<j                                                                                       4.    5             c~                             00~)                                            -   -Inrecrod.ont1B-oo.r-anie
PA  '                                                             Wci jdg-en-mn,rea".I,ee  soy                                                                                                                            5      tO     tS5    20    26       350      ew
-'      ,hojLhcA    t0nc-   .ni-re,nronvcr - en-edo-nro                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS
CarlSaIr0                                                                                                                                                                            40






__    _      _   __                                       _      ____ _____________  ____________  ______                                                                  __________________________                                                                                                              IBRD 1577
142Pf  34' 3P                                                                                   144nPP                                                                    JUNO  1-1
-saP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                                                                                                                                    
-                                                                                                                                                                      S    F   K  >    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ / / t; 0 0 X , S o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               4 4
7                                                                                                                                                      Y' K7-   .-t-                                             1-
X              .-       g               \<                      _,    \,j  ,                                                              "41-n--                   /              A                                                               -t9 _ u,     ,'    0      a     
|~~                                  ~         ~ ~ C"<-"                    -'--                                                   -'-  --                       j'        .                                                                         ,.                      ' A  ';  VLj.f';F..
7'                                                                         41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j  -  _ \ t Jtr _< C ~N                                                                "       An'iae.                    2                               m m;p31r'   ///u/ i  1/DS
''                                                              I /                                                / ruon ;                                                                                                                                          5 ' ;; Xt; Pog   -a  >  !  Tupikor3S  PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
K                                                                                                 4N-                                                                                                                 I                --- ;!-4                  8                       ij1*zr:  ,~+fS.led    o  y  
,                                                     dA;~~~Y  T       K,sfo              ,,         ,,p                                                              _ 
P--\~~~~~~~~--4-
:J~~~~~2                                                                           o/FkLa    * H/ - /   v,'- /_' '  ,'-  ',                                           /w        ,     .     '        R        AM                         1y                                     I   Ymtr?N\j pottoArutraExn
-'41'-"J                        efA                               \'t                                          g >       ,W          E 44V   AP               A  1,e3r    54t4ninlz  re)
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                                             . --"-"                       /v    --....;t .>t)t     mnarm
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C;l ;2i4;Li;r5                                                                                                                                                                                    at1dR sA                                 U        L L Ton
t                                                               |    -  ,2 > 1 p>@ EJLg Thfs ap Lasber7(p  r                 dbVK                                                                       -            t* M e l e.                            P J       R-' 4u . , 'd FrerTalun Cne
~~~~~~r                   tkU                        -                N                                                   5                                     '   4,                                         I                t  -- t-   4- .b.d' hwno hsmp\414 j1\_.-nF ,l l g+rrs -8OMteso bv
4   33iutfeteapd   t,  S    7    /   O   !   MSorSdbantia7dstJ LYzIlates d'I-',                                                                                    Stsnf            \"'r    0o14s                                         IDtI5.,20/25N30
A~~~NG
)   V  .,  e  ,   hdLtelt   6t   anT 7or,torv ora Ve d ePROVINCIA                                                                                                                                               DIOEVELOMNTPOJC
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                                    ' f or/SN -                  7/da _~ _-> ___ __L,    '                                                                                                  _/
Kattp"( V'---'-4-                                                     aye4R-0 - kh
~~~    '>                  f                 ~~~~~~~~   PROV~~AGINCIALTR DROEVEOMETPRJC
K  tCe~~~~eU4rott          .,,           -I          't-"'                                           USOPto  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~....'-'                                I  'I I Kiloton Forest Poteott-aHlh Atft.,, ...
'N.                                             t                          4                                     r"                     MoUit.manltq  '4o   M44leN~~~'j . ...Me. S,                           amps1t   91111E.
I        /                   .7      Aetollerpa-        ,                 /         AG~~~~~~~~~~~~RCICU LTR  PROJECTS
-''41-                       'I                                                            41       >'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       I       /                    Telotna~~~~~~~~~~P-   C.ff- A ICd ,  -,
'j'-H54N  H'EH                                                        "      >}'         N                                                 ' . U   YornbenttI                                /                     Oitn ends Orohid Coilsotion~_5A  P-h-   ,--    P[~,l N. S...
7                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A-~~~~~~4-''           '.    - R E   4   D AOIesLTRLn  EDUeATIOrNiPROJECSl
'No'.   '         7              \          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   ~~                                                              .--           . , l    g  .,
0                                                             W-W S-A                                                                                                                                                                                 13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  1  11N12 Pttoo   Pro4 si00an  Nt ho-
A'.4                                                                  \>--,                                               1                   /              '-"                      StoI-h101Ae00o  Tt6 nir Certer
Or                                             'If                 Wnnionarr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8kttdal~ fle,-rte,                                                                              i.                                                            54t l4U   ert
to  4,                                         'nlrrnOon,nienOenhneneedernn                                 o,            N                                 -              '41"                           Genrol Unindarin                               l4UU  264 Miner
Untoinonsne  .7  tSenepnrtlna'n,rntin nIrtoned                                              'n-~~~~~~~-n>      -''---Ptnonoaillo.rrnrrKILOMETER






fl  itAw'                                          t,#r                                                                                                                         IBRDIS/'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR) 51
P-,                                                                                LT II<                                                     N
\                                        -s                                    '4                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
~~~~  N~~E G
N             '                                                                                                            f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUAINDSRBTO
-   9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/Y                                                                                           -50PI
N'                               C,                                                            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EV..d  ..D,RP-     0P1
N  Ni.'  Lendol        'NA~~~~~~~~~~~~-..i S-
\            'eaiiad~~~wp-  '  \                                                                                             dYPATOA
.Meri  .9   F         i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-...iF-. T.-9C
50 Y T  k N  H         /V L~~~.1s              rflpt                          Kt\4_&".-AA7H -NEWGUNE
I!  '      'A                                                      4\l       HoqileB     -t                      'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.lP
Posers ~ ~       N- /Ho                                                                                              POVNCA   DEVELOMENT  ROJEC
-  /                                                  SRI                         /                               SOCIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.dPlW
ll~~~~.Ith C ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    es
/                                                        /         Tuplooren~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H.t Sb-
T,.                                                                                             p-~~~~~~~~~~~-Do  o Aqrtet H eol
-N'--    '-                                  /                                                                                  ,    /               K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  --    -f    9d
W     aolOd  a                                                                         tWit        trd&aaoa                    Proosed rela3
-N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~-' <A                      N   U                                      ~                                                                 /              Vopacops/Fafmer KLMTtanRS  an



