Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3242-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR THE
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 18, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discl_od wito  World Bank autborion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   - Kina (K)
Kl               US$1.50
US$l          = K 0.67
WEIGHT$S AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)            -  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)         -  2.205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km) -  100 ha
1 hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DWS     -   Department of Works and Supply
HQPCC   -   Headquarters Project Coordinating Committee
HQPCO   -   Headquarters ProJect Coordinating Officer
LDP     -   Less Developed Province
NPEP    -   National Public Expenditure Plan
NPO     -   National Planning Office
PC      -   Project Coordinator
PI      -   Project Implementation division (NPO)
PNG     -   Papua New Guinea
PNGDB   -   PNG Development Bank
SSC     -   Secretary's Staff Committee
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Papua New Guinea
Beneficiary:       Province of Enga
Amount:            Credit:  US$2.0 million (SDR 1.7 million)
Loan:    US$6.0 million
Total:   US$8.0 million
Terms:             Credit:  Standard
Loan:    For a period of 17 years, including a grace period
of 4 years, with an interest of 11.60% p.a.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would constitute the first four-year
phase of the Government's eight-year plan to accelerate
social and economic development in Enga province, which is
one of the poorest in the country and where the way of
life of the vast majority of its population has remained
almost unchanged since neolithic times. The objective of
the project is to strengthen the human, agricultural,
institutional and physical resource base to enable the
directly-productive and market-oriented activities to be
carried out in the second phase of the plan.
Specifically, the project would: (a) help maintain food
production and improve nutrition by promoting growth in
the subsistence system through the introduction of improved
agricultural technologies and practices to farmers;
(b) support low-cost income-generating activities, e.g.,
cash crops and small-scale enterprises; (c) improve
provincial roads, facilities for health care, and govern-
ment services; (d) increase the coverage of the formal and
vocational education systems; (e) support community
development activities to promote inter-clan cooperation,
thus creating conditions conducive to development; and
(f) strengthen the provincial government, local social
services and the availability of trained manpower through
technical assistance, training and local participation.
Experience gained under the project will be applied in the
design of similar development programs in other provinces.
The main project risks are: (a) the likely delay in
recruiting the professional staff required to help
implement the project, owing to procedural problems and a
general reluctance to work in such a remote area;
(b) potential management and coordination problems because
of the comprehensiveness of the project; and (c) the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
possibility of introducing culturally inappropriate
practices. The recruitment risk would be minimized by the
early recruitment of key project staff and the Government's
newly introduced policy of paying an inducement allowance
to public servants working in less developed areas. To
ensure coordination of the various project components, a
Project Coordinator has been appointed. Also, a social
evaluator would be appointed to monitor the socioeconomic
appropriateness of, and response of the population to,
project activities.
Estimated Cost:                                             Local/a  Foreign  Total
---- ($   million) ----
Agricultural development                 1.5        1.1       2.6
Infrastructure                           1.5        1.9       3.4
Health services                          1.0        1.1       2.1
Education                                0.6        0.4       1.0
Community Development                    0.2        0.2       0.4
Commercial assistance and training    0.4           0.3       0.7
Institution building                     1.1        1.1       2.2
Base cost estimate                     6.3        6.1      12.4
Physical contingencies                   0.3        0.5       0.8
Expected price increases                 1.4        1.4       2.8
Tocal Project Cost                 8.0        8.0     16.0
Financing Plan:                                             Local    Foreign  Tot-1
($ million) ---
World Bank Group                           -        8.0       t
Government                               8.0          -       8.
Total                              8.0        8.0     16.0
Estimated          Bank Group FY:          FY82    FY83    FY84         FY85    FY86
Disbursements:                           ---…----- ($ million) -------------
Annual                  0.7      1.6     1.8        1.8      2.1
Cumulative              0.7     2.3      4.1        5.9      8.0
Rate of Return:   17% on a 30-year investment program comprising roads and
agricultural development.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 3602-PNG dated March 11, 1982.
/a Including $0.5 million for taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMfENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF
PAPUA NEW GUINEA FOR THE ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit and a Loan to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea
for the Enga Provincial Development Project for the equivalent of US$8.0
million of which SDR 1.7 million (US$2.0 million) would be a credit on
standard IDA terms and US$6.0 million would be a loan for a period of 17
years with 4 years of grace at 11.60% interest p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Economic Situation and
Prospects" (Report No. 2157-PNG), was distributed to the Executive Directors
in December 1978. An economic mission visited PNG in February/March 1981;
the following discussion of the economy of PNG is based on this work. Details
of recent economic data can be found in Annex I.
Structure of the Economy
3.         Papua New Guinea is a land of rugged and sometimes impenetrable
mountains, rich valleys and coastal plains, and numerous widely scattered
islands.  It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral
resources, and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential.
The capital city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an
enclave, with no road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest
urban settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. The most
striking feature of PNG's economy is the dualism reflected in the relatively
small employment in the modern monetary sector and the large proportion of the
population engaged in the traditional agricultural sector. The modern sector
is dominated by the Bougainville copper mine and by the nonnational community
which was previously part of the Australian administration and which still
contributes significantly to both the public administration and the private
sector. Mining contributes about 15% of GDP, and the government sector and a
variety of small manufacturing and service establishments contribute about
half of GDP. Agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, which employ about 85%
of the labor force, provide the rest of GDP, with about 40% of the sectoral
output coming from subsistence agriculture.
4.         Per capita GNP in 1980 was US$780.  Less than 1% of the population
earns incomes that average roughly 20 times those of nationals. When only
nationals are considered, economic dualism in PNG is not as significant an



- 2 -
an issue as encountered in other countries with a similar economic
structure. The average salary of national civil servants who make up the
bulk of the modern sector for nationals is only about five times the
estimated income of a subsistence household. While this difference does
indicate the presence of inequalities, they are less extreme than, for
example, in many African countries. The Government's development objectives
call for a further reduction in disparities. At the same time, the
Government has developed policies to minimize the impact of dualism in
jspecific areas. For example, the renegotiation of the agreement with
Bougainville Copper Ltd. ensured that the Government would get the bulk of
profits over a certain level. Since the remainder of the profits accruing
to the company and much of the expenditure incurred in the operations of the
mine are paid overseas, they have little impact on local incomes.
5.        PNG faced a critical period before and immediately following
independence when, for three consecutive years (FY75-77), the economy failed
to grow significantly. This resulted from the international recession as
much as from conditions in PNG, but it compounded the difficulties faced by
an emerging nation. In 1978 and 1979 GDP growth averaged over 5% p.a. in
real terms, but the growth was weaker in the second year than in the first,
and preliminary figures indicate a decline in 1980. The terms of trade
effect was strongly negative in 1978, but not in 1979, and over the two
years gross domestic income averaged nearly the same growth rate as GDP.
When the Ok Tedi copper and gold mine begins production (in 1984), growth
rates of GDP are likely to improve, but there is still a need to improve
economic performance, particularly in the agricultural sector, which has
lagged behind the rest of the economy. Investment appears not to have
picked up in this sector as it has in the economy generally. Since agricul-
ture is the major source of employment and income for the bulk of PNG's
population, its failure to grow implies a deterioration in the incomes and
living standards of many people.
6.        The large fluctuations in the growth of PNG's economy result partly
from its vulnerability to international economic conditions. Imports are
high, and international inflation is quickly passed on. Exports are
dominated by four commodities - copper concentrate, coffee, cocoa, and copra -
which contribute about 85% of total export earnings. Price fluctuations
can thus have a severe impact on the economy. In addition, PNG runs a
substantial structural deficit on its current account, the counterpart of
the large budgetary grant from Australia, equivalent to about one-third of
exports.
7.        The Government has taken a number of steps to reduce the impact of
variations in the international economy. A Mineral Resources Stabilization
Fund smooths the impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and
stabilization funds for coffee, cocoa, and copra are designed to reduce the
oscillations in prices received by producers, thereby also dampening



- 3 -
price-induced supply responses and contributing to the stability of the
economy. To date the management of these funds has been very disciplined
and has reduced the fluctuations in government spending that might otherwise
have occurred. Two three-year wage agreements have limited the rise of both
public and private sector wages to that of the consumer price index, subject
to a present maximum of 11.75%, thus ending the sharp upward spiral of real
wages that occurred during 1972-75. The hard currency policy followed by
the Government has helped to cut down inflation to an average of 8% p.a. in
the last three years, compared to an average of more than 12% in earlier
years. In the area of foreign aid, the Government has established the
principle of multi-year agreements with Australia, the major donor, which
guarantee a steady, though declining, flow of aid. These agreements have
helped the Government to proceed in an orderly manner with its development
planning.
Development Strategy and Planning
8.        In the post-independence period a concerted effort has been
undertaken to define a set of economic and social policies and to establish
the means by which decisions in allocating government resources will be
taken in a disciplined and consistent manner. More weight has been given to
developing a viable economic strategy and a decision-making process for the
use of government resources than to the preparation of a comprehensive
development plan. Three major steps have been taken in PNG in the last few
years: (a) a national development strategy has been defined; (b) a set of
sectoral programs and strategic objectives/criteria has been identified to
provide the basis for resource allocations; and (c) a process for evaluating
new investment proposals based upon (b) has been established.
9.        The national development strategy places a high priority on
improving the quality of life of the rural population. It focuses on rural
development, emphasizing the less developed areas of the country, but a
second objective is the development of a few large natural resource projects
aimed at reducing the present very heavy reliance on aid and leading towards
economic self-reliance. The first objective recognizes not only the
agricultural potential of the country, but also the fact that the
agricultural sector will be for quite a few generations the main source of
income generation and employment. The second objective, while not directly
benefitting the vast majority of the population, is intended to provide a
resource base, thus allowing the implementation of development programs.
The implementation of the second objective clearly entails the import of
foreign capital and expertise. PNG has developed a policy of encouraging
private investment for the exploitation of the country's resources, while
attempting to minimize its own investment in these areas and to maximize the
revenues it would obtain from such developments.
10.       To carry out its development strategy, the Government established
the annual National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP), a rolling four-year plan
for the public sector which focuses political decision making on nine
strategic objectives and the tradeoffs between them. Government departments



- 4 -
are then assigned portions of each strategic objective allocation on the
basis of specific projects which support the objective. While the basic
aims of the NPEP are to link the planning process with overall macroeconomic
policy and to direct public spending to the activities that have the highest
national priority, its impact is limited by its coverage of new projects
only. The first NPEP accounted for only 4% of the 1978 expenditures (K 20
million), but future plans will cover increasing portions of the budget as
government revenues grow, ongoing projects are completed and a continuing
review of existing expenditures leads either to their elimination or their
reformulation and inclusion in the NPEP. In the 1981 budget, the NPEP
encompassed nearly one-quarter of total expenditures. Implementation of
NPEP projects has been delayed by lack of staff and experience, but the
record is gradually improving.
Development Issues
11.       The major factors which will affect the Government's ability to
promote economic development are the decentralization of government
activities, the ability to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and
financial resources, and the willingness to take new initiatives in policy
formulation and investment in the agricultural sector.
12.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the central government's ability to pursue its priorities,
while inadequate staffing interferes with the ability of the provinces to
develop their own plans. PNG's topography has made it a country of scattered
tribes, with no great sense of national unity, and a degree of political
decentralization was a necessary response to secessionist pressures.
Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory and financial
control in some areas and will share power with the central Government in
others. Provincial governments are financed through central Government
conditional and unconditional grants, central government refunds of certain
revenues, and their own taxation measures. Unconditional grants, which
allow provinces to spend according to their own priorities, are by far the
most important source of finance; but while in the 1980 budget they comprised
over 80% of central Government payments to the provinces, they amounted to
less than one-quarter of total central government revenues. One of the most
serious problems facing provincial governments is the shortage of trained
and experienced staff, and their most urgent priority is to develop the
capability for budgeting, planning, and project identification and prepara-
tion. The central Government and other organizations assisting the provinces
must make a concerted effort to orient inputs toward that goal.
13.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled manpower
and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has made
substantial progress in replacing nonnationals with nationals, especially
considering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its first



- 5 -
graduates as recently as 1972. However, the country still relies heavily on
nonnationals for many necessary services. In the public sector, localization
has reached an overall level of 90%, compared to 80% in 1971, but at the
higher levels of skill requiring post-secondary education, the proportion of
nationals is still only around 40%. This situation has created a relatively
high cost government and a dependence on foreign aid to help meet these
costs. The shortage of qualified staff is reflected in the existing
vacancies in government, and in some departments the shortages of profess-
ionals are critical. The establishment of provincial governments is adding
to the pressures on existing staff, and the policy of localizing positions
held by nonnationals adds to the demand for trained Papua New Guineans.
14.       To overcome this shortage, training courses are sponsored by the
private sector, by provincial governments and by most central government
departments and statutory authorities to fill their own needs. The existing
training system is uncoordinated and at present inadequate to the task of
filling the country's needs. Steps are being taken to remedy this situation,
including the creation of an interdepartmental committee on technical
training that is to develop a ten-year technial training plan and a National
Occupational Training Authority to improve private sector training efforts.
15.       The Government s efforts to attain financial self-reliance empha-
size modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public expenditure
accompanied by a reduction of reliance on foreign aid (particularly from
Australia). The Government has worked successfully to increase domestic
revenue which has grown from 10% of GDP in FY68 to 20% in 1979. Domestic
revenue, which accounted for only about 36% of government receipts in FY68,
supplied two-thirds of the total in 1980. Tax revenue accounts for about 70%
of domestic revenue. Over the past seven years, the Bougainville copper mine
has been a major source of domestic revenue, averaging 18% of the total and
reaching a peak of 27% in FY76, which should increase when the Ok Tedi mine
starts production in 1984.
16.       PNG is heavily dependent on Australian aid, which still provides
close to 40% of government revenue. However, this ratio has fallen from
nearly 60% in the early 1970s, and the Government expects to continue to
reduce its reliance on the Australian grants. It will do this in part by
raising additional domestic revenue but, in addition, it will continue its
efforts to diversify the sources of foreign financial assistance, although
none of this assistance will be on terms as beneficial as the unconditional
Australian grant to the budget. Recent sources of assistance have included
New Zealand and Japan, as well as the World Bank and the Asian Development
Bank. The Government insists that all projects proposed for foreign aid be
incorporated in the NPEP which is based upon an explicit set of national
development objectives. This ensures that all foreign-financed projects
pass a screening process and are in accord with Government priorities.
17.       Capital expenditures have grown faster than current expenditures
in the last two years, and the estimated share of capital expenditures in
the 1980 budget is about 20%. In order to increase investment and at the



- 6 -
same time raise the level of financial self-reliance, the Government
realizes that it must contain the growth of current expenditures, over 40%
of which go toward paying salaries and wages. The Government is attempting
to limit the growth of wages and of the public service while finding less
expensive sources for expatriate recruitment. Nevertheless, pressures to
increase public spending have been strong and the public deficit has grown
in recent years. The present level is manageable, and the Government has
encountered no difficulties in raising the necessary funds, but continued
efforts will be needed both to expand domestic revenue and to control
expenditures.
18.       While economic management has been sound and a framework for
planning economic development has been evolved, the country s growth perfor-
mance has been disappointing. Of particular concern is a lack of growth in
the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the additions
to the labor force in the foreseeable future. Despite a great potential for
agricultural development, investment in the sector remains low, and its
prospects for the coming decade are not bright unless steps are taken to
bolster its growth. The major constraints are inadequate extension services
for smallholders, a lack of finance, land laws which prevent the consolidation
of holdings too small for economic redevelopment, a shortage of managerial
talent, and legislation designed to encourage the transfer of foreign-owned
plantations to Papua New Guineans, which has been a serious disincentive to
reinvestment. The Government recognizes the gravity of the situation and
has taken some initiatives to improve it, including suspension of the planta-
tion redistribution legislation, measures to supply management skills to
Papua New Guinean-owned estates, and prelimiinary discussions on a reorganiza-
tion of extension services.
External Sector
19.       PNG experienced huge trade deficits prior to the introduction of
copper exports in FY73. The current account deficit was around one quarter of
GDP in the early 1970s. Imports were over 50% of GDP, whereas exports were
only about one-third as high. Since FY73, however, earnings from copper
exports have dwarfed those from other commodities, and, except for small
deficits in FY75/76 when copper and copra prices fell, the balance on current
account, which includes the large Australian grant, remained positive despite
large service payments, and reserves of foreign exchange reached ten months
worth of imports in mid-1979. However, falling commodity prices, a decline
in the copper content in the output of the Bougainville mine, as well as
rising imports and import prices all contributed to a large deficit in the
current account in 1980. Reserves are still at a healthy level (five months
worth of imports in early 1981), but they can be expected to decline further.
20.       The current account deficit in the balance of payments is likely
to grow for the first few years of the decade, as the requirements for the
construction of Ok Tedi cause imports to grow faster than exports, and as



PNG-s terms of trade remain adverse. By mid-decade, however, the growth
rate of imports should fall below that of exports. The country is likely to
require an average net capital inflow of over US$200 million p.a. (in 1981
prices) through 1990, but the bulk of it will come in 1981-86, when the
copper sector will finance over half of the inflow through direct foreign
investment and borrowing.  If the rest of the capital requirement is met by
concessional loans and through official borrowing on terms similar to those
recently obtained by the Government in world capital markets, the result
would be an increase in debt service requirements, especially on account of
present high interest rates. Under these fairly stringent assumptions,
public debt service payments would rise from their present 6% to around 15%
of export earnings by the mid-1980s where they would remain until the end of
the decade.  Total external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1980
amounted to US$617 million, of which US$162 million (26%) was owed to the
Bank Group. Debt service payments to the Bank group are only 9% of total
debt service payments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       As of September 30, 1981, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of seven loans, eight development credits, and two loans/credits,
totalling US$187.2 million.  The first operation was a telecommunications loan
of US$7.0 million approved in 1968; the most recent, an agricultural credit
project of US$15.0 million (SDR 12.3) approved by the Board in May 1981.
Project implementation has been satisfactory even with the more complicated
rural development projects. The rapid turnover of expatriate staff and the
transitional problems of recruiting and training their replacements have led
to delays in project monitoring and auditing but physical implementation has
progressed approximately on schedule. As of September 30, 1981, 5 credits
and 5 loans were fully disbursed and the effective loans and credits to
Papua New Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$175.3 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as well
as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       In more recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture
with strong support in education and transport. A variety of administrative
mechanisms has been utilized in supporting these sectors and some have been
more effective than others in the rapidly evolving post-independence
administrative environment. Although the emphasis on agriculture, education
and transport remains appropriate, there is a continuous need to integrate
the actual implementation experience into the design of new projects.
23.       Past Bank Group operations have averaged about one per year which
has been increased to two operations per year as from FY81.  This level of
activity will allow continuous emphasis on agriculture, education and
training and further support of transport infrastructure development. The



Transport Sector Review, dated January 29, 1980 (Report No. 2819a-PNG) and
the Agricultural Services Review, dated January 30, 1981 (Report No. 3161-PNG)
have provided direction for operations in these areas. The project proposed
herein, together with a small technical assistance project for petroleum
exploration, will comprise the lending program for this fiscal year. For
FY83, the current plan is to present an agriculture support services project
and a rural transport project. Project design and implementation will
continue to be constrained by the unavailability of technical staff, both
local and expatriate, and the decentralization of power to provincial
government levels will probably exacerbate the problem. These risks will be
mitigated, to the extent possible, by explicit institution building elements
such as those contained in the proposed project, but the process is of
necessity long term, and will require a sustained effort.
24.       The Bank Group has previously assisted rural development in PNG
through the Southern Highlands Rural Development Project (Cr. 841-PNG, $20
million, 1973), which is principally supporting agricultural and infrastruc-
tural development in the Southern Highlands, the province just to the south
of Enga. Physical implementation has generally gone well, proceeding on
schedule and within cost estimates. The main problem has been the recruitment
of adequately qualified expatriate staff due to procedural problems and the
low salaries offered. To date, about 40% of the 21 staff appointments are
still vacant. Implementation has also been adversely affected by a lack of
consensus between the national and provincial governments on certain project
matters, mainly because the project was designed and initiated prior to
establishment of the provincial administration. The latter problem is not
expected under the proposed project since both the national and provincial
governments have consistently been involved in project preparation.
PART III - AREA DEVELOPMENT OF ENGA PROVINCE
Background
25.       Because of concern about uneven economic and social development in
PNG, the Government has identified nine (out of a national total of nineteen)
less developed provinces (LDPs), including Enga, which rank below the
national average with respect to development indicators measuring health,
education, land availability, and transport. Incomes of most people residing
in the LDPs are less than 30% of the per capita national average. Raising
the standard of living of people in the LDPs and developing a more even
distribution of public and private services and economic opportunities have
become increasingly important features of the Government's development
plans. Initially, only partially integrated rural development projects were
chosen to serve as vehicles for focusing on LDPs.  The first projects of
this kind are the ongoing IDA-financed Southern Highlands Rural Development



- 9 -
Project and the East Sepik Project financed by the Asian Development Bank.
However, in view of experience gained under these projects and reflecting
the growing political pressures from the provincial governments, national
government policy has now moved toward promotion of fully integrated projects
based on full-scale development plans which focus on the totality of economic
and social development issues facing the LDPs. The development plan for
Enga was completed in 1980 and plans for the remaining provinces are in
various stages of preparation.
Project Area
26.       Enga is a remote province, with an area of about 12,200 sq km or
about 2.4% of the country. Only about 30% of the land is usable, the rest
being mountainous terrain unsuitable for human occupancy or agricultural use.
The province is drained by three river systems, and 50-60% of the total area
is covered by rain forest. Most of the province's population of about 165,000
are concentrated in valleys, and live between altitudes of 1,400-2,600 m to
avoid the severe frosts of higher altitudes and the risk of malaria at lower
levels. Enga contains some of the most densely populated subsistence farming
areas in PNG, the average population density of the province being 14 per sq
kim, nearly three times the national average. It is also one of the country's
most rural provinces, with 96% of the population living in rural areas.
Annual population growth is estimated at 2%, but is expected to increase in
the future given the high proportion of young people, low external migration,
and improvements in health services.
27.       Until the 1930s, when the Government's administrative control was
first introduced, the Engans lived in stone-age isolation; no sustained
contact with the outside world was possible until the Highlands Highway was
built in the 1960s. In 1978, Enga was given the status of a province, and
its provincial government was fully established in 1980. Public
administration in the province is the responsibility of the Department of
Enga, which is headed by a Secretary and organized along functional lines.
A Secretary's Staff Committee (SSC), comprising all divisional heads,
coordinates operations.
28.       Enga still remains a clan-based subsistence-oriented society with
very rudimentary standards of hygiene, clothing and shelter. The local cul-
ture is characterized by rituals and ceremonies at which pigs are used as
the primary article of exchange or payment. Men spend about 40% of their
time on these rituals, and the remainder on agriculture. Women, who devote
about 80% of their time to agriculture, are therefore the main source of
labor. There is little political integration beyond the clan, each of which
includes about 350 people living within the clan boundaries. Distribution
of land within the clan area is highly complex, but each family has access
to land for food gardens, and these rights are inherited. Land distribution
among the clans is skewed; 45% of the population owns 23% of the usable
land, 38% owns 34%, and 17% owns 43%. This, together with the high
population density and the clans reluctance to let outsiders use their
land, has resulted in a problem of land shortage in many areas.



- 10 -
29.       A number of factors characteristic of the local culture and social
organization constrain economic development in the province. Prominent among
these are:  (a) the expansionary nature of the highland clans and their
tendency toward tribal fighting; (b) the highly fragmented and often mutually
antagonistic nature of the society which is not conducive to the provision of
development services; (c) the complex system of land tenure and acquisition;
(d) the strong links within clans involving obligations and contributions
which deter from the viable operation of rural enterprises; and (e) the
extent to which women can increase their time spent on agricultural
activities, and thus increase production.
30.        Owing to some of these factors and the limited development efforts
to date, the provincial economy is characerized by the lack of a developed
monetary sector and very limited commercial activities. The total estimated
value of the provincial output in 1980 was $26.2 million, of which 95% was
derived from agriculture. About 90% of agricultural income is the imputed
value of subsistence output, and the balance represents the value of income
from cash crops. While per capita subsistence output is generally similar to
that for other parts of the country, incomes from cash crops are only about
10% of the national average. The annual per capita income of Enga in 1980 was
about $150, or about 20% of the national average. Because of the low level of
economic activity and limited tax base, the province contributes only about 1%
to total government expenditures in the province, with the remainder funded by
the national government; most other provinces also rely heavily on the
national government for finances.
31.        Only about 7% of the 400,000 ha of usable land is cropped.  Most of
this is under sweet potato, which is the mainstay of the subsistence diet,
although an estimated 60% of the production is consumed by pigs. In
land-short areas, affecting about 50% of the provincial population, the
existing subsistence system with its poor cultural practices is expected to
become totally inadequate in the next two to three decades because of the
rapidly growing human and pig populations and the introduction of commercial
crops. These areas also suffer from a lack of reforestation which not only
reduces the availability of fuelwood but also pushes forest margins to
ecologically undesirable levels. Cash crops (coffee, pyrethrum and various
vegetables) have only recently been introduced into the province, but are
already being produced by about 60% of all farmers. However, income from
these crops has been very low due to poor yields and quality caused by an
inadequate supply of good seedlings, poor cultivation and harvesting
practices, and lack of extension services.  In 1979, the total output of
cash crops amounted to about 1,500 tons of coffee, 200 tons of pyrethrum and
2,000 tons of vegetables.
32.        Pig rearing is by far the major livestock activity in the province.
However, the Government is currently trying to introduce sheep, goats and
poultry in order to improve the Engan diet, make better use of available
fallow areas and grasslands, and promote an additional cash earning oppor-
tunity for small producers. Good progress is being achieved in this regard,
partly due to the use of female extension workers to establish direct contact



- 11 -
with the Engan women responsible for most livestock activities. In 1980 the
pig herd was estimated at 220,000, cattle at 2,300, and sheep at 550.
33.       Enga is one of the least developed provinces in terms of public
services, and the ratio of government expenditures and staff to population is
among the lowest in the country. A large number of health facilities are
either in dilapidated condition or require expansion, while the physician-to-
population ratio is about 50% of the national average. Malnutrition is
particularly severe, and approximately 35% of all children under 5 years of
age are malnourished. The educational system has expanded rapidly in recent
years, but Enga still ranks last among all the provinces in terms of
proportion of the population served.
34.       One of the most important constraints to improving agriculture and
the availability of government services in the province is the lack of an ade-
quate transportation network. The road network of Enga totals about 850 km,
none of which are sealed. Substantial sections of the roads traverse unstable
terrain, and are subject to landslides and washaways during rains. About 80%
of the roads are in very poor condition, and are often impassable. Owing to
the heavy rainfall and difficult terrain, maintenance costs are high.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by the Enga Provincial Government,
with assistance from the National Government. It was appraised in March/April
1981. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled, Enga Provincial Development Project
(No. 3602-PNG, dated March 11, 1982) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington from December 8 to December 11 with a PNG delegation led by
Eliakim ToBolton, First Assistant Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives
36.       The objective of the project is to strengthen the human, agricul-
tural, institutional and physical resource base which would allow directly-
productive and market-oriented activities to be carried out under subsequent
development programs. Project components would focus on alleviating key
developmental constraints, the most fundamental being the need for appropriate
agricultural packages and for essential economic and social infrastructure.
The project would also help to strengthen government services in the province
and to evolve a replicable model for development of other provinces.
Project Description
37.       The proposed project represents a four-year time-slice of the
Government's development plan for Enga. It would constitute the first phase
of an eight-year development plan to improve communications, promote
inter-clan integration, increase subsistence production and cash incomes,



- 12 -
and improve living conditions in this long-neglected province. All project
activities have been included in the National Public Expenditures Plan
(1982-85), which is the principal planning vehicle for PNG, incorporating
all development and incremental government expenditures. A brief description
of the project's seven components follows.
38.       Agricultural Development.  With a view to increasing the production
of subsistence and cash crops, the project would provide for a four-man
technical team to introduce improved agricultural technologies and practices
to farmers in the province; qualified national staff would be recruited as
counterparts to the team. Particular emphasis would be placed on promoting
growth in the subsistence system through the use of known technology to
increase crop yields, the provision to farmers of seeds and planting materials
of high yielding varieties, and development of improved technology and land-
use practices under area-specific conditions. The increased production of
cash crops would result from introducing suitable crop husbandry practices,
training extension staff in coffee, cardamom and pyrethrum production, iden-
tifying suitable sites for expansion of these crops, and establishing a
marketing system for cardamom production as well as four pilot nurseries
to provide quality planting material for coffee and cardamom. Total plantings
during the four-year project period are expected to be about 400 ha of coffee
and 40 ha of cardamom. Promotion of cashcrops would be carefully undertaken,
particularly in land-short areas to ensure that land is not diverted from
food crops. By June 1985, the technical team would prepare a full report
containing recommendations on policies and future activities in support of
subsistence agriculture and cash cropping (Section 3.01(b) of the Loan and
Development Credit Agreements). In addition, the demonstration/training
centers at Taluma and Mukuramanda would be expanded, and a vegetable
marketing depot would be constructed at Wabag.
39.       Development of the province's forestry resources, mainly to increase
the supply of fuelwood, would be supported by: the establishment of nurseries
to produce seedlings for distribution to villagers; the establishment of
several small demonstration wood lots to be used for training villagers in
forestry management techniques; and the planting of 215 ha of forestry planta-
tion to help in the creation of an accessible forest reserve, utilization of
idle land, and training of forestry field staff.
40.       The project would support the Government's efforts to encourage
livestock activities by establishing a 140 ha breeding center for sheep,
goats and buffalo and supporting an existing small breeding center for ducks
and chickens.
41.       Infrastructure Development.  The following priority infrastructure
works would be carried out under the project: (a) the upgrading of six high
priority roads (totalling 92 km) and the introduction of a simple traffic
counting system for the province. To ensure the adequacy of the provincial
road system, which is crucial to the proposed development effort, adequate
maintenance would be provided on provincial and local roads i.e. K 3,500/km
for provincial roads and K 550/km for local roads, such amounts being revised



- 13 -
periodically in light of inflation and condition and usage of individual roads
(Section 3.07(b) of the Loan and Development Credit Agreements); (b) in view
of the favorable land form and rainfall in the province, development of
hydropower for electricity would be supported under the project through the
installation of three microhydro generators to provide power to social
service and government facilities; (c) to accommodate the additional staff
needed to implement the provincial development plan, an office block, staff
quarters and provincial stores would be constructed at Wabag, office blocks
constructed at two district centers, and 100 sites would be developed for
buildings to be constructed under the plan; and (d) to enable the provincial
branch of the Department of Works and Supply (DWS) to carry out project
infrastructure works, it would be strengthened with five additional
engineering/architectural foremen, of which two have already been appointed;
the project would provide the houses and vehicles for these staff.
42.       Health Services.  The availability of health services in Enga is
poor even in comparison to the rest of the country. The project would
therefore include the rehabilitation and expansion of 4 health centers, the
establishment of 2 new health subcenters, equipment for 11 health centers
and 7 subcenters, the upgrading of about 45 aid posts and staff housing, and
the upgrading and expansion of the provincial hospital's facilities for
staff training. Short-term technical assistance would also be engaged to
prepare a plan for development of a referral hospital and to review and
improve the existing health monitoring and reporting system.
43.       Education.  The project would improve the efficiency and coverage of
the formal education system and expand vocational education by providing:
(a) an inducement allowance for about 60 primary school teachers, to compen-
sate for the poor living and working conditions in remote areas; (b) a board-
ing facility for 150 students at a newly established high school to increase
access to secondary education in outlying areas; (c) a pilot program for
vernacular instruction at the pre-primary school level for the purpose of
increasing primary school enrollment and decreasing the number of dropouts;
and (d) the expansion of vocational training at two centers run by nongovern-
mental organizations - one training women in agriculture, nutrition and
health, and the other training carpenters.
44.       Community Development.  At present, the clan is the dominant social
and political organization in Enga and, as a result, the population has little
awareness of its provincial or national identity. Although a number of pro-
grams exist for women, youth, community education, etc., which have a poten-
tial to increase social interaction, they now lack cohesion, direction, staff
and facilities. The project would therefore strenghten the Community and
Family Services Section to enhance these activities and make them into an
effective vehicle for the promotion of national integration. Community
development centers would also be built in three districts for use by
extension divisions and for the purpose of stimulating social interaction
that cuts across local loyalties.



- 14 -
45.       Commercial Assistance and Training.  The provincial government
attaches high priority to expansion of the monetary sector, particularly
private business, in order to increase cash incomes, employment opportunities
and tax revenues. The project would support this goal by providing for the
recruitment of (a) two additional business development officers to assist
local entrepreneurs and provide extension for business development; and (b) a
building trades technical officer who would assist local building contractors
in tendering and bidding procedures, implementing projects, and liaising with
provincial DWS. Given the increase in building construction arising from this
and other projects, there is considerable potential for developing a viable
small-scale building contracting industry. The project would also establish a
trade training program (carpentry and plumbing/welding) for provincial DWS to
help meet the acute shortage of trained tradesmen in the province.
46.       Institutional Development.  To increase the efficiency of the
provincial government, a Division of Organization and Staff Development would
be established within the Department of Enga to review and improve all
matters relating to public administration including extension services,
develop an effective staff development and training program for the province,
and provide management consultancy services to other divisions. The Division
would initially consist of three expatriate experts and their counterparts.
By December 1982, the Division would establish and organize a training
program for the Department and, by June 1985, it would prepare a final
evaluation of work initiated and completed and recommendations on policies
and future activities aimed at improving provincial public administration
(Section 3.01(b) of the Loan and Development Credit Agreements).
47.       The capacity of the provincial government to carry out project
activities would also be enhanced by the following: (a) strengthening of the
provincial Finance and Management Services Division by the provision of
staff (including an expatriate provincial accountant and a local counter-
part), office equipment and staff housing; (b) the provision of a Project
Coordinator, who would coordinate project planning and implementation, carry
out project monitoring and reporting, and liaise with the national govern-
ment; (c) establishment of a development monitoring unit, consisting of a
socioeconomic evaluator (rural sociologist/anthropologist) and a counter-
part, to ensure that project activities are appropriate to the social and
cultural environment, and which would continuously provide feedback to
project management on the response of the population to project activities;
(d) upgrading of the existing media center and expansion of its staff to
?rovide advisory support in communications techniques to all provincial
extension services; and (e) provision of a studies and training fund,
totalling $525,000, to cover a baseline survey, monitoring and evaluation
study, short-term consultancies, relevant overseas and domestic training of
counterpart staff, preparation of a follow-on project, and other ad hoc
studies deemed necessary for project implementation. The Bank would be
consulted prior to utilization of this fund (Section 3.01(b) of the Loan and
Development Credit Agreements).



- 15 -
Project Costs and Financing
48.       The total project cost is estimated at about $16.0 million,
including a foreign exchange component of $8.0 million (50%) and taxes and
duties representing about $0.5 million. Physical contingencies are equiva-
lent to 5% of base costs and include 15% on roads, 7% on houses and 10% on
other civil works. Expected price increases are equivalent to 21% of the
base cost plus physical contingencies and have been calculated as follows:
9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, and 7.5% in 1983-85. The proposed Bank loan of
$6.0 million and IDA Credit of $2.0 million would finance 52% of total
project costs (net of taxes), equivalent to the full foreign exchange cost
of the project. The central government would provide the remaining $8.0
million. To help assure the prompt start of the project, various activities
commenced prior to the project period, including the recruitment of key
project staff and the construction of houses and procurement of vehicles for
such staff. For this purpose and to cover project expenses prior to
loan/credit signing, retroactive financing of up to $800,000 equivalent is
proposed to help cover eligible expenditures after September 30, 1981
(Schedule I, paragraph 3 of the Loan and Development Credit Agreements).
Procurement
49.       In view of Enga's remote location and the relatively small size and
scattered nature of project activities, international competitive bidding
would not be feasible or appropriate for works and goods to be procured under
the proposed project. Construction of all civil works ($8.5 million),
including roads, would be carried out following local competitive bidding
procedures, which were found to be satisfactory at appraisal,or by DWS under
force account if suitable contractors are not timely available.  It is the
policy of DWS to use subcontractors for plant and small civil works wherever
possible. Vehicles ($0.3 million) and equipment ($0.7 million), the latter
being miscellaneous equipment and furniture, would be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures which are also satisfactory; equipment,
costing less than $5,000 would be procured through three bid methods.
Procurement documents for contracts over $400,000 would be submitted to the
Bank prior to tendering and award.
Disbursement
50.       Loan/credit funds for the proposed project would be disbursed at the
rate of 67% of expenditures for civil works, expatriate staff salaries,
vehicles, equipment and studies and training fund. Statements of expenditure,
certified by the provincial accountant and the Project Coordinator, would be
used for civil works carried out by force account and by contract whose value
is less than $30,000, equipment, and studies and training fund. Expatriate
staff salaries, vehicles and civil works contracts valued at more than
$30,000 would be subject to normal documentation. Detailed documentation
supporting statement of expenditures would be retained by the Project
Coordinator's office and made available to Bank Group supervision missions.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.



- 16 -
Organization and Management
51.       The Department of Enga would be the executing agency for project
implementation. The organizational, management and implementation arrange-
ments are integrated with, and complementary to existing provincial programs,
and are designed to strengthen the provincial administrative structure. The
proposed project activities are generally an expansion and strengthening of
ongoing works and are expected to increase the normal provincial workload by
only 15-20%. In view of the experience of the implementing agencies in
handling the types of work proposed and the provisions made under the project
for staff development, expert assistance and coordination of works,
implementation is expected to proceed satisfactorily.
52.       Overall coordination and management of project implementation would
rest with the Secretary's Staff Committee (SSC) for Enga, which would include
the Project Coordinator and the Socio-Economic Evaluator during the project
period. A Headquarters Project Coordinating Committee (HQPCC) comprising the
heads of central government departments involved in activities supporting
project implementation would serve as the facilitating mechanism at the
national level; a Headquarters Project Coodinator (HQPC) in the Office of
Project Coordination (Department of Finance) would serve as secretary to
this committee. An HQPC would also be designated in the National Planning
Office. Both the HQPCs would be the main contact point for provincial
implementing agencies in national matters related to the project.
53.       Over the four-year project period, 52 additional staff (including
national counterparts) would be recruited, comprising 29 professionals,
19 technicians and 4 clerical staff; of these, 36 staff would occupy permanent
positions which would continue after project completion. Due to the country's
shortage of nationals with the required training and experience, 14 of the
professional and 10 of the technical staff would be expatriates.  Counter-
parts to the expatriates would be recruited and trained on-the-job. To avoid
delays in project start-up, all project staff positions have been authorized
by the Public Services Commission and recruitment initiated for all staff
needed in the first year of the project. Further, the Project Coordinator,
Provincial Accountant and two (of the five) additional DWS staff have been
appointed. Key professional staff and consultants retained under the project
would have qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Loan and Development
Credit Agreements). Project implementation would require a total of 750
man-months of expatriate assistance at a total cost of $2.6 million. The
average man-month cost (including salary, leave fares and gratuity) is
expected to be $3,400.
Project Implementation
54.        The project would be implemented over a period of four years, from
January 1982 to December 1985, coinciding with the period of the 1982-85 NPEP.
Schedules for project implementation and key activities have been prepared;
the latter schedule includes, inter alia, the following: (a) key staff and
their appointment dates; (b) technical reports to be submitted to the Bank
and their completion dates; and (c) prior actions needed before certain



- 17 -
project activities can be undertaken. In determining these schedules,
particular attention has been given to recruitment and staffing delays,
implementing capacity of provincial agencies, and construction times. These
schedules were agreed at negotiations and assurances obtained that the
project shall be carried out in accordance with these two schedules, and
that the Bank shall be consulted when these are revised during the course of
the project, in light of implementation experience and changed circumstances
(Section 3.01(b) of the Loan and Development Credit Agreements).
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
55.       Monitoring of project physical and financial progress would be
essentially the same as for other government projects, although government
capability in this regard would be strengthened. Quarterly physical/financial
reviews would be undertaken at the provincial level by the PC which would
be attended by the HQPCs. Every six months, the National Planning Office
would undertake a detailed physical/financial field review, with support
from other national departments, and, based on the findings of this review,
would prepare a brief report to the SSC, which highlights any problem areas
and actions to be taken (Section 3.04(c) of the Loan and Development Credit
Agreements). These field reviews by the national government would augment
the provincial government's implementation capacity and improve the national
government's supervision capabilities, thus enabling the Bank to eventually
maintain its own supervision effort at a level lower than that normally
required for a multisector project. Based on the quarterly physical/financial
reports and those of the central government's review team, the Project
Coordinator would prepare a semi-annual progress report for submission to
the Bank, by September 15 and March 15 of each year of project execution
(Section 3.04(c) of the Loan and Development Credit Agreements). The
National Planning Office would be responsible for evaluating the overall
success of the project. For this purpose it would design and implement, in
conjunction with appropriate provincial divisions, a data gathering and
evaluation system by December 1982, and undertake a baseline survey on the
agricultural sector in Enga by December 1983. Within six months of project
completion, the PC, with the assistance from the HQPC's would also prepare a
project completion report of such scope and detail as the Bank may request
(Section 3.04(d) of the Loan and Development Credit Agreements).
Accounts and Audits
56.       DWS would keep accounts of project expenditures for civil works and
vehicles, the Department of Finance for staff salaries, and the provincial
finance division for all other operational costs. The provincial accountant
would assemble details of project expenditures from these sources for the
quarterly financial report which will serve as a basis for the national
government-s quarterly financial review and for claiming reimbursements
under the loan/credit. Project accounts would be annually audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the audited accounts
would be submitted to the Bank not later than nine months after the end of



- 18 -
the fiscal year and would contain a separate opinion on the compliance of
expenditures with the purposes of the project, accuracy of the statements of
expenditure, and the procedures and controls used in preparing the accounts
(Sections 4.02(c) of the Loan Agreement and 4.01(c) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Benefits and Justifications
57.       The project would benefit, directly or indirectly, the entire
population of the province. The benefits and justification of the proposed
project should be viewed in the context of a long-term program, comprising a
series of interdependent projects aimed at accelerating social change and
and economic growth in a very poor, tribal society. Without the program,
the Engans would continue to live in an isolated, rudimentary subsistence
setting, with a large number of them progressively facing food shortages and
increasingly engaging in inter-clan fights. The project would therefore
begin to address the province's most pressing needs for food and
communications, while also initiating a no less valuable effort to develop
human and physical resources. Although the project has diverse components,
it has an organic integrity, given the intertwined nature of the economic,
institutional and social issues. For example, the health of the provincial
population would benefit not only from the project component to improve a
wide range of health care facilities, but would also benefit from the
agricultural component which would increase production of nutritionally
higher-value foods (e.g., vegetables, sheep, poultry). Other project
components would in various ways support the general goal of developing
human capabilities.  The education component would increase the enrollment
rate in formal education as well as providing vocational skills to adults,
particularly women, who are not widely addressed by the formal educational
system but have a potential to act as agents for change in the clan society.
The small but important social development component would accelerate the
process of nation-building by promoting interclan cohesion. The institutional
development component would strengthen the capabilities and staffing of the
provincial government, and the commercial assistance component would
accelerate development of local entrepreneurs and ultimately the monetary
sector.
58.       Assumptions.  Being a time-slice operation, the project's quantified
benefits are inseparable from the impact of the long-term program, and
therefore have not been separately estimated. However, an attempt has been
made to calculate the likely increase in agricultural production resulting
from a 30-year investment program for agricultural development and road
improvement. Three clan farm models have been used to illustrate the impact
of such a program. Clan type A (about 45% of the population) mainly inhabits
densely populated, lower altitude areas producing coffee; land shortage is
common. Clan type B (22% of the population) lives in higher altitude areas
producing pyrethrum and vegetables; land is adequate for expansion but access
is poor. Clan type C (33% of the population) is generally in inaccessible
lower altitude areas with substantial land for expansion but producing no cash
crops. The models cover the entire farming system, including subsistence
gardening, cash crops, livestock and forestry.



- 19 -
59.       The estimates of incremental production resulting from the program
are based on conservative but reasonable assumptions for key technical para-
meters - yields, cropped area and farmer participation - which would govern
the achievement of goals. Yield increases are assumed to be 15% for sweet
potato and 40-45% for vegetables and cash crops, and are expected to result
from better varieties and practices, but without use of fertilizers or
pesticides. Based on future market prospects, the area under vegetables and
commercial crops for each clan farm model is expected to increase by 6 ha
(66% of present acreage) for clan A, 6 ha (100% of present acreage) for clan
B, and 25 ha for clan C which is not engaged in cash crops at present. The
cropped area assumed under sweet potato, home garden, and fuelwood is such
that present levels of per capita production of these commodities would be
maintained. Reflecting the difficulty of access and inducing change in the
particular tribal setting, it is assumed that 95% of the clans would be
reached in 30 years, and full development for any one clan would require
8 years after initial contact by extension workers. Although projections made
on the basis of these assumptions are only indicative, they nevertheless
suggest the expected magnitude of development.
60.       Agricultural Production and Marketing.  Resulting from the long-term
program, incremental production at full development (year 30) is expected to
be 50,000 tons of sweet potatoes, 32,000 tons of home garden produce and vege-
tables, 100,000 cu m of fuelwood, 3,500 tons of parchment coffee, 300 tons of
pyrethrum and 50 tons of cardamom. The incremental production of sweet
potatoes, fuelwood and a large part of the vegetables would be consumed at the
farm. Surplus vegetables should be easily marketable in the main urban
centers in the country, particularly through the marketing depot to be
constructed under the project. No problems are foreseen in the marketing of
cash crops given the small quantities involved. Farmers would sell their
crops to licensed private buyers who in turn would sell to export companies.
61.       Rate of Return.  An illustrative rate of return has been estimated
for the 30-year investment package comprising agricultural and road compo-
nents. Since the two are interdependent, they have been evaluated together.
The main assumptions are as follows: (a) Costs: These include total
agricultural and road costs over a 30-year period. Agricultural costs
include those under the project, a similar size investment in the following
four years (assuming a follow-on project), and recurrent costs over the next
22 years; the recurrent costs are increased by 3% p.a. to reflect expansion
of the extension network. Road costs include capital and maintenance costs
for project roads and for another 500 km of roads assumed to be improved over
the next 20 years; on this assumption the entire provincial road network would
be improved by year 24; (b) Benefits: Only agricultural benefits are taken
into account since traffic volumes are likely to be low and no significant
quantifiable traffic-related benefits are expected; (c) Shadow Wage Rate:
This is estimated to be about K 1/day (40% of minimum rural wage) based on the
estimated value of clan output and time spent on agricultural activities; and
(d) Prices: Farm-gate prices for export crops are based on appropriately
adjusted world market prices, while current rural market prices are used for



- 20 -
other agricultural commodities. Based on these assumptions the economic rate
of return for the package is estimated to be about 17%. Even with a 3-1/2
year lag in benefits, a 63% increase in costs or a 40% decrease in incremental
benefits, the rate of return would still be an acceptable 10%.
Risks
62.       There are three main areas of risk associated with this project:
recruitment difficulties, the effective coordination and management of the
project, and the cultural appropriateness of the various project activities.
Recruiting problems involve initial recruiting procedures and retention of
staff.  For initial recruitment, certain steps have already been taken
(para. 53). These should enable smooth recruitment of subsequent staff,
both local and expatriate. However, retention of staff may cause problems
because of Enga-s isolation, lack of amenities, and inter-clan violence.
For expatriates these factors tend to be less important because the time of
service is relatively short, the pay is adequate, the job challenging,
and the culture quite interesting. For local staff recruitment, it is
likely that some Engans working outside the province can be recruited, thus
avoiding the problems of being an outsider. Much depends on the ability of
the government to keep inter-clan violence under control and make steady
progress with project implementation. A recently established pay incentive
system for work in less developed provinces, the possibility of getting
responsible positions more quickly than elsewhere in the country, and the
social infrastructure to be built under the project should alleviate local
recruitment problems.
63.       The coordination and management risk arises from the comprehensive-
ness of the project and the as yet untested performance of the recently
created provincial administrative machinery. While the project is modest
in terms of the amount of funds committed and the physical volumes of work,
there are numerous components to monitor. Unlike the Southern Highlands
Project in which a semiautonomous implementation group was set up in the
province directed from Port Moresby because provincial governments were in
the process of being formed, there is now a provincial administration and a
provincial plan that has local inputs and support. Thus overall responsi-
bility for implementation is to be at the provincial level with coordination
taking place through the Provincial SSC.  The two key expatriate positions
of Project Coordinator and Project Accountant have been created to assist
the SSC in management and coordination. At the national level the
Headquarters Project Coordinators would deal with problems that cannot be
handled in the province, mostly recruitment issues. These arrangements
should reduce coordination risks to a manageable level.
64.       The risk of introducing culturally inappropriate practices into a
traditional society that has only recently come in contact with the modern
world is somewhat unavoidable. However, the involvement of local political
leaders and technocrats in developing the provincial plan and the use of a
cultural anthropologist in appraising the project, should mitigate this
risk. Further, the establishment of the Development Monitoring Unit



- 21 -
to monitor implementation, be sensitive to the cultural implications of
change, and provide feedback for the SSC will help reduce the risk of
introducing culturally inappropriate practices, and ensure that changes can
be introduced during implementation that will enhance the impact of the
development effort.
Fiscal Impact
65.       Given the nature of the project and the poverty of the provincial
population, there is no cost recovery from the beneficiaries; the national
government would bear the full costs of the project. The modest scale of the
project makes it well within the means of the government. The project repre-
sents a conscious effort by the government to increase the transfer of devel-
opment funds to Enga, where government expenditures are among the lowest in
the country. During the project period, the average yearly expenditure of
the national government would be about K 2.1 million (1981 prices) or less
than 1% of its budget for 1981. Even with this transfer, total per capita
expenditure in Enga would be K 69 (up from the present K 56), which would
still be lower than the present countrywide average of K 81. After project
completion, the incremental recurrent cost of the project activities would
amount to about K 0.5 million or 12% of the provincial government s present
recurrent costs, and would be borne by the national government in view of
the province's limited ability to generate revenues. While revenues
resulting from the project would be negligible in the short run, the
long-term program should lead to an expansion of the monetary sector and the
tax base in the province, thus providing additional revenues to both the
national and provincial governments.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements between the
Independent State of Papua New Guinea and the Bank and the Association
respectively, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
67.       Special conditions of this project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association respectively.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Marc 18, 1982



- 23 -                                           ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND A (THOUSAND) SQ. KM.)PAPUA NEW GUINEA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEN GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ- !_                                                            - MOST RECENT  STIMATE)
TOTAL            461.7                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       4.7              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
*
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 180.0       360.0     660.0                 1136.1                 1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAtIS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     51.0       146.0     299.0                1150.6                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1932.0      2394.0   2939.0  *
URBAN POPULATIOUN (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 2.7         9.8      17.0                  40.8                    64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 200W (MILLIONS)                       4.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        4.2         5.2       6.4                 373.1                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    508.4       544.1     617.6                2382.8                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.5        42.0      42.0                  39.8                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         56.6        55.0      54.8                  56.7                    55.3
BS YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.9         3.0       3.2                    3.5                    4.0
PuPULAIIoN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.6         2.2       2.3L                  2.3                     2.4
URBAN                             15.3        15.2       8.7                   3.8                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.0         41.3      37.2                   29.7                   31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.8         17.9      15.4                    7.5                    8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               .,         2.9       2.6                    1.9                    2.3
FAKILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       3.0                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX UF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.0       100.0     106.0                 123.7                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   76.0        83.0      85.0                 112.6                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          40.0        46.0      46.0                  62.5                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0        20.0      20.0                   19.7                   34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.5        20.9      16.3                    4.8                    7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BEIRTH (YEARS)   40.6        46.6      50.5                  64.0                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0       106.0        ..                   50.2                   70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAT1ON)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      20.0                  45.9                    65.7
URBAN                               ..          ..      30.0                  68.0                    79.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      19.0                   34.4                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        14.0      18.0                  53.4                    59.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                   71.0                   75.7
RURAL                               ..         5.0       5.0                   42.4                   30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         14390.0/d   11630.0   14040.0                4428.7                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2450. Dj    2370.0    1934.0                 2229.7                 1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            170.0/d     150.0/e   214.9                 588.5                   471.2
URBAN                               ..          ..     101.1                 579.6                   558.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     270.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIOUNS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..                   36.7
HoUSING
AVERAGE SIZE UF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.1          ..       5.0
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVS.RACE NUMBER oF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              0.7          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOIAL                             80.0          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 24 -                                             ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVENAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 32.0         52.0       60.0                    99.8                      101.7
MALE                  59.0          64.0      70.0                   100.6                     103.0
FEMALE                 7.0         39.0       49.0                    98.8                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    1.0         8.0       13.0                    53.5                      35.3
MALE                    2.0         11.0      18.0                    58.4                      34.9
FEMALE                 0.5          4.0        8.0                    48.6                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  16.0            19.0      26.0                    21.1                       30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             35.0          30.0      30.0                    34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                            18.0         23.0      23.0                    31.7                       15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          29.4         32.1       32.1                    86.5                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIDN                           2.0           7.3        6.2                   12.7                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..       44.5                   174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..         ..                    50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..           ..        8.9                  106.8                       62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             1.0         ..                    4.3                        3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        1058.4       1244.9    1464.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    41.4         41.3       41.0                    37.4                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.0          86.0      82.4                    50.2                       35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.3          5.8        7.5                    21.9                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  54.8         52.0       49.8                   40.2                       31.8
MALE                                   61.2         58.5       56.7                    49.8                      49.0
FEMALE                                47.7          44.9      42.5                    31.1                       14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8          0.9        0.9                     1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      400.0                   248.6
RURAL                                 ..            ..     275.0                   193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                   249.8                    513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..                   234.3                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UREAN                                 ..            ..       10.0                   21.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       75.0                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Indigenous population growth rate is 2.8X;  /d 1964;  /e 1966.
*  The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population                                                ma
estimates to be shown in the 1981 World Bank Atlas ayrie'9$780.0 (at 1978-80 prices)
and 3,154.0 thousands.



- 25 -                                                                          ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
IEOINIITIONS OIF SOCIAL N IOCifOth
teotr  At hab  Ia bt's  te  nannt ns sanne  gaetaiy  jolgd al  nna sabotnatlos  tadneItble. a  snold  lanbs _an  hat bI_saInna  t _tet
asal-ad- a's d-sotobe  -od-a  ot nsa iod. d-aat  Stads, and  hbate--i-a   --ean In    ., ditfatena-  bet.een                         i-nt~e
fietatnaineganapsta  li  ahasn       aottyg..                                      I ao..a..sabftinaananatrasd(--fa-ah.a-y g-ooabaebailaattiamoat ontsop
ofhb  aabf... eat   .   .   ooanay  anny  fa.. 'Caota-tada  did Eapntt-    oa  abe    Mddlel6 Onim   t,ha aftln  an  Middle EastIs ons:                  enlh  o
so "o- Inaa    afbIinief I  tb  oforana  groap data  h.e averges ar  .pnaisio  delgbtd aaaaia means Ion asbidiao   nds_                            noayaa
LOOMIOt  fa-ob.andsq  kitd I-fa'                                                                            , tadj  .f.nao   and     naa.h      b'  n  nnl-I  0 
foaf'Inasotsa   oenso'.inlnd   assoinndetas                            abs.adteIdii, dedba_io--paaoaod                       fe   fbapaa         -aa
Aitaaitaad-   stanta o.tgoaolansldaa  atdonontnityo   nanansoly    d'nllhiea1ablnaodFai .ne                ....tas.dn.nf....d..    snb. ladn.
tatatot .Fasnoa , anks td kanln gndes.n.an.a                  -faUa;  Of  dat.-            abilil--ao -antaa   ~- ,isaasaeanbibaa    annni   tfa
ho a  itaa on  obyia in.  Fsablabeet   radn    aoaa  nnsa
1S   E  Sfli  f1   -I?ct  noa  saaassnantaane    nbt,na-ds -nn  ansnan  otd                                     ed   atnai.boaa . aId   aItt.
INaPadbEP-isa.aonetiotI abd                ...niOa.als ...         -Obss.   od                         ndi  eda_al  _ennso  nteceniyt.f.               bOy.....          Ioay
1021, and iNfO dsEa.                                                                       an dloadntisan                            -ffe  ndaa   an)am    flnI-nied~oo
b,   .Ihd  '-!d  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~aafnndtodalsaeono  ttiolanlaies  oantm
_tdh EnEtFIlOF0CFE      aaa   ossaino  nrsaiinnh(nllniFt a  arisei--                                                       ioaldis  onad    Misfrn  IFa- tg-ta    aFiis
ftom basilas di-adad by ale naba   l beds.
POPELITIOn AND1 VlTAL nSTOOSlCb
Foasi Fata~~~an~~~~Stat  laboasnodaf  - ~As of lady 1, ib6I, 1012, and 1970          nOUSING
dat.-                                                                                           Anetrs  SIe o  Onsbl     esn  ncbasbiHtta                           na    n   aa 
a   _n_oat _a. lObS  10ff, anddf  dat.                                                         tba bo...aa1d tof-      titnldaFSS
F -ralstlon Fan fan lions              pp1  ........  .                  .db inea                       -anle   of aetonsle   no-b oa, aelsa,:.and.tarol -..n. estanom-
antl onaaaoby sgn an   e   ndaa.nsoslad .                      fataI ilI i1  as                 d-llinta,  -eponn I.Isl OJinsa  _tlad  n _aPer,:.e   sant               ttesao
lnI,- sod Ia-la lifaa-p-a-tiysabllieltsa   1~ 1.5 yams..  Thirpata"                             Co...a-io-Ild-11antstblh           nanniion    antasntett
lt-ot-lta.ss...       ln.. d.. nla...  In                 -ioaob-n.andala,l d-llsogant-petioely.
faS   nah   Is abet assIped on  o  lhas  noe_nbiavai-t  it   -.tblity                       EOhCATldt
and f-aliano  a--dsftnoeao  ait'salidos-dtatlcst-a  MaI-s
Slaaniat  onla:o-innatrSnhaoafsaoaha,    so   nat   in                              Fei-yf,-aoo-   oyf~.ynand fe-al  -   .os   no-e_, sale  Id feMale _
abbithsaaaqaaoleaah.at,nddnobogenaiteea-arolstorllgaaebp_                                                   srnt_ _saenstts fPolona_
ban   osata    bsasabta   olhla   Matadhr nafa nelit  anytnaosnol-                                                         1  hraoias pnsi ina as-hleeoadni
abetyisenea  lntlt aiananeyadsnlntat,abna...ses....tnasl ba'adaaaadfadifetnt a_M_                                                   oofy.a.trdaoaia.ld
- atedo l  b-sa  of aha  -na-nad oa            InI-ota  at the  oaa IonL.                        si-asM -     anltoa  bel-e or ab-n  abs ofi-ma1 ictni ase.
inbeaaiilattenst    ldolnaiaafltaae_oyiaifanodofnoi-atf   ilndtyoy-npanaaabnapanidn
alshis ba-a-anhnd.                                                                             asal   fi  oa?yasaaglnnasFn  oenfna   t   oeal
Ooaalabionletsito                                                            aenla~~~~~~~-1ded.
Hts.h.tld-yaa   a.osia p       an---  n               (1ioeata  ---aenatmff               hoaitfo lanIaan    f.....sda-o                       V--oaal..aIoaad
1960ana  la. 19di no  1971 darn.                                                            ialidets-hnaa..  lodaasn....a.. it .a.le       . yiga-on hblo  nytt--   da d
--yh lu-aaoafaa allsd-C"sto-dasab-oaf-ngoia-l..aaIa-d                                         a_lyaaod___asen             I  .-sand-t   nsiato
Foyaltias   ss Otaintaas IManana  -Chblda-  Of-il yeat, n-kina-ase  11$-                    0nisty o-d  -.a.ndaey label  d,itdad by.. aba-  of --h-at  oathsi
bi yea.s.  sodatttd   16l ya-tood on-tia .'.c.n.t..a -   tid-n..t.....-                              nonent    -in    sl.
erpopa1ota... for 1950-6l, 1960-fi. cad 10110-10.
fspsiealotfaomab Eaba (ponatan  artao-Anssal snootinanas-h -ll  of vab-t pos      CtStt'T
Ilaa..ts tot 1905-60, 19a0-70, and 1910-790P.-.. Fas c  Can  (ftan5nd  oa...a   ) - P ...g I'll,                                                                   oslis
beode  h_tbaaalotnaohsa-dl - Annoa.lila-bills. -o            h.....aJand isd-yca                  ...msara        - laahanoinhl ye..n.eo.n-ode-naans.  eoe 
F,,laaIt..n lObS16, lO7l, nsf 1070 des.-                                                          sf1 jaso   _hnnIa_
Caade Oeabtae  oa  ihoased) -   -non  deaths Pat aboacds of sid-y-at                              nadi. eale'  frtbondtlaciO-All inlet of ...eIet.  tot- ead-
FoF~alai-n  19lOIS.9700, sod 1070 dead.                                                           baosaaetavt--ra   Fabian  pee  hbasd  ..             y eiand  e_a lda 
all lay aass, asealy f aae-eae ansaget endiog so 1960, loll, and 19701.5   .cos    -alaot  aboasbd ilnanso.
of biatb-aoaa   ate   ta   naoso   iinifml  yddtnitg....... aoerl, bu                                              fan abossd asanisei-, t-iadeas.             nne.t   ttat
Fes lsFanae-s            __tanaa                                                                 I.atidman__naansaI_nae  _anotand _nytan    hennagisaasi-onfflTV a  i
asst o  abld-asaog  ge  ll-l oea   .  ... 1  na  leb-lyto  d           .ae .obnanlI  nlt o     m   bnadaalti(-tosIeatdtot
FOOl A011 bTOI.TI0                                                                                     no t  "daily'' If It appeasa   an   onbssasas
sodas of Foo.d Feodonio          bts    _1t-71_11001  -  nda- if  -a    ataaoo C-pesI n_-                    ba  Ale,    an  na    aieo- e            ttd o ha,nalno
atdnoi       llfo  noeInItIIes   tt-d-.ai- a-i.de-  sed and feed and                           alk-  sold dantog aba yean,  ,itntdlt5  a-issnsaladeloeoai
ised irsf ga  abiobat  ed7Ibl  nod aininor a   (e..  afasan
atesa  cnidel.    gge5nap-doanon of a-h a-d-tt  a  based o                             A     OC
naaionai anneage arodoca pelna seIftIbad  ioi-oc. 10ff, aaod 1910data         Tota l taint ~      (l t ..a..badnds  - Eno-oi-a1y snais .M...a.. Ob_-adttg
yetnsatn  aday i  oinaas  nceenaof  etatna_af -foeaadflana..  stee                              .f ..esad...enplorad boo.. asafoda9 bha,n,a
_n_aytaoslnof ne  rod  oaplaif                . avilable  nonta   -an  nlla                      ..on ..l .. aylnion   '.1 of s   _ oss.leintia   soar..      snonls  t
yet day.  Asealalle  soyllias O 'tiedosasin  yandoona_ .  csa   aannassl    Ol.~ 1075 asI 1070 dia-.
-osateae   nfo   nnmig d ilasss-indane-hnaao..d   -d.,re                                 AFaant  lao l-lean   foab-               atfttg,trsty   bnlo   a
aetna bate a...mad by  AOd basedonarIsisnlsesfnana   ni                                          ihn    sptea a.          ft naal Isbat fite   loll, lO9l sod 1019 dsta
and  _ea  laabh    o    f  ooain.an   noiai tFe_nest d Inthso- aan                                       2-loaa-ay   -aa  and,.   ens asyoatg  o   on           anfoe   55
..o ehold fave; fOal-at. 1970, an  f9I7 dn'97lI  ad 1070 dIaa.
net      ot food aso day.  See  -nali of food as defan-d ba hs.E-ataiy  Ie    a                                       tda  ttti,       t   o          Iessl  isba inrad
qoatanasts  tar am    aaortlaststahll,fd by LS01   -ioode Ion mtaa                     anaagsa  toa,sl   n   ta_                   aoasro   lissoston 
allo= -sn      nIb    itcnfaoI lPanatin  padaysad'ifgnsso   --ice -d                            19b0, 1970,av.dl1979dsa-   shamana  Sn-d  alt'sotialo ia
"sI"a yoselshnibab               - gcnsh-ldbThia    onan.fessno                                  etaonns-tsaant    fho-astnadlI..gai-na-ad.  A
ras-d fain  -taal  and Fal-e  is gta-  yea day, lO6l-,i, 1070 ann 1071 ddcon                icroisII        1la
Child las-  I-i  Srality  -ea(teel a.....f    A .t..si dann   a   haaii                            t'oli   rfao,ltn     oLn    a   v   lai-O  ,'a  1. naoa.a
atlas Ultdao t lonlstae,laf  10 70 and 000lad                                                      ibnohf
shAdEd                                                                    Odvatff~~~~~~~~~~j-     foalty  tObUP
1970                1979Oafonnosni-nnldsaofnostnanoeno                                    slnaaadhso1l.aai-y      --oeaas       . innt d-vlfft  annaas-absad-a'l
banas a  lat  Asot (eonnt  f aiilaiO~navo Id atba   no  total-   - sit5,                  ooi_   nai ys_ qaae    Ietalas           (USeta$ non-ind  eqalt-b-o  Is vat
bar o        hye --d (toal  sban   n   lad-   lbhsstbeanest   ae                                    fodba
setatf    aooseaae    atnt_tn   nnarse    o   notnnnd                                              saae   aalcFata   onaLnI11   e  nna)-am    e   ns 
rttanto  ..t.P.a ...l.o ..; .. rhardo-.- baaeaooatooilbaeoaedso-eon                                                   fpolahatah- i--batta1d- oalfal-b           'a- mla
i--Rdr .o'a.tn' i        'koco;l            --nnaonoIaaao-ah--aiha
faa '-oaf %SnfonOaa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, h--f.aoo   - 0>Ol- naa1't  nah l
-obaoi-       afwoi.nto..ao.n..seatllnrtadalsao
pe,nb-5e  ot   al                       ..nanv  iPlafo..E. n Ino - doysl, say   h,-oa-lodoP.                                             (b. 
tataolleaoo  no  dipoa..soo  vsoisoo   snnaena,   b-_hacntanoa                                                          000n0ad  oaibtahvat
nod  non-osto  ooaer-bovcysaoa   oaaasaafpi   nrvotnsda'afnns.tlnnn    ni.an.ynn
no1hyyt  e                                 _-saa     lnlnn   dodd0    .nha .o  ..n..neona
n"I avla         b,ro  --b--a  en-ofoosv-              ovea
Fyonfanoaoen  inosux hanso- Fopadaano oavoel by s'ebat nO-rantaAo1
nofaovdienafnnadaaa-tontbs



- 26 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979 lb                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
FY68-73      FY73-1978       1979
US$                  (%, FY69)   (%, FY73)    (%, 1977)
Million        %       --------(Constant prices) --------
GNP at Market Prices       2,230.8      100.0         7.8/c        0.2/c        3.3/c
Gross Domestic
Investment                 515.4       23.1        10.7          2.2         11.3
Gross National Saving        572.3       25.7
Current Account Balance       78.1        3.5
Exports of Goods, NFS    1,057.8         47.4        24.6          1.5             0
Imports of Goods, NFS    1,048.9         47.0        10.9          3.7          6.0
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added /d           Employment          V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million      % _000             %         US$    % of National
Average
Agriculture            771.1        34.9       996    87.6        774         39.9
Industry              678.8         30.8        27     2.4    25,141       1,295.3
Services              752.7         34.3       114    10.0      6,642        342.2
Total/Average       2,207.1        100.0    1,137   100.0       1,941        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                    % of GDP
1980 /e               1979          FY76-1978
Current Domestic Receipts                 347.8                17.5            19.7
Current Expenditures                      475.3                32.7            32.2
Current Deficit                           127.5                15.2            12.4
Capital Expenditures                      123.2                 5.1             4.5
External Assistance (net)                 175.5                10.7            13.5
/a  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1 - June 30
to January 1 - December 31.  Here, FY__ refers to the July 1 - June 30
period, whereas 197  refers to the calendar year.
/b  Preliminary.  National accounts and balance of payments figures differ,
since the first is on a flow and the second on a payments basis.
/c  GDP.
/d  At factor cost.
7e  Preliminary.
not applicable
August 1981



AflNEX 3.
- 27                                   Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW CUINEA
March    March
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1977     1978      1979      1950       1980      1983.
(MilTIi K outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi ?bney                         428.5    449.0    571.7    553.1        611.6    545.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector, net                3.3     13.5      35.0      15.0       74.0     55.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net             136.7    193.8    227.5    301.9        246.5    308.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GD?               29.5      31.4     35.3
Consumer Price Index (1977   100)              100.0    105.8    111.9    125.4        121.0    134.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Conaumer Price Index                           4.4      5.8       5.8      12.1       11.8     11.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                22.4      41.8      17.4      32.7      24.7      24.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-1980)
1978    1979    1980 Ia                                 US$
(US$ MiTiTon)                                       Million    Z
Exports of Goods, NFS          764.8 1,058.6 1,038.9   Coffee                           168.2    3.8.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          878.7 1,028.5 1,288.4   Cocoa                             80.2     9.0
Resource Gap (Deficit - -)  -113.9    30.1  -249.5   Copra & Copra Products              68.3      7.7
Timber & Timber Products       52.1      5.8
Factor Services (net)          -64.6  -3.09.8  -175.7   Copper Concentrates             226.7    25.4
Transfers (net)                184.6   157.9   3.62.0   Cold                            212.1    23.8
Balance on Current Account        6.1    78.1  -263.3   All Other Commodities            85.2      9.5
Private Capital (net)          -28.3    15.7    27.9   Total                            892.7   100.0
Public MLT Loans (net)           -7.8    37.5    68.9
Errors and Omissions lb         27.5   -21.7    85.7   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Increase in Reserves            -2.5   109.6   -80.7                                            US$
Million
Imports of fuel and related                              Public Debt, md. Guaranteed           505.6
materials                     65.3   76.4   108.7       Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed         505.6
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 /c
z
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Public Debt, mci. Guaranteed            7.2
1977                            1980                     Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Us$1.00 - K 0.79                US$1.00 - IC 0.67        Total Outstanding & Dtsbursed           7.2
K 1.00 = US$1.26                K 1.00 = US$1.50
1978-1979                       1981, Jan.-May           IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF 12/31/80)
US$1.00 = K 0.71                US$1.00 = K 0.67                                           115$ Million
K 1.00   US$1.41                K 1.00   US$1.50                                           IBRO   IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed          54.5  55.0
Undibursed                      25.3.  27.7
Outstanding md. Undtabursed  79.6  82.7
Ia Preliminary.
7 Includiag capital n.e.i.
7T Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
not available
August 3.981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(as of September 30, 1981)
Loan or
Credit                                                     Amounts (US$ millions)
Number       Year      Borrower      Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Five credits and five loans fully disbursed               55.5    25.2         -
1333-PNG    1976         PNG         Agriculture          12.0                 6.0
661-PNG    1976         PNG         Education                      4.0        0.3
677-PNG    1977         PNG         Roads                         19.0        1.7
1551-PNG    1978         PNG         Ports II              3.5                 0.7
841-PNG    1978         PNG         Rural Development             20.0       11.0
1856-PNG    1980         PNG         Third Highways       17.0                17.0
1030-PNG    1980         PNG         Third Highways                13.0        6.1
1934-PNG    1981         PNG         Primary Education   6.0                   6.0
1087-PNG    1981         PNG         Primary Education             12.0/b    12.0
Total                                        94.0    93.2        60.8
of which has been repaid                     10.1      0.2
Total now outstanding                        83.9    93.0
Amount sold                 8.1
Repaid                      6.5               1.6
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                                    82.3    93.0
Total undisbursed                            29.7    31.1        60.8
/a Total does not include Credit 1149-PNG, the Second Agricultural Credit
Project, Credit of SDR 12.3 million was signed on December 7, 1981.
/b Credit amount is SDR 9.4 million. Its equivalent in US$12.0 is expressed
here.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. PROJECTS IN EXECIJTION /1
Loan No. 1333 Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project;
US$12.0 Million Loan of November 19, 1976; Effective
Date: January 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is designed to establish q,600 ha of oil palms with
processing facilities around Popondetta. It includes 4,000 ha nucleus
estate and a factory to serve both estate and smallholder production,
developed as a joint venture between the Government and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation. The Bank-financed portion of the project includes:
5,600 ha of oil palm plantings, subdivided into 1,400 smallholder plots;
long-term credit facilities for smallholders to be provided through the
PNGDB; extension and visiting inspection services; and technical assistance
for project management; social infrastructure and improvement of the road
network.
Project roads and most buildings have been completed. While most of
the 1,400 participating smallholders are on site, it is expected that to
complete the planting of 5,600 ha of smallholder oil palms will take an
additional year. The nucleus estate area of 4,000 ha has been completed one
year ahead of schedule. The mill is operating satisfactorily with the pre-
sent extraction rate of 20-22%. Disbursements are behind appraisal estimates
due in part to a slowdown in smallholders  subloan applications and to
delayed claims for the transport company component.
Credit No. 661 Education Project: USS4.0 Million Credit of November 19,
1976; Effective Date: January 3, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1Q82.
The project is designed to:  (a) meet manpower requirements in
agriculture, induistry, health and the teaching service; and (b) support
education and planning studies in PNG. Physical project implementation
has been completed.  Educational outcomes are satisfactory.  Project costs
are within appraisal estimates. Disbursements lag behind schedule because of
delayed submission of withdrawal applications, but the project is expected to
be fully disbursed by March 31, 1982.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Credit No. 677  Second Highlands Road Improvement Project; US$)9.0
Million Credit of January 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project will improve and pave 68 km of the Highlands Highway.
It further provides detailed engineering and feasibility studies of the same
highway; rural development studies of the Enga and Chimbu Provinces, and
technical assistance to domestic road construction contractors. All detailed
engineering and feasibility studies have been completed. Civil works are
proceeding satisfactorily and are about 95% complete. The rural development
studies and the technical assistance component have also been completed.
Credit No. 841 Rural Development Project I; US$20.0 Million Credit of
November 7, 1978; Effective Date: March 7, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Within the Southern Highlands Province, the project would provide
for research into subsistence crops, nutrition and health of the people,
expand coffee, tea, silk and cardamom production, build roads, schools and
health subcenters; support adult education and agricultural extension
services; and contribute to the general development of the province's people
and economy.
Except for the tea roads, civil works are nearing completion. The
development of the council coffee and tea blocks is satisfactory but
establishment of coffee clan blocks and smallholdings shows little progress.
Recruitment of qualified staff (both national and expatriate) remains a major
problem and is seen to affect adversely several project components, notably
nurse training. Disbursement are only slightly behind schedule.
Loan No. 1856 and   Third Highway Project; US$13.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 1030      and US$17.0 Million Loan of May 27, 1980;
Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The project will assist the Government in completing its program
to improve and pave the Highlands Highway from the main port at Lae through
the Highlands region up to Togoba. It will, further, help strengthen
central and provincial governments by assistance in formulating, through the
help of consultants, a strategy for maintenance of national, provincial and
village roads. The project also provides additional assistance for transport
planning and project identification, preparation and implementation at the



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
provincial level. The civil works have been successfully tendered and con-
struction is underway. Civil works are now about 35% complete with the work
scheduled to be completed in August 1983. Due to the contractor-s slow
beginning, completion is likely to be delayed about six months. The consul-
tants' work on rural transport studies is about 75% complete. Terms of
reference for the improvement of road maintenance procedures and practices
have been drafted by Government and are under review by the Bank.
Loan No. 1934 and   Primary Education; US$6.0 Million Loan
Credit No. 1087      and US$12.0 Million Credit of May 11, 1981;
Effective Date: August 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
The project is designed to assist the primary education system
through (a) improving education management; (b) raising quality through
improved textbooks, materials and teacher training; and (c) increasing
access by assisting the provinces to expand and improve existing schools
and to establish new schools.
The project is in the start-up phase. The first phase of con-
struction has started and specialists are under recruitment.
Credit 1149   Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$15.0 Million
Credit of May 21, 1981;  Effective Date:  Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project would finance over a period of three years a share of
PNGDB-s planned agricultural lending and also support the expansion of
related agricultural services. The project has two principal components:
(a) field development of about 8,000 ha of coffee, cocoa, oil palms and
rubber, and establishment of piggery and poultry enterprises through
subloans made by PNGDB; and (b) expansion of hybrid coconut planting
materials supplies, and of other support services to agriculture, such as
crop development teams, consultants and studies. Credit was signed on
December 7, 1981.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ENGA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time required to prepare project: 2 years
(b) Project prepared by: Enga Provincial Government
(c) First presentation to the Bank Group: September 1979
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: March 1981
(e) Completion of Negotiations: December 11, 1981
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
(a) Creation of all project positions by Public Service Commission
and initiation of recruitment for all first year positions were
conditions of negotiations (para. 53).
(b) Appointment of at least two foremen (out of five) in the
provincial DWS, project coordinator and the provincial accountant
were conditions of Board presentation (paras. 41 and 53).
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government gave assurances on the following:
(a) adequate maintenance would be provided for provincial road
network (para. 41);
(b) it would consult with the Bank Group on proposed uses of the
technical assistance fund (para. 47);
(c) key professional staff and consultants retained under the project
would have qualifications, experience, terms of reference and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank Groups
(para. 53);
(d) it would implement the project in accordance with the implementation
and key activities schedules (para. 54).



IBRD 15770
rOd0Sy                         rdtr                                                                                           tot%v                                                                    JUNE 1981~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN   IB
0 > E~~~~~~~~~~~~ A S T S  i     K
<   /   -   0  t<0t  ,; : | M S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                                                                                      D  4  N^>
C)-   Ei- '' e                                                                                                                                                                                                    '''                                             N - 
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
L   ~                   -NENGA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
5n! 5-lt<-'-S o zi ffit ? .-!.?E.-iJ7-0:ot.&  % ' ElY 5 t - LANDu5E AGRICULTURE
.,   _WX   !   =   X   F  i  2  /ziX  A  =  t.;C: = S:i;.;,, 1 w '; $ t ! | c croP 5UPPtft StRlpitit!                                                                       2 Celr C08, uppot Seeite
s Lti j t > i;9 3 <, , . t 30 Fontstrv PiotatipmlNot Shownl~~~~~~~~Vegtabe Mrketng  ent
ts3loce  < 4 g/ ; '-} '; ' 5/ '0 \ - :' r / Lq" \] '§? ;n $W; Ws ;g5i!}i, m??i ';" @ Poul4tTolome HighAltiindeCCente
t   - .  X  ;  ;   :   :;                                                                                   -                                                                    ...................   ^  e          -.   u         :. ...... >~kyw-~  ighandsOrcid  oilero
< |  *  L I t Sta / l l The den nzOn5 ,t td trechtd ProWmcia BPundarles 2fiDU Meters or Abtw                                                                                                     8    Sppor to  gnitoture Ettnslo
< A / > < \  liekal   t    11           l%9@s-Xervv                                                        \                                                       \--InternationalBoundarles                               B        10      15       20      2SA       30 IOn   s°ForstryEotesionXorsniea
\   C P                  i         6°0t        6tBv tfilto/y or atv endt sement          ,/ K              3                                                                                                                          Foltry bredn COEnTERS
M    tPk-                                                 Menwm nd S awil
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL EDCTOPROJECT                                                                                                                                                          TS
-                 W    R8enrpop..   Trinn Pdcn-ntsr b-          S
~~                                                                                                                                                                               Frovmncral Roadt                       W    Mokotvtteende Fanmnr Treining Center~~~~~~~~~~~~,.1 ftV.W1,4 Mrkf~g  ..
yo,tRvrodt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C~~~~~~~~~..t   dI                                                                                                                                            -
V  "~~~ /           pe~~wyIowmn     oven.     eortenntonyonavyendonesment                                                                                                                                                                     KILOMETERSMERCAL PRJECT
or acveptsoce OyOOvh tovodvene
Odval See                                               dOn00                                                                                            44089~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- C.1  C,   -E1
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l IgP-(. h-



