Report No. 689a-IND
Indonesia                                                            FILE COPY
Appraisal of the National
Resource Survey and Mapping Project
January 15, 1976
East Asia Projects
Irrigation
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



CURBENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             -    Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 1.00             -    US$0.241
Rp 1 million        -    US$2,409.64
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (ki)      2       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) -    0.39 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKOSURTANAL   -    National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
BAPPENAS       -    National Development Planning Agency
CIDA           -    Canadian International Development Agency
JANTOP         -    Survey and Mapping Division of the Department
of Defense
GLOSSARY
Base-Map       -    A standard map prepared to a high standard of accuracy
based on precise geodetic control, utilized as a basic
reference for preparing maps for specialized purposes.
Charts         -    Maps portraying the specific information required for
aerial and maritime navigation.
Geodetic
Control       -    Establishment on the ground and precise determination of
position of a network of reference pointa, which are
plotted on aerial photographs during the map production
process.
Large-Scale    -    Used in the text to denote photography and maps of
1:50,000 scale and above (e.g. 1:40,000, 1:25,000, etc.).
Small-Scale    -    Used to denote scales below 1:50,000 (e.g. 1:100,000).
Planimetric
Maps          -    Maps portraying horizontal distances between any two
points precisely to scale.
Thematic Maps  -    Maps depicting specific categories of information
(e.g. land use, rainfall) for analytical or planning
purposes.
Topographic
Maps          -    Maps portraying elevation contours.
Remote Sensor
Imagery       -    Images derived from the reflectance of terrestrial
objects, obtained from high flying aircraft, the
Earth Resources and Technology Satellite, or the
recently launched LANDSAT II satellite.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................*..**..        ***0.*      i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................                1
II.   BACKGROUND ......................                                      2
The Role of Natural Resources in Indonesian Development               2
Current Status of Mapping and Resource Survey ..........              3
Survey and Mapping Requirements for Development .......               8
III.   THE PROJECT ...........................................                8
Project Components ....*...............................               9
Mapping and Resource Survey Operations .................    10
Implementation Schedule               ............ ....... ......   11
Cost Estimates              ...............................*.    11
Financing  9....o **  *     ..... ..............................    13
Procurement **.....*...............                     .........    13
Disbursement *************,*****,**********************    14
Accounts and Audit o..................................................  14
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..***.o.oo..oo.ooo .... ***...           14
Project Management   .090990 ***.....** *** ...    ...........    15
Manpower and Training  oo................oo        .......*o o......    16
Technical Assistance .. . .                ..............................    17
Liaison with User Agencies ............................              17
Dissemination of Information              . .........................  18
Future Operating Levels 0               .............6......0    18
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..o..oooo.. .oo*.............   19
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS  * ooo  ............... ooo...o         .... .o   20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Current Status of Mapping and Resource Survey Activities
2. Project Description
3.   Technical Assistance
4.   Training
5.   Cost Estimates
6. Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
7.   Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
8.   Implementation Schedule
9. BAKOSURTANAL Organization
MAP
General Map No. 11038



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project would be the first Bank Group project speci-
fically concerned with the establishment of a national resource survey and
mapping institution capable of providing the resource data required for
development planning. At present, information about Indonesia's resource
endowment is inadequate to meet the needs of national, regional and project
planning and air and sea navigation. Furthermore, the synthesis and evalua-
tion of available information is hindered by the lack of an accurate and
consistent series of base-maps covering the national territory. Only 13%
of the land area has been mapped at the 1:50,000 scale, and existing geodetic
and aerial photographic coverage is only slightly better. The project would
provide the facilities, equipment, materials, and technical assistance
required to complete the base-mapping of Indonesia and to initiate a system-
atic inventory of the nation's natural resource base.
ii.       The proposed project consists of several interrelated components
which may be grouped into two broad parts. Part I provides for the estab-
lishment of a national resource survey and mapping capability, and includes
the construction of facilities and the acquisition of equipment required foz
map production and resource evaluation; procurement of remote sensor imagery
and large-scale aerial photography to support detailed resource mapping and
evaluation, and navigational charting; and technical assistance and training
in project-related fields. In addition, Part I would include a program of
mapping and resource survey operations ;o be implemented by the National
Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping (BAKOSURTANAL) utilizing these
facilities and services, and a complementary program of technical services
to be executed by survey firms. The foreign exchange costs of Part I
would be financed by the Bank. Part II of the project provides for the
1:100,000 scale aerial photography, geodetic control, and aerial triangulation
required to complete the national base-mapping program. This part of the
project would be financed by the GOI, possibly with bilateral assistance.
iii.      The estimated total cost of the proposed project is about US$46
million. The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of Part I
of the project, estimated at US$13 million, and amounting to 50% of the cost
of Part I and 28% of total project costs- The GOI has assumed responsibility
for financing Part II of the project, with an estimated total cost of US$20
million, as well as the local costs of Part I, estimated at US$13 million.
iv.       The Part II components would be executed primarily by foreign
contractors. The major Part I components, including cor.struction (US$1.4
million), large-scale aerial photography (US$3.1 million), and equipment
(US$3.7 million) would be procured after international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Technical services worth US$2.2 million
would be procured through normal Government procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank. Technical assistance and training would cOst US$1.8 million.



- ii -
Contingencies on Part I components amount to US$9.3 million of which US$7.0
million are for expected price increases. Completion of all project com-
ponents iLs scheduled to take five years.
v.        The project would be implemented by the National Coordinating
Agency for Surveys and Mapping (BAKOSURTANAL), a non-departmental agency
under the jurisdiction of the Minister of State for Research. The Chairman
of BAKOSURTANAL would be the project manager, and would be responsible for
the overall administration of the project and coordination of the various
components. Deputy-Chairmen of BAKOSURTANAL would assume specific responsi-
bility for the implementation of base-mapping, charting, resource evaluation,
and public service operations.
vi.       The project would provide direct economic benefits by reducing
the costs of mapping and survey activities required for project preparation
and specialized survey purposes. These cost savings are estimated at US$3
million per annum for public projects alone at current levels of project
preparation and survey work, and would be expected to increase with the
aggregate volume of investment. The project would also substantially reduce
the time required for project preparation in the resource-based fields,
thereby accelerating the implementation of large sectoral investment programs.
Long-term benefits which are more difficult to quantify include anticipated
improvemenits in the effectiveness of economic and environmental planning
at all levels of Government made possible by a reliable natural resource
data base, and increased safety of aviation and navigation to be derived
from the production of up-to-date navigational charts and information.
vii.      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$13 million
for a term of 20 years including a grace period of six years. The borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Recognizing the need for an accelerated national program of
resource inventory and evaluation, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in 1973
requested Bank assistance in designing and implementing a project which
would provide the institutional and physical capability to meet this need.
Simultaneously, a request was made to the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) for assistance for a national forest resource evaluation proj-
ect.  Preliminary preparation work by both agencies indicated the need for
a base-mapping program of similar scale before either general resource
inventory or a forestry evaluation program could be carried out effectively.
At that point it was agreed to carry out further preparation work on a
parallel basis, with CIDA assuming responsibility for the small-scale aerial
photography, geodetic control work, and aerial triangulation required for
base-mapping, and the Bank for provision of facilities, equipment, technical
assistance, remote sensor imagery, and large-scale aerial photography required
to complete base-map production and to undertake systematic resource in-
ventory and evaluation.
1.02      Difficulties in reaching agreement on the formulation of the
proposed CIDA forestry studies have delayed negotiations of the entire
CIDA loan, including that portion (US$19 million equivalent) which was to
have financed the aerial and field survey operations which constitute
Part II of the proposed project. Initially it was anticipated that the
difficulties regarding the forestry studies could be resolved in a relatively
short period of time, and it was therefore decided to postpone the process-
ing of Part I of the project, which had been prepared with Bank assistance.
Subsequently, it became apparent that agreement over the forestry studies
would not be reached rapidly, and that further postponement by the Bank in the
initiation of Part I would seriously delay the overall Indonesian resource
survey and mapping effort, particularly because the construction, equipment
procurement, and institution-building components included in Part I require
a longer lead time than do the survey operations included in Part II.  A
second reason for proceeding with Part I at this time arises from the avail-
ability of a substantial volume of base-mapping materials already being
produced through joint Australian/Indonesian operations in Sumatera and Irian
Jaya. Between 1976 and 1978 the ongoing Australian bilateral assistance
program is expected to produce aerial photography and geodetic data covering
about 20% of the land area of the country, much of which would remain un-
processed in the absence of the proposed project. Proceeding with Part I at
this time will enable that backlog to be substantially reduced through contract
map production by survey firms, while still ensuring an initial workload
for the project agency (BAKOSURTANAL) in 1978, when its own facilities would
be completed, also under Part I of the project. The implementation of Part
II would commence in 1978 at the latest, thereby ensuring a continuing flow
of small-scale photography and geodetic data throughout the project life,
and the completion of base-mapping for most of Indonesia by the end of 1980.



- 2 -
The GOI has assumed full responsibility for the financing of Part II, with
Canadian assistance should the current negotiations prove successful, with
other bilateral assistance if feasible, or with its own funds.
1.03      This would be the first Bank Group project primarily concerned
with the establishment of a national resource evaluation and mapping capa-
bility, although survey and mapping components have been included in numerous
projects on an ad hoc basis. The major activity in this field in Indonesia
to date is the ongoing Sumatra Regional Study component of the Second High-
way Project (Credit 260-IND). This project would move beyond previous
efforts by building a permanent indigenous resource evaluation and mapping
agency, which would generate a substantial body of resource information
to be used in the economic planning process.
1.04      The project preparation reports were compiled by the GOI with
assistance from Bank missions in July 1973 and March 1974, consisting of
Messrs. W. Drewes, C. Bruce, M. Burney (Bank), H. Westbroek, B. Berry,
and C. Smith (Consultants), and a CIDA mission in June 1974 led by Mr. W.
Webb. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Indonesia in October/November 1974, comprising Messrs. J. Goldberg,
W. Drewes, N. Raphaeli (Bank), B.J. Anderson (CIDA), and J. Lizarraga Reyes
(Consultant). It includes a description of Part II of the project.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Indonesia is the world's largest and most populous archipelago,
consisting of 3,000 islands extending 5,100 km along the equator. Nearly
two-thirds of the population of over 130 million inhabit Java and two
neighboring small islands to the east, Madura and Bali, at densities which
rival the highest in the world. Other regions, including Irian Jaya on the
island of New Guinea, Kalimantan (Borneo), and several provinces of Sumatera
are sparsely populated, with important natural resource potentials presently
underutilized.
The Role of Natural Resources in Indonesian Development
2.02      Resource-based industries, particularly agriculture, forestry,
fisheries, and petroleum, gas and hard minerals extraction, play a vital
role in the Indonesian economy. Besides providing employment to the great
bulk of the population, these industries account for almost all of Indonesia's
exports and for over 60% of Gross Domestic Product and of Government revenues.
The revenues derived from the extraction, processing, and export of natural
resources have enabled the Government to implement a rapidly expanding in-
vestment program while maintaining living standards above bare subsistence
levels.
2.03     Mqost of the resource development efforts of both Government agencies
and foreign firms have been directed to the development of land and forest
resources and mineral deposits which were well-known and often in production
before WorLd War II. Much of this investment has had to be directed to the



- 3 -
rehabilitation and modernization of large elements of public infrastructure,
such as ports, irrigation systems, and highways, and of mining and commercial
agriculture establishments which had fallen into disrepair over the previous
decades. As the backlog of such investment in the traditional sectors and
the more developed areas has been reduced, and the attention of Government
planners has shifted to less-developed regions, serious deficiencies in the
availability of information on Indonesia's natural resources and physical
environment have become apparent.
Current Status of Mapping and Resource Survey
2.04      Deficiencies in resource data have manifested themselves both at
the national planning level and in the preparation and implementation of
projects, where the necessity to undertake basic resource survey and mapping
work on a piecemeal basis has resulted in additional costs, long delays in
project preparation and substantial changes in project design during imple-
mentation. Efforts to evaluate and map the topography, soils, hydrology,
forests, and other resources in proposed project areas have in turn revealed
that up-to-date base-maps, aerial photography, and geodetic control are
almost non-existent except for small areas of the country which are
historically the most developed. In general, information about Indonesia's
resource endowment is clearly inadequate to meet the needs of national,
regional and project planning.
2.05      Coordination of Mapping and Survey Activities.  The existing
situation in the mapping and resource survey fields is due in part to inade-
quate funding of geodetic and base-mapping work and specialized resource
survey and mapping activities, but it is also due to excessive fragmentation
of effort in these fields and a resultant low efficiency and inconsistency
of work. As the specialized agencies use widely varying map projections,
base-map scales, and categories and modes of presentation to present their
research findings, much of their output can neither be evaluated comparatively
nor integrated to serve as a firm basis for planning and design of agricul-
ture, transmigration, transportation, and other projects with strong
regional impact.
2.06      The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) is responsible for coordinating mapping, survey and aerial
photography operations within the GOI, although substantial increases in
staff, budget, and facilities are required for this responsibility to be
effectively exercised. In particular, the lack of an accurate and consistent
series of base-maps covering the national territory has deprived BAKOSURTANAL
of a valuable physical tool with which to standardize sectoral thematic
mapping and to coordinate the work of field investigations of resources
and environmental conditions.
2.07      BAKOSURTANAL has recently also been given the major responsibility
for resource inventory and evaluation within the GOI. This task, which
involves the compilation, preliminary economic evaluation, and presentation
of resource data in a form that will assist economiic planning and policy-
making, has been performed haphazardly in the past, never having been clearly



- 4 -
assigned to any specific agency. The assignment of this function to
BAKOSURTANAL provides a linkage between the full range of resource fieldwork
and analysis on the one hand and economic planning, coordinated by BAPPENAS,
on the other.
2.08      Base-Map Coverage and Production.  At present, geodetically-
controlled base-maps at the 1:50,000 scale required for thematic mapping
and evaluation of most natural resources are available for only 13% of the
land area of Indonesia. Most of these are topographic maps produced by the
Survey and Mapping Division (JANTOP) of the Department of Defense. This
inadequate coverage, which is proportionally among the lowest in the world,
raises the costs of survey work and biases survey activity, systematic
resource evaluation, and subsequent development investment towards regions
which were previously mapped and away from the potentially richest areas
of the outer islands.
2.09      The lack of base-map coverage and the slow pace of recent base-
map production is in part due to the total reliance on topographic maps as
the nation's base-map source. While detailed planning and thematic maps
of specific areas often require the addition of topographic contour lines,
requirements for a national base-map series could be met more efficiently
by uncontoured planimetric maps which can be produced rapidly and at a high
order of accuracy by the automatic orthophoto process. Such maps would
satisfactorily fulfill the fundamental base-map function of presenting the
geodetic data required for all subsequent mapping work. The absence of a
civilian, development-oriented mapping agency in part explains why the
production of planimetric orthophoto base-maps, which are of little military
use, has not been introduced in Indonesia.
2.10      The physical input to the map production process is aerial photo-
graphy, which must be keyed to a suitable level of geodetic control in order
to produce undistorted maps. Both the density of geodetic control points
and the scale of photography required for map production are related to the
scale of maps to be produced. The existing geodetic network covers only 20%
of the country at the density required for production of 1:50,000 scale
base-maps. In the field of aerial photography, only about 15% of the land
area has been covered at scales which permit mapping at 1:50,000, and most
of this work pertains to Java and the more developed parts of Sumatera. Only
four large blocks (in northern and southern Sumatera, eastern Java, and
Western Kalimantan) were flown within the last six years and hence provide
an up-to-date basis for map production and resource inventories; most of
the remaining photography at these scales predates World War II. Thus, any
major effort to expand base-map coverage of Indonesia would require substan-
tial investments in geodetic control and aerial photography as well as in
equipment and staff training.
2.11      Use of Remote Sensor Imagery.  The GOI has been affiliated with
the U.S. Government's Earth Resources and Technology Satellite program (ERTS) 1/
for the past two years. The primary responsibility for handling ERTS output
has, until recently, rested with the National Institute for Aeronautics and
1/   The first satellite in this program, launched in 1972, was originally
known as ERTS I. It has recently been renamed LANDSAT I, and the new
satellite, launched in 1975, is called LANDSAT II. This report retains
the ERTS nomenclature in order to avoid confusion.



-5-
Space (LAPAN). For a variety of reasons this agency has made little use
of ERTS materials for resource evaluation purposes to date, nor does it
have the facilities to reproduce and distribute these materials to research
institutes, specialized survey and mapping agencies, the Department of
Communications, or other organizations which could make use of ERTS imagery
for evaluation and survey purposes. The only agency in the GOI currently
utilizing ERTS imagery effectively as an input to resource evaluation is
BAKOSURTANAL. In its most ambitious effort in this field to date, the Bali
Remote Sensing Project, BAKOSURTANAL combined the use of ERTS imagery and
large-scale aerial photography interpretation with field surveys by teams
drawn from several GOI agencies to investigate the geology, hydrology, soils
and land use of that island, thereby introducing a large number of speciali-
zed researchers to the use of ERTS imagery in the resource fields. Recognizing
BAKOSURTANAL's expertise and interest in this field, the GOI has recently
assigned to the agency primary responsibility for the use of ERTS imagery
for resource investigation purposes. Fulfillment of this responsibility
would require a substantial investment in new imagery, tape analysis, and
imagery interpretation and reproduction equipment.
2.12      Specialized Resource Survey and Mapping Programs.  Remote sensor
imagery, large-scale aerial photography, base-maps, and the photography and
geodetic data used to produce base-maps are general tools to be used for a
wide range of specialized resource survey and mapping purposes. There are
numerous research and survey institutions in Indonesia whose capacicy to
use these basic materials far exceed their limited availability. Further-
more, the demand for basic mapping materials is increasing rapidly as many
of these agencies are improving their technical capabilities, often with
substantial technical assistance from abroad. Several agencies, notably those
working in the fields of soil survey, cadaster, geology, and marine sciences,
have already achieved high scientific standards but their output is limited
by budgetary constraints. Output has been further limited by the need to devote
a substantial part of the budgets of the specialized agencies to the pro-
duction of basic materials, such as localized base-maps, photography,
and geodetic control, which could be produced much more efficiently on a
centralized national basis. Where available resources do not permit this
approach, specialized resource surveys and mapping must be restricted to
the areas of the country for which maps are already available.
2.13      Forestry.  Forests cover about 60% of Indonesia's land area, and
the forest areas of greatest commercial interest generally coincide with the
areas for which accurate base-maps at scales usable for inventory work are
unavailable. Only about 10% of the nation's forest resource has been mapped
by the Directorate-General of Forestry, and no authoritative information
exists on the basis of which GOI planners could decide which forests should
be reserved to protect the environment, which should be exploited as sustained
yield production forests, and which should be converted to agriculture. This
problem is now particularly acute both because concessions may have already
seriously infringed on natural reservation forests 1/ and because the proposed
1/ There is currently no way of determining concession boundaries accurately
since the concession maps are not based on geodetically controlled base-
maps and typically overlap and contradict each other.



- 6 -
transmigration program involves a large amount of forested land. Further-
more, the Government badly needs the up-to-date data which can be provided
by ERTS imagery and aerial photography to monitor the extent of deforestation
due to commercial and subsistence logging operations.
2.14      Soil Survey.  The Soils Research Institute of the Department of
Agriculture, located in Bogor, is responsible for soil survey and mapping
throughout the country with the exception of Northern Sumatra which is
served by an institute specializing in estate crops located in Medan. The
Soils Research Institute is being assisted by a five-year US$1.5 million
FAO/UNDP project initiated in 1973. While this project along with several
related land and water resource projects will accelerate the evaluation and
mapping of Indonesia's land resources, the present rate of output in terms
of area covered is very slow, with soils surveys covering only 9% of the
land area Ito date. Soil survey work outside of Java is limited to those
areas being photographed by FAO where geodetically controlled base-maps
already are available.
2.15      Land Use Surveys.  Several agencies are involved in land use
surveys and mapping, with most of the work oriented to taxation purposes.
Broad land use mapping is done by the Directorate General of Agraria in
the Department of Internal Affairs. The reliability of the output of this
agency is limited by its reliance on field survey methods to the total
exclusion of use of aerial photography. Improved access to such photography
should lead to a modernization of its method of operation and improved
results in this important field. Mapping for land ownership taxation pur-
poses is primarily done by the Directorate General of Cadaster in the
Department of Internal Affairs, which produces maps of relatively good
quality at large scales of selected areas. This office utilizes photo-
grammetric methods and aerial photographs along with terrestrial surveys
in urban areas. The IPEDA 1/ office in the Department of Finance does similar
mapping, plotting agricultural holdings to assess taxes based on estimated
crop yields. These IPEDA taxes are distributed to the kabupatens (districts)
and kotamadyas (municipalities) and form the basis for local public finance
in Indonesia. The tax-oriented agencies currently must spend about 30% of
their budgets on base-map preparation, which restricts their tax-assessment
work and in turn limits the volume and equity of tax collection.
2.16      Transmigration Planning.  The Directorate General of Transmigration
in the Department of Transmigration and Cooperatives does some mapping
work in relation to its settlement projects, but until now has relied heavily
on JANTOP for base-mapping and on the Soils Research Institute for soil
survey and mapping. The lack of base-map materials, large-scale photography,
and comprelhensive resource inventories of proposed transmigration areas has
delayed the planning and execution of both individual settlement projects
and the overall transmigration program. The Second Five Year Plan sets a
target of 1,250,000 ha to be settled through organized transmigration.
Attainment of this goal largely depends on substantial improvement in aerial
photography and base-map coverage to identify those areas in the outer islands
1/   A tax based on the productivity of agricultural land.



- 7 -
suitable for settlement and to serve as a basis for subsequent project pre-
paration. Both the Bank and FAO are presently considering providing
technical assistance to improve the technical planning capability of this
agency.
2.17      Geological Surveys,  The Directorates of Mines and Geology in
the Department of Mining are responsible for the mapping of mineral deposits
and geology respectively. With the assistance of a team of advisers from
the U.S. Geological Survey, the Directorate of Geology has produced several
map series of quite high technical standard, but as in other fields the
rate of work has not kept pace with the country's needs. In particular, the
lack of geodetic control outside of Java has seriously restricted Government-
sponsored geologic survey and mapping in the outer islands.
2.18      Charting.  The situation in the field of nautical and aviation
charting is possibly more urgent than in any other specialized mapping
field in Indonesia today. Nautical charts are produced by the Naval Hydro-
graphic Service for the Directorate General of Sea Communication in the
Department of Communications. The backlogs in the field of hydrographic
survey, due to shortages of vessels, equipment, and trained staff, have led
to a situation of deteriorating safety of navigation, particularly because
of the constant changes in depths of river and coastal channels and of
sandbars at river mouths. For this reason, the Department of Communications
is vitally interested in obtaining base-maps based on up-to-date photography,
as well as unprocessed photography of coastal areas and river basins and
detailed geodetic data for the many coastal areas where triangulation points
have disappeared over the last three decades. The planning of shipping
operations could also be assisted by analysis of ERTS imagery, which can
indicate siltation rates and substantial depth changes in rivers, harbors,
and coastal areas in a fraction of the time required for hydrographic survey.
2.19      The situation in aeronautical charting is possibly even more
critical than in nautical charting. No aviation charts are currently being
produced in Indonesia, and aviators must rely on World Aeronautical Charts
of 1:1,000,000 and 1:500,000 scale.  The basic requirements are for aerodrome
obstruction charts at 1:10,000 scale for 40 domestic airfields, instrument
approach charts at 1:25,000 scale for Medan, Palembang, Jakarta, and Den-
pasar, and precision approach terrain charts for Jakarta and Denpasar.
2.20      Other Specialized Survey and Mapping Programs:  The lack of
basic mapping materials and data has handicapped Government planning in
several other fields, including the framing of policies regarding natural
resource exploitation (e.g., in the fisheries and water resource fields)
and the planning of infrastructure investment programs (e.g. highways,
telecommunications, ports and waterways).
2.21      Regional Resource Surveys.  Regional resource surveys have a
relatively short history in Indonesia, and most such surveys undertaken to
date have depended heavily on external financial and technical assistance.
In this regard mention may be made of regional studies of West Sumatera



supported by Germany, of Southern Sumatera supported jointly by the Bank as
part of the Second Highway Project (Credit 260-IND) and Germany, and of
Sulawesi and the eastern islands recently begun by Canadian-sponsored teams.
In addition, the ongoing program of land capability appraisal studies being
conducted by a FAO/UNDP team in conjunction with the Soils Research Institute
possesses many of the characteristics of a regional resource survey program.
BAKOSURTANAL has gained valuable experience in the organization and implemen-
tation of such surveys through the Bali Remote Sensing Project (para 2.11)
and sever;al smaller projects directed to ecological monitoring on Java. The
Governmenit's plans to accelerate the rate of transmigration would require a
substantially enlarged program of regional resource surveys in designated
transmigration areas.
Survey and Mapping Requirements for Development
2.22      It is thus clear that a substantial investment in aerial photography,
geodetic control, equipment, and facilities for the production of base-maps
and other mapping materials is required in order to accelerate and coordinate
the generation of information on Indonesia's natural resource base. In
addition, regional resource surveys should be complemented and assisted by
the interpretation of satellite imagery and large-scale aerial photography,
which wou:Ld require investment in equipment and facilities as well as in the
basic materials.
2.23      While requirements in the short-term are for specific tasks to be
performed and for certain materials to be produced, the long-term need is
for institutionalization of the process of base-mapping, resource survey, and
resource inventory and evaluation. Base-mapping is a continuous operation
which should respond to demands for updating, revision, and larger-scale
presentation as development proceeds, and thus demands a permanent institu-
tional commitment.  Although resource survey work is in general best per-
formed by specialized line agencies possessing the required technical expert-
ise, the synthesis, evaluation, and presentation of the detailed data
generated by these agencies in a form which will assist economic planning
and policy-making is a task best performed by a single agency. The GOI
desires tc use an accurate national series of base-maps to promote the
standardization and coordination of resource survey and mapping work by all
Government: agencies and private and international organizations working in
Indonesia, and has accordingly allocated the responsibility for both base-
mapping operations and resource inventory and evaluation to a single agency.
The proposed National Resource Survey and Mapping Project is designed to
strengthern and equip this agency to play its designated role.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The proposed project would provide the implementing agency,
BAKOSURTANAL, with the physical capability and technical assistance required
to undertake two major tasks which are prerequisites for the acceleration
and coordination of natural resource inventory and evaluation in Indonesia.



- 9 -
The first is the completion of an accurate series of geodetically-controlled
base maps for the entire land area of the country, a task which in turn
requires substantial geodetic field work and small-scale aerial photography.
The second is the initiation of a national resource inventory and evaluation
effort which would utilize the new base maps and small-scale photography,
earth satellite imagery covering large blocks of the country, and large-scale
aerial photography of specific areas, as well as conventional field survey
methods. A subsidiary program to improve aeronautical and navigational
charts required by the Department of Communications would also be included.
Project Components
3.02      The project consists of several interrelated components which may
be grouped into two broad parts. Part I, the foreign exchange costs of which
would be financed by the Bank, consists of items (a) through (g) in para 3.03,
and would establish a strong indigenous institutional capability in mapping
and resource survey. Part II, which would be financed by the GOI possibly
with bilateral assistance, consists of items (h) through (j), and would pro-
vide the cartographic materials and data necessary to complete the base-
mapping of Indonesia.
3.03      A detailed description of the project is presented in Annex 2.  the
main components of the project are as follows:
(a) Construction of headquarters for BAKOSURTANAL at
Cibinong, including suitable facilities for printing
and cartographic shops and photographic laboratories;
(b) Procurement of cartographic, printing, imagery inter-
pretation, and other equipment required for both map
production and reconnaissance resource evaluation;
(c) Procurement of remote sensor imagery, including earth
satellite output;
(d) Aerial photography at scales of 1:50,000 and above, of
approximately 300,000 km2 to support detailed mapping of
specific areas for project planning and charting purposes;
(e) Technical services to be executed by qualified survey firms,
including geodetic control, photo processing and repro-
duction, and contract map production for delimited areas;
(f) Engagement of individual experts to provide technical
assistance to BAKOSURTANAL in geodesy, aerial photography,
cartography, printing processes and resource evaluation;
(g) Training in the country and overseas of BAKOSURTANAL's
senior technical and professional staff, and training
in the country of staff technicians;



- 10 -
(h)  Aerial photography at a scale of 1:100,000 of approxi-
mately 950,000 km2;
(i)  Extension throughout Indonesia of the primary, secondary,
and tertiary geodetic control network to density required
for 1:50,000 scale mapping; and
(j) Aerial triangulation of a-L areas flown.
Mapping and Resource Survey Operations
3.04      Base-Map Production.  Planinetric base-maps at 1:50,000 scale, of
Java, Bali, the Lesser Sunda Islands, the Moluccas, Sulawesi, and the unmapped
portions of Kalimantan, would be produced by BA1KOSURTANAL utilizing equipment
and technical services provided under Part I of the project and 1:100,000
scale aerial photography and additional geodetic control data to be provided
under Part II. Maps covering Irian Jaya and the unmapped portions of Sumatera
at the same scale would be produced for BAKOSURTANAL by qualified survey
firms under Part I of the project, utilizing aerial. photography and geodetic
control provided with Australian assistance. The two sets of maps would be
fully compatible, and together would constitute a consistent series which
would serve as the basis for resource surveys, thematic mapping, and naviga-
tional charting throughout Indonesia. In addition, the equipment to be pro-
vided would enable BAKOSURTANAL to add topographic contours to the base-maps
of specific areas to be studied intensively.
3.05      Charting Operations.  BAKOSURTANAL would produce urgently required
aeronautical and maritime navigatioral charts, utilizing equipment and large-
scale aerial photographiy provided under the project. The charts would be
keyed to the new base-maps and to the geodetic data to be produced under the
project and by the joint Australian/Indonesian operations. Charting work
programs would follow the priorities established by the Department of
Communications. In addition, BAKOSURTANAL would provide satellite imagery
materials and analysis to the Department of Communications to assist in the
preparation of navigational guides and bulletins and to update existing charts.
3.06      Regional Resource Survey.  Although small-scale mapping photo-
graphy and satellite imagery will faCilitate resource and environmental
analysis at the reconnaissance level and help identify broad patterns of
potential development, field surveys would be required to generate the more
detailed data needed to identify project possibilities and to delineate
favorable project areasG Survey operations would be planned and directed by
BAKOSURTANAL, althoughi the field teams would be composed of staff drawn from
the line departments and universities as well as from BAKOSURTANAL.  The
work of the field surveys would be supported by large-scale aerial photo-
graphy provided under the project.
3.07      The surveys would cover natural geographical regions, primarily
in the outer islands, which on the basis of existing information, imagery



- 11 -
and photo interpretation, and field checking appear favorable for trans-
migration and land settlement, irrigation, agricultural development, mineral
extraction and lumbering, or transport infrastructure investment. Surveys
on Java would be primarily oriented to the assessment of deforestation,
erosion, flooding patterns, and other forms of ecological deterioration
and the determination of suitable resource conservation policies and
programs. BAKOSURTANAL has already produced a tentative five-year work
program of regional resource surveys based on the regional and sectoral
priorities enunciated in the Second Five-Year Plan. Surveys to be carried
out would be reviewed periodically in consultation with BAPPENAS.
Implementation Schedule
3.08      The project is scheduled for completion in five years, taking into
account normal weather conditions throughout the archipelago. The ongoing
Australian assistance program is currently completing photographic coverage
and geodetic control of most of Sumatera, following which operations will
begin in Irian Jaya, which should be completed in early 1979. The processing
of these materials into base-maps by Indonesian survey firms could begin in
mid-1976. The construction of the BAKOSURTANAL building would be completed
by September 1978, while most of the equipment would be installed by June 1978,
enabling BAKOSURTANAL to commence base-map and chart production on or before
that date. To ensure a continuing flow of cartographic materials, therefore,
small-scale aerial photography operations in Kalimantan, to be implemented
under Part II of the project would commence by about June 1978, followed by
operations in Sulawesi, Java, and the remaining islands. In order to conform
to this schedule, geodetic fieldwork in Kalimantan, financed under Part I
of the project, would begin in late 1976. Training programs and regional
resource surveys would begin in early 1976. Resource inventory and evaluation
activities would also commence during 1976, as photography and remote sensor
imagery become available. The proposed project schedule and critical steps
in project implementation are presented in Annex 8.
3.09      The successful implementation of the major mapping and resource
survey operations to be executed under the proposed project depends on the
timely provision of aerial photography. As substantial delays in obtaining
flight clearances and permits have occasionally been encountered by foreign
contractors performing aerial photography work on Government-supported projects,
assurances were obtained that (a) BAKOSURTANAL would be responsible for
assisting contractors in obtaining all clearances and permits required to
implement the project; and (b) GOI would ensure that such clearances and
permits are granted before aerial photography contracts are signed.
Cost Estimates
3.10      Total project costs are estimated at US$46 million equivalent
(Rp 19,000 million). The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$32.2
million or 70% of total project cost. Estimates are based on recent quota-
tions for similar equipment and remote sensor imagery, and on recent unit
cost contract rates for building construction and large-scale aerial photo-
graphy. Estimates for the geodetic control and small-scale aerial photo-
graphy components are based on work and flight plans and unit costs of



- 12 -
similar recent work in Indonesia, taking into account weather conditions
in the various regions. The estimates for this work include a rather high
foreign cost component, as they are based on the assumptions of bilateral
assistance and completion of work in the shortest feasible period of time.
BAKOSURTANAL's personnel and overhead costs for map and chart production
and desk studies of resource availability are included under Administration
and Overheads, while separate estimates for field work are included under
Regional Resource Surveys.  All cost estimates have been adjusted to January,
1976 levels. Physical contingencies of 15%, which are adequate, have been
allowed on all items except technical assistance, for which a considerable
reserve provision has been included in the base cost estimate. Expected price
increases due to inflation of 10% in 1976, 8% in 1977-79, and 7% in 1980 have
been included for the equipment component, including physical contingencies.
For all other items and physical contingencies, increases of 14% in the first
year, 12% in 1977-79, and 10% in 1980 have been allowed. Expected price
increases amount to 27% of total project costs.
3.11      A breakdown of project costs is given in Annex 5 and is summarized
below:
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
---Rupiah million--   ----US$ million-----
A) Part I Components:
Building and Facilities       380       300     680    0.9      0.7      1.6
Equipment and Materials       400    1,110   1,510    1.0       2.7      3.7
Remote Sensor Imagery          -        120     120      -      0.3      0.3
Large-Scale Aerial
Photography                560       710   1,270    1.4      1.7      3.1
Technical Services            460       450     910    1.1      1.1      2.2
Technical Assistance           40       380     420    0.1      0.9      1.0
Training                        70      260     330    0.2      0.6      0.8
RegionaL Resource Surveys    920        170   1,100    2.2      0.4      2.6
Adminis tration and
Overheads                   510        80     590    1.2      0.2      1.4
Base Cost Estimate          3,340    3,580   6,920    8.1       8.6    16.7
Physical Contingencies        490       480     970    1.2      1.1      2.3
Expected Price Increases   1,540    1,380   2.920    3.7        3.3      7.0
Sub-Total                 5,370    5,440  10,810   13.0    13.0    26.0
B) Part II Components:
Small-Scale Aerial
Photography                  70    2,960   3,030    0.2       7.1      7.3
Geodetic Control              100    1,660   1,760    0.2       4.0      4.2
Aerial Triangulation          -         120      120     -      0.3      0.3
Technical Assistance           30       130     160    0.1      0.3      0.4
Training                      -         210     210      -      0.5      0.5
Base Cost Estimate            200    5,080   5,280    0.5    12.2    12.7
Physical Contingencies         30       770     800    0.1      1.9      2.0
Expected Price Increases       90    2.110   2,200    0.2       5.1      5.3
Sub-Total                   320    7,960   8,280    0.8    19.2    20.0
Total Project Cost          5,690   13,400  19,090   13.8    32.2    46.0



- 13 -
Financing
3.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$13 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost, or 50% of the total cost of the Part I components
listed above. The local costs of the Part I components, US$13 milli'.n
equivalent, would be covered by GOI annual budget appropriations. To assure
that adequate funding is available during the start-up period, the GOI has
already formally allocated sufficient funds to IAKOSUXrANAL to finance Part I
components through March 1977. Assurances were obtained that, within two
years of Loan signing, the GOI would make definitive arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for financing Part II of the project.
Procurement
3.13      Except where noted otherwise, all items to be financed under the
Bank Loan would be subject to international competitive bidding in accordance
with bank Group guidelines. The large-scale (1:50,000 and above) aerial
photography, worth about US$3.1 million, would be subject to international
competitive bidding. Several local firms are well qualified to compete
for this work, which will by its nature as an adjunct to studies of relatively
small areas be divided into a large number of small contracts rarely exceed-
ing US$100,000 each.
3.14      All equipment and materials, including items required for training
programs, costing a total of about US$4.0 iallion, would be procured after
international competitive bidding, with two classes of exceptions. Small
off-tuie-shelf items, costing less than US$10,000 each, and limited to a
total of US$200,000, would be purchased through normal Government procurement
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. In addition, some of the required
equipment and materials are highly specialized, patented, or compatible with
larger equipment systems, and are thus unsuitable for international competi-
tive bidding. For these items, totalling about US$400,000, procurement would
follow prudent shopping procedures after prior approval by the Bank. For
equipment and materials, a preference of 15% or the level of customs duties,
whichever is less, would be provided to qualified local manufacturers.
3.15      Construction of the headquarters building and facilities, costing
about US$1.4 million, would be subject to international competitive bidding
with a preference limited to 7-1/2% extended to qualified local contractors
in the evaluation of bids. There are a number of local firms who could com-
pete successfully for this contract. Costs of architecture, design, and site
supervision, totalling about US$200,000, would be borne by GOI. As the
proposed headquarters site is Government property (para 4.01), no provision
has been made for land acquisition cost.
3.16      Individual survey firms or consortia of firms would be selected,
following procedures acceptable to the Bank, to provide technical services
worth US$2.2 million, including the extension of geodetic control in Kalimantan
(US$1.4 million), photographic processing (US$0.2 million), and base-map
production in Sumatera and Irian Jaya (US$0.6 million).



- 14 -
Disbursement
3.17      Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made at the rate of 100%
against the foreign exchange expenditures on all directly imported equipment and
materials, 95% of the ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally, and 65%
of the actual cost of locally procured imported items. Disbursements for con-
sultants' and specialists' services and overseas training would be made at
the rate of 100% of foreign expenditures. For construction of the building
complex, large-scale aerial photography, and technical services, disbursements
would be made at 65%, 55% and 50% respectively against certified statements
of work performed. The proposed allocation of the proceeds of the loan is
presented in Annex 6, while the estimated schedule of expenditures and a
semi-annual disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 7. It is expected
that disbursement would be completed by September 30, 1981.
Accounts and Audit
3.18      BAKOSURTANAL is a Government agency whose accounts are audited
annually by the Government's auditors. Assurances were obtained that
BAKOSURTANAL would maintain separate project accounts and that audited
financial statements, together with the auditors' comments, would be submitted
to the Bank within four months of the close of each financial year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      BAKOSURTANAL, the National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and
Mapping, would be responsible for the implementation of the project. It is
one of five non-departmental agencies engaged in the collection, processing,
and analysis of basic data and statistics 1/ which have been placed under the
statutory control of the Minister of State for Research, who has in addition
been granted wide authority in the area of natural resource evaluation.
The site selected for construction of the new headquarters complex for
BAKOSURTANAL is part of a 208-ha plot of Government-owned land at Cibinong,
West Java, which is under the jurisdiction of the Minister of State for
Research.
4.02      BAKOSURTANAL was established in 1969 to advise the President on
all matters related to mapping, surveys, and natural resource evaluation and
to coordinate all surveys and mapping activities within the GOI. Its res-
ponsibilities were expanded recently to include the operational control
of all resource evaluation activities within the GOI and the use of ERTS
imagery for resource evaluation purposes.
1/   The other four are the Central Bureau of Statistics (BPS), the Indonesian
Institute for Sciences (LIPI), the National Institute for Aeronautics
and Space (LAPAN), and the National Agency for Atomic Energy (BATAN).



- 15 -
Project Management
4.03      BAKOSURTANAL is administered by a Chairman assisted by four Deputies
with responsibility for base-mapping, special maps and charts, resource eval-
uation, and systems management (Annex 9). In addition, a computer programming
section will be added to handle the anticipated increase in analytical
cartographic and resource inventory work. Assurances have been obtained that
the positions of Chairman, Deputy for Base-Mapping, and Deputy for Resource
Evaluation would at all times be filled by qualified and experienced persons
and, before an appointment is made to any such position, GOI would afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with it on the qualifications
and experience of the persons considered for the appointment.
4.04      Administration.  The Chairman of BAKOSURTANAL would be the project
manager, in charge of the overall administration of the project and coordi-
nation of the various components. The Deputy for Systems Management would
be primarily concerned with procurement, inter-agency standardization of
cartographic work, the establishment of a training program, and the estab-
lishment of a public service office responsible for issuing catalogs of
available materials and sales and distribution of those materials.
4.05      Base-Mapping.  Base-mapping operations will be the direct responsi-
bility of BAKOSURTANAL's Deputy for Base-Mapping. While most of the aerial
photography, geodesy, and aerial triangulation will be performed by contract,
the photogrammetric compilation and map production and reproduction will
primarily be performed by the staff of BAKOSURTANAL. In addition, topographic
base-mapping of specific areas will be plotted on request by the staff of the
Deputy for Base-Mapping.
4.06      Charting.  The Deputy for Special Maps and Charts would be respon-
sible for implementing a program of aeronautical and navigational charting
in close cooperation with the Department of Communications. Charting work,
which would be performed by BAKOSURTANAL staff, would at first be focussed
on the urgent requirements of civil aviation, as Indonesia currently has no
ongoing program in aeronautical charting.
4.07      Resource Evaluation.  The Deputy for Resource Evaluation would be
responsible for the implementation of several different types of resource
evaluation activities, including the compilation of widely dispersed existing
materials, analysis of satellite imagery and aerial photography with the
imagery interpretation equipment to be provided under the project, field
surveys of regional resource potentials, and thematic mapping and desk
studies synthesizing information from these various sources and the new
national base-map series.
4.08      Reconnaissance resource evaluation and monitoring utilizing earth
satellite imagery have made great strides in recent years, and there is a
nucleus group of Indonesian scientists and technicians working in BAKOSURTANAL,
closely allied Government agencies and the major Indonesian universities,
who are well versed in the use of the latest analytical techniques in this



- 16 -
field and capable of training others in those techniques. Imagery interpre-
tation would be performed by BAKOSURTANAL staff and qualified staff members
from other agencies and the universities.
4.09      The Deputy for Resource Evaluation would also be responsible for
executing BAKOSURTANAL's program of regional resource surveys. These surveys
would rely substantially on fieldwork by multi-disciplinary resource survey
teams which would investigate the economic potentials and ecologic conditions
of specific project-sized areas selected in consultation with BAPPENAS
(para 3.06). The rational selection of areas meriting intensive study as
a basis for project planning will be greatly facilitated by preliminary
analysis of aerial photography and remote sensor imagery. The field teams
would be composed of BAKOSURTANAL staff members and seconded staff from
other agencies and universities. Advisers in resource survey and imagery
analysis provided under the project would also be available to participate.
Manpower and Training
4.10      Accomplishment of the institution-building and production objectives
of the project will entail a rapid increase in the staff of BAKOSURTANAL from
aiout 45 members at present to over 200 at the end of the project period
including over 90 professionals (Annex 4). The necessary staff will be
recruited from the ranks of university graduates and military officers
retiring from the technical mapping services, and no difficulties are anti-
cipated in recruiting the required numbers. In addition, a considerable
amount of training would be provided under the project. Project-related
training activities would be coordinated as closely as possible with the
numerous bilateral training programs available. There is an especially
large number of bilateral programs sponsoring overseas training, and these
sources could handle roughly 50% of the overseas training needs of the
project. Assurances were obtained that BAKOSURTANAL would appoint a qualified
training officer to its staff within nine months of Loan signing to coordinate
training programs and to ensure that effective use is made of available fellow-
ship and training programs.
4.11      There are also several bilateral programs sponsoring training in
project-related fields within Indonesia. The most important of these programs
operate in conjunction with the two universities preeminent in the carto-
graphic and resource survey fields, the Instutut Teknologi Bandung and the
Gadjah Mada University of Jogyakarta respectively. An important new program
to train photogrametric and cartographic technicians administered by
BAKOSURTANAL has recently commenced on the Bandung campus with substantial
assistance from the International Training Center (ITC) of the Netherlands.
This program would be expanded with additional staff to be provided by ITC
and equipment provided under the proposed project to ensure that adequate
numbers of qualified technicians would be available to fulfill project-related
needs. BAKOSURTANAL would also make use of other training programs, such as
those at Gadjah Mada in resource survey and photo-interpretation, and in
addition would organize its own courses to meet specific requirements.



- 17 -
Techni2cal Assistance
4.12      Although BAKOSURTANAL's current staff and recruitment plans imply
that a considerable amount of Indonesian expertise will be available to
implenent the project, both the magnitude and complexity of the tasks to be
performed will require additional expertise in several highly specialized
fields during the life of the project. The Australian Government is committed
to provide one expert in geodesy and aerial photography through 1979 to
assist BAKOSURTANAL in the planning and management of the joint Australian/
lndotnesian field operations in Sumatera and Irian Jaya (para 3.04). ITC has
agreed to provide five man-years of teclhnical assistance in photogrammetry
and cartography, to be used primarily to train BAKOSURTANAL staff (para 4.12).
Under Part II of the projects five man-years of technical assistance in
geodesy and aerial photography would be provided to assist BAKOSURTANAL in
the planning and coordination of the extensive survey components included
in that portion of the project. The Bank would finance the engagement by
BAKOSURT.NAL of internationally recruited experts in the fields of imagery
analysis, orthophoLo production, aeronautical charting, cartographic repro-
duction, data handling, and integrated resource survey. Draft terms of reference
for these specialists are included in Annex 3. The technical assistance to
be financed by the Bank, totalling 12 man-years of specialist services, would
also include provision of two man-years to fill short-term needs. The adviser
in integrated resource survey, who would be on board for at least three years,
would in addition to his technical duties be responsible for advising the
management of BAKOSURTA4AL on the selection of the other advisers to be
provided under the Loan, and for assisting in the coordination and direction
of the work of the other Bank-financed specialists. Assurances were obtained
that specialists to be financed by the Bank would be engaged on terms and
conditions approved by the Bank; and that the adviser in integrated resource
survey would be engaged within six months of Loan signing.
Liaison with User Agencies
4.13      The Minister of State for Research has established a ministerial-
levei steering committee to ensure close liaison between BAKOSURTANAL and
the many agencies which will either provide raw data as input to the agency
or receive processed maps, photography, and data output from it. The steering
committee will be chaired by the Minister of State for Research, and will
include the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Chairman of BAPPENAS as
permanent members with other ministers added on an ad hoc basis when problems
in any specific resource field arise. This same liaison function will be
exercised on an operational level by an existing technical committee chaired
by the Chairman of BAKOSURTANAL (the project manager) and drawing on the
directors of technical departmental divisions and other agencies whose work
is closely related to resource survey and mapping. Finally, fieldwork re-
lated to multi-disciplinary regional resource surveys will be integrated
through the use of seconded staff from specialized departments and agencies.



- 18 -
rn.ssemination of Information
4.14      In the past, available mapping, imagery, and resource survey
materials have not received as wide a distribution as desirable. As antici-
sated benefits depend on the extensive dissemination of project output, as-
surance, were obtained during negotiations that interested agencies of
the Gc.'ernment as well as non-governmental organizations, firms, and indi-
vi.'ua1s doing work for the Government would have ready access to all data,
imagery, photography, maps and charts produced under the project. A library
to housez all materials produced under the project as well as additional
materiaLs collected by BAKOSURTANAL would be included in the building to be
constructed under the project to provide public access. In addition, catalogs
of available materials would be published and distributed throughout the
Government and to universities, firms, and interested members of the general
public. Materials for which considerable demand is evidenced would be repro-
duced in BAKOSURTANAL's facilities and sold to users at a fee which would be
limited to the cost of reproduction. Responsibility for dissemination of
information and distribution of materials would be formally vested in the
Deputy for Systems Management, although all senior staff of BAKOSURTANAL
involved in liaison or multi-disciplinary work would informally excercise
this responsibility.
Future Operating Levels
4.15      By the time the project is completed in late 1980, 1:50,000 base-
maps would have been produced for most of the land area of the country, all
important airfields and aviation and shipping routes would have been charted,
and geodetic control at the density required for 25-meter contour mapping
would have been established throughout the country. BAKOSURTANIAL operations
after this point would focus on the analysis of resource potentials and
the updating and refinement of base and thematic maps for areas receiving
high priority in national investment programs. The generally recommended
base-map updating frequency for regions supporting substantial economic
activity is 15 years, and maintenance of this level would require small-
scale aerial photography of about 30,000 km2 per year, costing about
US$200,000 equivalent in 1976 prices. 1/ Resource surveys, chart updating,
and production of 1:25,000 base-maps for selected areas would justify large-scale
photography of a similar area annually, at a cost of about US$300,000 equivalent.
Acquisition of newly-developed equipment systems and replacements is unlikely
to exceed US$500,000 per annum, while maintaining personnel, training, and
field resource survey operations at the levels reached at the end of the
project would necessitate expenditures on the order of US$1,500,000 per annum.
Total costs of BAKOSURTANAL operations are thus unlikely to exceed US$3,000,000
per annum (January, 1976 prices) afer completion of the project. This sum
would amount to less than 0.4% of projected annual investment in the agri-
cultural sector alone.
1/ This would represent about one-tenth of the peak annual level anticipated
during the project.



- 19 -
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The proposed project would provide substantial econorvic benefits by:
(a)  reducing the costs and delays incurred in mapping and
survey activities required for project preparation and
specialized survey purposes;
(b)  improving the effectiveness of sectoral, regional, and
environmental planning and policy-making; and
(c)  increasing the safety of aviation and navigation.
5.02      Cost and Time Savings in Project Preparation.  The preparation
of infrastructure, agriculture, and resource development projects requires
large-scale planning maps of the project areas. The production of these maps
in turn requires reasonably accurate small-scale base-maps, which must be
keyed to geodetic reference points through the use of aerial photography.
Since adequate base-maps are available for only 13% of Indonesia, project
preparation currently involves considerable expenditure to produce local
base-maps. This involves strip-flying on the periphery of project areas in
order to identify ground reference points, geodetic fieldwork within the
project areas, and the preparation of base-maps for those small areas. The
production of base-maps covering the entire country would eliminate the
necessity for this inefficient piecemeal approach to base-mapping, and
result in considerable cost and time savings in project preparation.
5.03      Project-induced cost savings would benefit the large number of
Government agencies, private firms, and other organizations which rely on
mapping in project preparation and resource survey work. A survey of the
major Indonesian aerial survey firms and specialized map-producing agencies
indicates that about US$2 million equivalent of strip photography and
US$1 million equivalent of cartograplhic work would be saved annually on
public projects alone, at current levels of work. The level of these bene-
fits would be expected to increase along with the volume of investment.
5.04     The elimination of unnecessary mapping operations would reduce
the time as well as the cost of project identification, selection, and pre-
paration, and would remove one of the prime causes of delay in the implementa-
tion of investmient programs in Indonesia. While most of the large sectoral
irivestment programs have experienced considerable delay and slippage in the
past due to the absence of accurate geographic data, the transmigration pro-
gram has probably been most seriously affected.  Without a national reconnais-
sance level inventory of land availability at scales in the 1:50,000 to
1:1i00000 rarge, identification of suitable project sites has been seriously
delayed (para 2.16), and even where such sites have been identified, project
preparation has been delayed by up to two years by the necessity to initiate
soil survey, aerial photography, and soil mapping operations specifically
for the proposed projects and without the background data which could have



- 20 -
eon provided by comprehensive aerial photography and base-map series. The
roposed project would largely eliminate this source of delay in the cycle
of project preparation and implementation, and would thus provide an import-
ant benefit to the economy by advancing the timing of the benefit streams of
the large number of projects whose preparation requires mapping.
5.05      Improvements in Planning Effectiveness.  The proposed project
wo_G imiprove the effectiveness of economic planning at all levels of Govern-
ment. Sectoral planning in the resource-based fields would benefit from an
expanded body of resource data derived from aerial photography, satellite
imagery, and field surveys, as well as from an institutionalized capacity
in BAKOSLRTANAL to continuously update and refine the data base and to
evaluate resource availabilities in economic terms. This data base and
institutional capacity would also enable BAPPENAS to determine where conflicts
between various sectoral programs exist, and to select alternatives which
make the most effective use of available resources. The regional resource
analyses and estimates of regional comparative advantage to be produced by
BAKOSURIANAL would provide both BAPPENAS and local administrations with a
firm technical basis for regional planning. Finally, the project would
provide the information system necessary to monitor ecological developments
and to devise policies to prevent further environmental deterioration and
resource waste.
5.06      The improvements in sectoral investment planning which are anti-
cipated to follow the establishment of a strong resource evaluation capabi-
lity in BAKOSURTANAL would increase the productivity of investment by im-
proving the selection among alternative investment possibilities. The pro-
ductivity of investment in agriculture, transmigration and land settlement
timber and mineral extraction, and related transport infrastructure is
particularly dependent on the accuracy and coverage of natural resource
information, which at present is clearly inadequate in terms of both quality
and quantity (para 2.04). Total public investment in these resource-base
sectors in Indonesia currently exceeds US$500 million equivalent per year.
Thus costs of the proposed project on an annual basis represent less than
2% of current public investment in the benefitting sectors, and relatively
small improvements in the productivity of these investments due to improved
planning and information would alone justify the project.
5.07      Safety of Nlavigation.  Although the benefits of increased safety
of aviation and navigation to be derived from the production of up-to-date
aeronautLcal and hydrographic charts are difficult to quantify, they are
expected to be large in relation to the small incremental costs of the
charting program.
VI. RECO4MENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:



- 21 -
(a)  BAKOSURTANAL would be responsible for assisting contractors
in obtaining all flight permits and clearances required for
project implementation, and that the GOI would ensure issuance
of such permits and clearances before signing of aerial
photography contracts (para 3.09);
(b) The GOI would rmake definitive arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for financing Part II of the project within
two years of Loan signing (para 3.12);
(c) Separate project accounts would be kept by BAKOSURTANAL and
the Government auditors would submit audited financial state-
ments and comments to the Bank within four months of the
close of each financial year (para 3.18);
(d)  Senior managerial positions in BIIKOSURTANAL would at all
times be filled by qualified and experienced persons, and
that new appointments to these positions would be made after
consultation with the Bank (para 4.03);
(e) A qualified training officer would be appointed within nine
months of Loan signing to coordinate training programs
and to ensure that effective use is made of available fellow-
ship and training programs (para 4.10);
(f) Internationally recruited experts to be financed by the
Bank would be engaged on terms and conditions to be
approved by the Bank, and that the adviser in integrated
resource survey would be engaged within six months
of Loan signing (para 4.12); and
(g)  Interested agencies of the Government as well as non-
governmental organizations, firms, and individuals doing
work for the Government would have ready access to all
data, imagery, photography, maps and clarts produced under
the project; and that wide public use of these materials
would be actively promoted by BAKOSURTANAL (para 4.14).
6.02      With the above assurances the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank Loan of US$13 million, with a 20-year maturity and a grace period
of six years. The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.
January 15, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ITDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MPPING PROJECT
Current Status of Mapping and Resource Survey Activities
1.        Information about Indonesia's resource endowment is clearly inade-
quate to meet the needs of national, regional, and project planning and proj-
ect and program execution. In the field of resource surveying and mapping,
Indonesia lags substantially behind other developing countries, many of which
have a far less complex physical and human resource endowment. This situa-
tion is due in part to the inadequate amount of resources devoted in the
past to geodetic and base-mapping work and specialized resource survey and
evaluation activities, but it is also due to excessive fragmentation of
effort in these fields and a resultant duplication of work. The widespread
duplication of work coupled with the low aggregate level of financing means
that much of the research output is unreliable or, at the least, not detailed
enough to serve as a basis for project preparation or rational negotiation of
contracts for resource-based projects.  The fact that the various agencies
use widely varying map projections, base map scales, and categories and modes
of presentation means that much of the output cannot be evaluated compara-
tively, and certainly cannot be integrated to serve as a firm basis for plan-
ning and design of agricultural, transmigration, transportation, and other
projects with strong regional impact.
Coordination of Mapping and Survey Activities
2.        Htapping and survey activities in Indonesia are carried out by a
large number of sectoral departments, research institutes, universities,
and private firms. In 1969 a Presidential Decree was promulgated estab-
lishing the National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping (BAKOSUR-
TANAL), with responsibility for coordinating mapping, resource survey, and
aerial photography operations within the GOI. Unfortunately, the manpower,
budgets, and facilities allocated over the next few years were insufficient
to permit the agency to effectively exercise this responsibility. In par-
ticular, the lack of an accurate and consistent series of base-maps covering
the national territory deprived BAKOSURTANAL of a valuable physical tool with
which to standardize sectoral thematic mapping and to coordinate the work of
regional resource surveys.
3.        Recognizing the importance of a national base map series in pro-
moting the standardization and coordination of resource survey work, the
GOI has designated BAKOSURTANAL as the implementing agency of the proposed
project, thereby uniting the functions of base-map production and survey
coordination in a single agency. In addition, BAKOSURTANAL has been given
the major responsibility for resource inventory and evaluation. This task,



ANNEX 1
Page 2
which involves the compilation, preliminary economic evaluation, and pre-
sentation of resource data in a form which will assist economic planning
and policy-making, has been performed haphazardly in the past, never having
been clearly assigned to any specific agency. The assignment of this func-
tion to BAKOSURTANAL provides a linkage between the full range of resource
fieldwork and analysis on the one hand and economic planning, coordinated
by BAPPENAS, on the other. This linkage should greatly improve both re-
source work, by directing it to operationally relevant areas and problems,
and economic planning, by providing a firmer basis of scientific fact.
Base-Map Coverage and Production
4.        At present, geodetically-controlled base-maps at the 1:50,000
scale required for thematic mapping and evaluation of most natural re-
sources are available for only 13% of the land area of Indonesia. Most
of these are topographic maps produced by the Survey and Mapping Division
(JANTOP) of the Department of Defense. This coverage is propiortionally
among the lowest in the world, lagging far behind countries like Brazil,
India, Pakistan, Peru, and Thailand. For example, the entire land area
of Thailand was covered by 1:50,000 scale topographic base-maps, and most
of Afghanistan was base-mapped at similar scales, by 1962. This lack of
coverage limits the extent and pace of detailed resource surveys, raises
the costs of survey work by factors often exceeding 100% and, most seri-
ously, biases survey activity, systematic resource evaluation, and subse-
quent development investment toward established regions mapped long ago by
the Dutch and away from the potentially richest areas of the outer islands.
5.        The lack of base-map coverage and slow pace of recent base-map
production is in part due to the insufficient equipment with which JANTOP
is now operating. At present six conventional plotters are being used to
produce topographic maps manually, at a rate which would require 30 years
to complete coverage of the country, ignoring updating requirements. While
the rate of production could be increased to some extent by increasing the
number of plotters, delays would be incurred because of the need to train
additional operators to the high levels of skill and meticulousness required
for topographic mapping. The training itself would divert skilled operators
and plotters from map-production for a considerable length of time.
6.        An alternative strategy to accelerate the rate of base-map pro-
duction is to shift from the current total reliance on topographic maps
(which JA1TOP is committed to produce) to uncontoured planimetric maps as
the nation's primary base-map resources. Planimetric maps can be produced
automatically by advanced orthophoto plotters, rapidly 1/ and at a uniformly
high level of accuracy. No agency of the GOI has an orthophoto plotter at
present.
1/   Several orthophotoscopes currently available produce map sheets at rates
six or more times faster than standard manual topographic plotters.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        A reorientation from topographic to planimetric national base-
mapping would provide the opportunity to place the major mapping effort
firmly in the civilian rather than the military sphere.  While JANTOP
has cooperated frequently with sectoral agencies in producing topographic
maps for transmigration and other project areas, conflicts between nilitary
and development-oriented mapping priorities have occurred. Absence of a
civilian mapping agency and total reliance on JANTOP for base-mapping is
one reason why planimetric base-maps, which are of little military use,
have not been produced to date.
8.        The physical input to the map production process is aerial photo-
graphy, which must be keyed to a suitable level of geodetic control in order
to produce undistorted maps. Both the density of geodetic control points
and the scale of photography required for map production are related to the
scale of maps to be produced. The existing geodetic network covers only 20%
of the country at the density required for production of 1:50,000 scale base-
maps. In the field of aerial photography, only about 15% of the land area
has been covered at scales which permit mapping at 1:50,000, and most of
this work pertains to Java and the more developed parts of Sumatera. Only
four large blocks (in northern and southern Sumatera, eastern Java, and
western Kalimantan) were flown within the last six years and hence provide
an up-to-date basis for map production and resource inventories; most of
the remaining photography at these scales predates World War II. Thus, any
major effort to expand base-map coverage of Indonesia would require substan-
tial investments in geodetic control and aerial photography as well as in
equipment and the training of staff.
Use of Remote Sensor Imagery
9.        Remote sensor imagery is particularly valuable in the analysis
of broad regional patterns, such as the interrelated progression of settle-
ment or logging operations, deforestation, erosion, river siltation, and
flooding patterns. Regional patterns of geomorphology and seismic zones
which strongly affect probabilities of mineral discovery, land capability
ald uses, and potential natural hazards, are also amenable to remote sensor
i.magery analysis. This form of analysis Is particularly valuable in coun-
tries where trained specialists capable of undertaking field investigations
are in short supply, and where little field monitoring of geographical con-
ditio*ls in remote areas is done.
10       Despite the fact that BAKOSURTANAL has had to work without ad-
vanced interpretation equipment and with a limited amount of earth satel-
1ite lmagery, the agency has made a promising start toward utilizing avail-
-ible imagery for resource analysis.  In particular, BAKOSURTANAL staff have
begun the ground-truth field investigations which are required for future
use of this type of imagery on a national scale. In its most ambitious
effort in this field to date, the Bali Remote Sensing Project, BAKOSURTANAL
combired the use of ERTS imagery and large-scale aerial photography inter-
pretation with field surveys by teams drawn from several GOI agencies to
investigate the geology, hydrology, soils and land use of that island,



ANNEX 1
Page 4
thereby introducing a large number of specialized researchers to the use
of ERTS imagery in the resource fields. Recognizing BAKOSURTANAL's ex-
pertise and interest in this field, the GOI has recently assigned to the
agency primary responsibility for the use of ERTS imagery for resource
investigation purposes.
Specialized Resource Survey and Mapping Programs
11.       Remote sensor imagery, large-scale aerial photography, base-maps,
and the photography and geodetic data used to produce base-maps are general
tools to be used for a wide range of specialized resource survey and mapping
purposes. There are a large number of research and survey institutions in
Indonesia whose capacity to use these basic materials far exceed their lim-
ited availability. Several agencies, notably those working in the fields
of soil survey, cadaster, geology, and marine sciences, maintain high scien-
tific standards but produce a volume of output limited by budgetary con-
straints. Unfortunately, a substantial part of the budgets of many of the
specialized agencies must be devoted to the production of basic materials,
such as localized base-maps, photography, and geodetic control, which could
be produced much more efficiently on a centralized national basis. Where
available resources do not permit this approach, specialized resource sur-
veys and mapping must be restricted to the areas of the country for which
maps are already available.
12.       A list of GOI agencies involved in mapping and resource survey
is presented in Appendix A, while Appendix B presents a breakdown of the types
of data produced and utilized by several of the specialized mapping and
survey agencies.



ANNEX 1
Appendix A
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
GOI Agencies Engaged in Survey and Mapping
I.   Basic Surveys and Mapping
a.   National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL)
b.   Naval Hydrographic Service (HIDRAL)
c.   Survey and Mapping Division (JANTOP)
II.   Natural Resources
a.   Water Resources
1.   Directorate of Meteorology and Geophysics
2.   Institute of Hydraulic Engineering
3.   National Institute of Oceanography (LON)
4.   Marine Fisheries Research Institute (LPPL)
5.   Directorate General of Fisheries
b.   Mineral Resources
1.   Directorate of Geology (Dir Geologi)
2.   Directorate of Mining (Dir Pertambangan)
3.   State Corporation for Oil Exploration (PERTAMINA)
4.   National Atomic Energy Agency (Badan Tenaga
Atom Nasional)
C.   Soil and Land Resources
1.   Directorate General of Agriculture (Dir. Djen.
Pertanian)
2.   Soil Research Institute (Lembaga Penelitian Tanah)
3.   Directorate of Land Use (Dir Tata Guna Tanah)
4.   Directorate General of Estates (Dir Djen. Perkebunan)
5.   Directorate of Husbandry (Dir Djen. Peternakan)
6.   Directorate of Cadastral Registration (Dir Pendaftaran
Tanah)
7.   Directorate of Land Rights (Dir Pengurusan Hak Tanah)
8.   Directorate of Land Reform
9.   Directorate of Land Registration (Dir Pendaftaran
Tanah)



ANNEX 1
Appendix A
Page 2
d.   Forestry Resources
1.   Forest Research Institute (Lembaga Penelitiah Hutan)
2.   Directorate General of Forestry (Dir Djen Kehutanan)
e.   Multidisciplinary
1.   National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS)
2.   Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI)
3.   Provincial Governments
4.   Universities
III.   Capital Resources
a.   Directorate General of Public Works (Dir Djen. Bina Marga)
b.   Directorate of Irrigation (Dir Irrigasi)
c.   Directorate of Major Rivers (Dir Sungai Rawa)
d.   Department of Communications (Dep Perhubungan)
e.   Directorate of City and Urban Planning (Dir Tata Kota dan
Daerah)
f.   Directorate General of Electric Power (Dir Djen Tenaga
Listric)
IV.   Human Resources
a.   Central Bureau of Statistics (Biro Pusat Statistik)
b.   Department of Transmigration and Cooperatives (Dep
Transmigrasi dan Koperasi)
c.   Directorate General of Regional (Social) Planning



Geographic Referenc                           Mineral
DATA GROUPS              Material            Land  Data            Data       Water   Forest  Dcean Data    Bc.
0                                                                              la,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0            12     k  m     4  H         8~~~0       4
-H                                       cc 
0)                              00 0-1408  )4            ;94              024
Naval ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~0 Hydr. Ofic  c  c      ccP                                                               cp 
Land~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ as orec-rt  c4     p   cp   c                               ccc          cl c
GologAicaTI Su  w y0 c0 c0 c  c  c                                          cpcp                                             p
L A P A N              c  c  c pc pc  c  c     c                     cA                                        l p
BorosUtAL PlCnn                    PCic  a c          c  c Pc c      c     cccc                     pccc                    c|
Navat  bd. O  ffngrpice Int         c         c c PC                                                              pcapc?
Land UseatirectOffico            c  c                  pc pc pc aPPCpCCc    c  0  c    pc          pc                        a
Cadstoorologlcal an                 c                a 
Cloonogial  Survey o             c  c  o       c a                                                                         ?c a    CP   CPC
Ltatistics                      c  c                   c PC cPpCp c                                       pc a             c PC
WatPerA ReoreDrc  c                           c         c  c a            c   c  c         Pc  Pcc  c       c  cPl c 
Forbae&Roioa Planning office       c a     c a   c   _  c     a  c    c      c    c  c               PC c  PC c                    
LandLEEN Taato  Ofic  =        Prdcto              PC PCt PC PCnce   aepnil ao    Pol ct   Pn rcsn.|
Urban~~~~~~~~       = Consumptio Plnnn  Dirat a   by    00Cc                  agnce  pr l  utlzn  or rourn   sch Cata  in  th   fuue 0 
I   A   I   a   U    I   a   I   I   I   I   I   I   A   I   I   I   i
LEGND-p Prducioofdaab gni   reaonsbleforco
c    ommto  ofdt   yaece   rsntyuiiigo   eurngsc   aai   h   uue



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Project Description
1.        Although several project components serve a variety of purposes,
for purposes of simplified presentation the components may be grouped into
three categories:
(a) Basic survey operations required for production of base-
maps, including aerial photography, geodetic control,
and aerial triangulation;
(b) Establishment of an advanced base-map production and
resource inventory capability in BAKOSURTANAL. This
would involve construction and equipping of a head-
quarters for the agency, provision of aerial photo-
graphy and satellite imagery to support regional
resource surveys, and substantial technical assis-
tance and training; and
(c) Implementation by BAKOSURTANAL of operational programs
which would complete base-map coverage of the entire
land area of the country, accelerate and improve the
production of navigational charts, and produce compre-
hensive regional resource surveys based on the work of
multi-disciplinary field teams . These programs would
utilize the equipment and materials provided under (a)
and (b).
Basic Survey Operations
2.        Geodetic control.  The primary purpose of the geodetic control
component is to provide a framework of data on horizontal and vertical
distances between selected reference points required to produce accurate
planimetric base-maps. In addition, the geodetic data generated would be
used for subsequent mapping of a more detailed nature, including topographic
contour mapping. The raw data will also be useful for geologic survey and
other specialized resource survey applications.
3.        Horizontal geodetic control at the density required for 1:50,000
scale mapping would be established throughout Indonesia with the exception
of Sumatera, Irian Jaya, and part of West Kalimantan, where control is being
provided with Australian and British assistance, and Java and Bali, where
the existing network is adequate. Geodetic control fieldwork in Kalimantan,
to be executed by survey firms, would be financed under Part I of the
project, while control for the remaining areas would be financed under Part
II. The exact horizontal position (latitude and longitude) of approximately



ANNEX 2
Page 2
480 control points would be established by large field teams working with
up to six Doppler satellite receivers. Vertical control, consisting of the
determination of precise elevations of the control points and the establishment
of approximately 32,000 km of level lines, would be provided through the
use of airborne radar altimeters. The density of the vertical control
network to be established would support subsequent topographic mapping
with contour intervals of 25 meters.
4.        Small-scale aerial photography.  Aerial photography at the
1:100,000 scale covering all of Indonesia with the exception of Sumatera,
Irian Jaya, and part of West Kalimantan would be provided under the project.
A total of approximately 950,000 km2 would be photographed by jet aircraft
of the Lear-jet type. This photography would be used by BAKOSURTANAL to
produce 1:50,000 base-maps, and by forestry evaluation teams as the basis for
a national reconnaissance forest inventory.
5.        The 1:100,000 photography scale is the smallest scale which can
be used to produce 1:50,000 maps with currently available technology,
instrumentation, and aircraft. This scale presents several important
advantages over larger scales which could be used to produce 1:50,000 maps.
Aside from minimizing the amount of flying required, the 1:100,000 scale
results in the largest possible area being covered by each photograph and
the smallest possible number of photographs required to cover the terri-
tory. As each photograph used for mapping purposes must include a fixed
number of geodetic control points 1/, minimizing the number of photographs
required also results in minimizing the number of geodetic control points.
The scale selected thus minimizes the costs of both the aerial photography
and geodetic control work included in the project. In addition, the
1:100,000 scale photography presents a manageable data base which can be
used for reconnaissance resource evaluation at the national and regional
levels.  For example, the_19,000 photographs to be produced at this scale
would be effectively utilized by forestry evaluation teams. The much
larger numbers required at larger scales 2/ would be unmanageable.
6.        Aerial triangulation.  The orthophoto map production process re-
quires a considerable amount of data to remove the distortions inherent in
the aerial photography input. The computation of this data, or aerial
triangulation, will be performed with high precision measuring equipment
(stereo-comparators) and computers.
1/  Normally at least three points are required.  More points permit
greater accuracy.
2/   At 1:50,000 scale, 76,000 photographs would be required.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
stablishment of Resource Inventory and Mapping Capability
Building and facilities.  BAKOSURTANAL's present facilities in
downtown Jakarta are too small to house the large cartographic and print-
ing shols, photographic laboratory, and library required to achieve the
objectives of the proposed project. Also the present location is close
to extr,emely busy urban traffic routes and construction activity which
would disturb the delicate plotting mechanisms of the cartographic equip-
ment to be provided. The new headquarters complex to be financed under
the pro;ject would be located near Cibinong between Jakarta and Bogor, easily
accessible to the important soils, forestry, and agriculture institutes and
universLties in Bogor as well as to Jakarta.
8.        Four two-story buildings, with a total floor space of 4,000 m ,
would be constructed. Since the film materials and many of the instruments
to be installed are sensitive to heat and dust, central air conditioning
would be provided. The cost of architects' fees and engineering for the
complex would be borne by GOI.
9.        Equipment and materials.  Equipment and materials required for
map production, reproduction of maps and reports, imagery interpretation,
and the outfitting of a library and data bank would be procured by
BAKOSURTANAL under the proposed project. All equipment provided will
eventually be installed in the new building to be constructed, although
some of the smaller and more readily available items will first be
utilized in the agency's present facilities.
10.       Map production equipment would include a battery of plotters
capable of producing high quality 1:50,000 scale base-maps for the entire
country dur_ng the project period, as well as larger-scale maps (1:25,000,
1:10,000, etc.) for detailed resource analysis and navigational charting.
There are two basic types of plotters in general use: A machine specifi-
cally detsigned to produce maps rapidly with a minimum amount of operator
attention and skill, usually referred to as an orthophotoscope; and a con-
ventionaLl plotter 1/ which operates relatively slowly and thus requires a
greater input in skilled operator time per map sheet produced. In addition
to their automatic production capability, several orthophotoscope machines
are capable of projecting undistorted three-dimensional images of aerial
photos, a feature which is extremely valuable for the study of physical
geography and resource inventory work. For purposes of base-map produc-
tion andi resource survey the orthophotoscopes are thus clearly superior,
despite the fact that the cost of the conventional plotter and attachments
is only about 40% that of the orthophotoscopes. For purposes of topographic
contour mapping of small areas, however, the production rate of existing
1/   Usually available with attachments which permit semi-automatic ortho-
photo map production.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
orthophotoscopes is little better than that of a conventional manual plot-
ter, and the latter is preferred on the grounds of economy. Because of the
variety in the types of maps BAKOSURTANAL will be called upon to produce,
plotters of both types would be provided.
11.       Additional map production equipment to be provided would include
a cartographic process camera, a mini-computer, scribing instruments and
tables, and expendable materials.
12.       Reproduction equipment would include a large rotary map press,
several smaller printers, cameras and platemakers, developing units, and
stocks of film, plates, paper and ink.
13.       BAKOSURTANAL has the technical expertise to utilize earth satel-
lite imagery competently and thoroughly for resource analysis, and would
acquire a large bank of such imagery under the project (para 15). In the
past few years a number of sophisticated electronic instruments have been
developed to permit the detailed interpretation and analysis of earth
satellite images at a level far beyond visual inspection. Although this
type of instrument represents a substantial investment, it enables a single
experienced researcher to analyze resource potentials, ecological change,
and navigational conditions over large regions with a minimum amount of
supplementary field investigation and in a minimum amount of time. In
addition to economizing on the use of scarce scientific and technical
manpower for field survey purposes, electronic imagery interpretation
provides the means for continuous monitoring of geographical trends and
for isolating and integrating geographical factors through enhancement of
various image bands on a viewing screen. Provision of an imagery inter-
pretation machine is therefore included in the project on the grounds of
quality, speed, and overall economy of resource evaluation work.
14.       A data center consisting of a library of books, reports, photo-
graphy, maps, imagery, and computerized data bearing on Indonesia's resources
would be established in BAKOSURTANAL's new headquarters. Equipment and fur-
nishings for this center, including storage and map cases and files, cata-
logs, and other furniture would be provided under the project.
15.       Remote sensor imagery.  The project would finance the acquisition
by BAKOSURTANAL of two complete sets of earth satellite imagery covering
the national territory, one obtained during the dry season and one during
the rainy season. Computer analysis of the image tapes would also be pro-
cured, as would the film required to develop image negatives.
16.       Large-scale aerial photography.  The project would provide a sub-
stantial amount of large-scale photography to support BAKOSURTANAL's planned
resource survey and charting operations. Both regional resource inventories
and project identification in transmigration, agriculture development, and
other fields typically require photography in the 1:50,000 to 1:10,000 scale
range for evaluation of land resource capability and to produce thematic maps
synthesizing the results of field investigations and imagery interpretation.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
The production of the most urgently needed aeronautical charts would require
1:25,000 and 1:40,000 photography of areas surrounding airfield sites. The
project would finance aerial photography covering approximately 300,000 km2
(15% cf the country) at these larger scales.
17.       Technical assistance and training.  These components of the pro-
posed project are discussed in detail in Annexes 3 and 4 respectively.
Mapping and Resource Survey Operations
18.       Base-map production.  Planimetric base-maps at 1:50,000 scale
would be produced under the project for all of Indonesia with the exception
of parts of West Kalimantan, Sumatera, and Irian Jaya, for which the Royal
Australian Survey Corps and JANTOP will produce 1:50,000 topographic maps.
Maps of the remaining areas of Sumatera and Irian Jaya would be produced
by survey firms under Part I of the project. Maps of Sulawesi, Java,
Bali, the unmapped portions of Kalimantan, the Lesser Sunda Islands, the
Moluccas, and other regions would be produced by BAKOSURTANAL staff utilizing
equipment (paras 9 - 12), 1:100,000 scale aerial photography (para 4), aerial
triangulation data (para 6), and geodetic control data (paras 2 and 3) to
be provided under the project.
19.       The 1:50,000 mapping scale was selected to satisfy the basic re-
quirements of the maximum number of specialized sectoral and mapping agen-
cies. This scale is particularly well-suited to thematic mapping presenting
the results of regional resource surveys and of specialized resource surveys
(soils, land use, etc.) which would be synthesized to present a firm basis
for transmigration planning. 1/ It is also one of the standard base-mapping
scales used throughout the world.
20.       Charting operations.  BAKOSURTANAL would produce aeronautical and
navigational charts keyed to the base-maps and geodetic data to be produced
under the proposed project and by the joint Australian/Indonesian operations.
The charts would be produced by BAKOSURTANAL staff, utilizing equipment
(paras 9 - 12) and large-scale aerial photography (para 16) provided under
the project. Charting work programs would follow the priorities established
by the Department of Communications.  In addition, BAKOSURTANAL would pro-
vide satellite imagery materials and analysis to the Department of Communi-
cations to assist in the preparation of navigational guides and bulletins
and to update existing charts.
21.       Regional resource surveys.  Although small-scale mapping photo-
graphy and satellite imagery will facilitate resource and environmental
analysis at the reconnaissance level and help identify broad patterns of
potential development, field surveys would be required to generate the
more detailed data needed to identify project possibilities and to delin-
eate favorable project areas. Survey operations would be planned and
directed by BAKOSURTANAL, although the field teams would be composed of
1/   The Director General of Transmigration has approved the selection
of the 1:50,000 scale for this purpose.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
staff drawn from the line departments and universities as well as from
BAKOSURTANAL. The agency has coordinated such multi-disciplinary, multi-
agency teams successfully in the past, in full cooperation with the spe-
cialized departments and institutes. The work of the field surveys would
be supported by large-scale aerial photography provided under the project
(para 16).
22.       The surveys would cover natural geographical regions, primarily
in the outer islands, which on the basis of existing information, imagery
and photo interpretation, and field checking appear favorable for trans-
migration and land settlement, irrigation, agricultural development, mineral
extraction and lumbering, or transport infrastructure investment. Surveys
on Java would be primarily oriented to the assessment of deforestation,
erosion, flooding patterns, and other forms of ecological deterioration and
the determination of suitable resource conservation policies and programs.
BAKOSURTANAL has already produced a tentative five-year work program of
regional resource surveys based on the regional and sectoral priorities
enunciated in the Second Five-Year Plan. This work program would be re-
viewed periodically in consultation with BAPPENAS, and each individual
resource survey project would require prior BAPPENAS approval.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.        Successful implementation of the proposed project depends on the
execution of several highly complex technical tasks on a rather tight sched-
ule. While BAKOSURTANAL currently has on its staff a nucleus of highly
competent technical experts which will be augmented by recruitment and
training, planned expansion of the agency's operations would strain the
capacity of its senior staff unless timely technical assistance were pro-
vided. Several staff members who currently perform much of the technical
and analytic work will be forced to devote an increasing share of their
time to administration, recruitment of new staff, supervision of technical
work and training programs, and liaison with other agencies. The project
would provide about 17 man-years of individual specialists' services to
assist the agency in the installation and running-in of the new equipment
systems, the execution of specialized technical tasks, and training of
counterparts. With properly managed technical assistance, BAKOSURTANAL
is envisaged to be self-sufficient by the time the project is terminated
in 1980.
2.        Part I of the project includes provision for technical assistance
in integrated resource survey (3 man-years), printing and reproduction (2
man-years), imagery analysis (2 man-years), aeronautical charting (1 man-year),
data handling (1 man-year), and orthophoto map production (1 man-year) as
well as 24 man-months of short-term assistance in such areas as aero-triangulation,
procurement, and the design of training programs. Draft terms of reference
for the specialists whose services would be financed by the Bank are included
in Appendix A to this Annex.
3.        Part II of the. project would provide 5 man-years of technical
assistance in aerial photography and geodesy, to assist BAKOSURTANAL manage-
ment of major survey operations.
4.        In addition to the technical assistance provided under the project,
BAKOSURTANAL would receive technical assistance from Australia and the
Netherlands. Specifically, one Australian expert in aerial photography and
geodesy will be assigned to BAKOSURTANAL at least through 1979. This adviser
will be primarily concerned with the mapping of Sumatera and Irian Jaya, but
would also be available to provide general assistance in his field of ex-
pertise. Two experts (in photogrammetry and cartography) from the Interna-
tional Institute for Aerial Survey and Earth Sciences (ITC) in the Nether-
lands will be assigned to BAKOSURTANAL on a half-time basis over the duration
of the project to assist in the training of staff and in the implementation
of the proposed parallel project. The total amount of technical assistance



ANNEX 3
Page z
to be provided is sufficient to ensure that both the physical map-production
and the resource evaluation institution-building objectives of the project
can be achieved within the project period.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX A
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference of Integrated Resource Survey Adviser
Employer:            Government of Indonesia
Duty Station:        Jakarta/Cibinong, Indonesia
Date Required:       August, 1976
Duration:            Three years (extendable)
Duties:              (1)  To advise and assist the management of BAKOSURTANAL
in the reorganization of the agency;
(2)  To advise and assist BAKOSURTANAL in the selection
of other technical assistance advisers and the
coordination of their activities;
(3)  To advise and assist BAKOSURTANAL's Deputy for
Integrated Resource Evaluation in the planning,
organization, execution, and supervision of
multidisciplinary regional resource surveys;
(4) To assist the said Deputy in the analysis of data
derived from integrated resource surveys and other
sources, including remote sensor imagery and aerial
photography; and
(5) To assist in the training of counterparts.
Qualifications:      At least 10 years experience in development-oriented
integrated resource survey work, including at least
5 years in tropical regions. Academic background
should include training in one or more of the earth
sciences, geography, or agriculture. Experience,
measured in terms of extent, level, and quality, is
a more important prerequisite for this position than
academic background.
Language:            English.  Ability to communicate in Indonesian would
be desirable.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX A
Page 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference of Adviser in Imagery Analysis
Employer:           Government of Indonesia
Duty Station:       Cibinong
Date Required:      July, 1977
Duration:           Two years
Duties:             (1)  To assist in the establishment and subsequent
operation of a remote sensing laboratory; and
(2) To assist the Deputy for Integrated Resource
Survey in all phases of work related to inter-
pretation of imagery, including the training
of staff in the techniques of imagery analysis.
Qualifications:     Experience in digital and non-digital imagery analysis
and interpretation, as well as in ground truth data
collection. Experience in systems analysis for the
organization of integrated remote sensing projects
would be considered an asset. The adviser should have
an academic background in one of the earth sciences,
geography, agriculture, or forestry.
Language:           English.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX A
Page 3
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Expert in
Cartography, Color Separation, and Printing
Employer:            Government of Indonesia
Duty Station:        Jakarta/Cibinong, Indonesia
Date Required:       December, 1976
Duration:            Two years
Duties:              (1)  To assist in the procurement and installation
of major items of cartographic, photographic,
and printing equipment in BAKOSURTANAL's new
headquarters;
(2)  To assist in the operation and management of
the cartographic and printing shops and in
the fulfillment of project-related work
schedules; and
(3)  To assist in the training of cartographic
and printing technicians as required.
Qualifications:      The expert should be experienced in the printing
field with special emphasis on cartographic repro-
duction and color separation. Facility in the
repair as well as the operation of printing equip-
ment would be most desirable. An academic background
in the field of cartography would be preferable.
Language:            English.  Ability to communicate in Indonesian would
be considered an asset.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX A
Page 4
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Orthophoto Production Adviser
Employer:            Government of Indonesia
Duty Station:        Cibinong
Date Required:       January, 1978
Duration:            One year
Duties:              (1)  To assist in the installation of map production
equipment and in the establishment of an effi-
cient orthophoto map production system;
(2) To assist in the management of the orthophoto
map production system to insure that the plani-
metric base-mapping program remains on sched-
ule; and
(3) To train staff members and technicians in or-
thophoto map production processes as required.
Qualifications:     A degree in photogrammetry would be desirable.  Expe-
rience in orthophoto mapping operations, acquaintance
with the latest developments in orthophoto techniques
and equipment, and a good grounding in the planning
of aerial photographic operations are essential.
Language:            English.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX A
Page 5
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Aeronautical Charting Adviser
Employer::           Government of Indonesia
Duty Station:       Jakarta/Cibinong
Date Required:       August, 1977
Duration:            One year
Duties:              (1)  To advise and assist the management of
BAKOSURTANAL in organizing and establishing
a Program of aeronautical charting in the
agency; and
(2) To assist the Deputy for Special Maps and
Charts in the operational work of aeronautical
charting to be carried on under the program
mentioned above, including the training of
staff in charting techniques.
Qualifications:      A strong cartographic background is required, as
well as a close acquaintance with the standard
regulations of aeronautical charting and at least
five years experience in the civil aviation field.
Language:            English.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX A
Page 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Data Handling Specialist
Employer:           Government of Indonesia
Duty Station:       Cibinong
Date Required:      January, 1978
Duration:           One year
Duties:              (1)  To assist the Deputy for Systems Management in
establishing procedures for acquisition, cata-
loguing, processing, and circulation of all
forms of materials bearing on Indonesia's re-
source endowment and physical geography;
(2) To assist in the establishment of a computerized
resource data handling and retrieval system; and
(3) To assist BAKOSURTANAL management in planning
the physical layout of the library and data
processing units in the headquarters building
to be constructed under the project.
Qualifications:     A strong background in library science and computer-
ized data processing, storage, and retrieval is
essential. Experience in the management of tech-
nical or scientific libraries would be desirable.
Experience in computer programming and operation
would also be advantageous.
Language:           English.  Ability to read Indonesian would be an
important asset.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Training
1.        BAKOSURTANAL currently employs 45 staff, including 21 profession-
als and 13 technicians below the deputy level (Table 1). To effectively
carry out its coordination functions and to fulfill operational responsi-
bilities related to the project, staffing and training programs would have
to be substantially expanded. The proposed manpower plan presented in
Table 1 indicates that by the completion of the project a total of about
220 staff, including about 90 professionals, would be required. About 50%
of the staff would be engaged in geodetic survey, photogrammetric plotting,
and chart and map production and reproduction. Staffing requirements would
be unlikely to diminish after completion of the national 1:50,000 base-map
series, because of the need for continuous updating, for addition of contour
lines to the planimetric base, and for subsequent production of larger-scale
base-maps (e.g., 1:25,000) for more developed regions.
2.        Staff will be recruited from the ranks of local university and
technical school graduates and military officers retiring from the tech-
nical mapping services. These new personnel, like many of BAKOSURTANAL's
present staff, are likely to have a good background in the fundamentals of
map production technology and resource evaluation but are unlikely to have
been exposed to the more specialized aspects of these fields and recently
developed techniques and equipment. A substantial amount of both local
and overseas training of existing and newly recruited staff is thus pro-
vided in the project, in addition to the opportunities offered by available
bilateraL training programs. In view of the amount of training to be per-
formed, a permanent training officer would be appointed to BAKOSURTANAL's
staff to coordinate training programs and to ensure that effective use is
made of available fellowships and training programs.
3.        The project would finance the foreign exchange costs of 49 man-
years of overseas training and 111 man-years of local training. The esti-
mated breakdown of this training program by field is presented in Table 2.
Overseas training would be performed in such institutions as the Universi-
ties of New Brunswick and Saskatchewan (Canada), the Magnavox Research
Laboratory (USA), the National Mapping Institute (Australia), and the
International Institute for Aerial Survey and Earth Sciences (ITC) in the
Netherlands.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Local training 1/ would be performed at Gadjah Mada University
(earth sciences, imagery interpretation, thematic cartography), Institut
Teknologi Bandung (geodesy, photogrammetry, cartography), the Academy of
Instrumentation (electronic equipment maintenance), and BAKOSURTANAL, as
well as at other local universities and research institutes as required.
An important new program to train photogrammetric and cartographic tech-
nicians administered by BAKOSURTANAL has recently commenced on the Bandung
campus with substantial assistance from ITC (Netherlands). This program
would be expanded to ensure that BAKOSURTANAL's skilled manpower require-
ments would be met.
5.        The advisers to be provided under the project would be responsible
for on-the-job training of counterpart staff. Considerable care would be
exercised both in preparing the terms of reference of the advisers and later
supervision of their work to ensure maximum transfer of expertise to local
counterparts.
1/   Estimates of the needs and capabilities for local training are based
in part on a report prepared by Mr. A. A. Machrany under the guidance
of Mrs. Sudiarti Luhulima, staff members of the Indonesian Institute
of Sciences (LIPI).



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
BAKOSURTANAL Manpower Plan /
(Staff Below Deputy Level) /
June        June      June     June      June     June
Section                     1975 (Actual)   1976      1977      1978     1979    1280
Geodesy:
Professional J                  5            5        5         6        6         6
Technician                      4            4        6         7        7         7
Photogrammetry:
Professional                   .3            3        4         6        8         8
Technician                      0            4       10       14        16        25
Cartographic Reproduction:
Professional                    1            2        4         8       10        10
Technician                      3           6        12        25       31        31
Charting:
Professional.                   5            5        5         6        7         8
Technician                      6            8       10        12       12       12
Remote Sensing Data Analysis:
Professional                    -            9       13        15       15        15
Technician                      -            2        2         2        2         2
Natural Resources:
Professional                    1            4        6         8       10        10
Technician                      -            2        3         4        4         4
Socio-economic Resources:
Professional                    2            4        4         6        6         6
Technician                      -            1        2         4        4         4
Thematic Cartography:
Professional                    2            5        7        11       14        14
Technician                      -            4        6        10       18        22
Systems Management:
Professional                    2            4        5         6        6         6
Technician                      -            1        5         6        8       10



Table 1
Page 2
June        June      June     June      June     June
1975 (Actual)   1976      1977     1978      1979     1980
Computer Services:
Professional                    -            1         2        2        2         2
Technician                      -            -5                 5        5         5
Workshop:
Professional                    -            1        2         3        5         5
Technician                      -            2        2         5        6         8
Total Professional         21          43        57        77       89       90
Total Technician           13           34       63        94      113      130
Total Staff             34          77       120     _171       202      220
2/  These figures were prepared for estimating purposes and may be changed during
implementation depending on rates of implementation of various components and
skills of recruited staff.
2/ Excludes secretaries and personal assistants of chairman and deputies.
3/ Includes persons graduating from the 3-year Baccalaureat engineering ccurses
and 5-year Dok'torandus (M.A.) courses offered1 by various Indonesian universities.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Training Schedule lJ
Fields                           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980        Total
------------------  an-years)-----------------
Geodesy:
Overseas Training              -        -       1        1       1          3
Local Training                 -        -       -        -        -         -
Photogrammetry:
Overseas: Training             -        2       1        1       1          5
Local Training                 3        6       4        3       9         25
Cartographic Reproduction:
Overseas Training               -1               1       1i     1          4
Local Training                 3        6      13        6       -         28
Cartography and Charting:
Overseas Training                       1       1        1       1          45
Local Training                 6        4       6        7       4         27
Earth Sciences, Social Sciences
and Imagery Interpretation:
Overseas Training              1        4       5        41     5         192
Local Training                 3        4       4        3       2         16
Computer Sciences and Systems
Management:
Overseas Training              -        1       2        3       2          8
Local Training                 -        -       3        3       1          7
Electronics, Optical and
Mechanical DEigineering:
Overseas Training              -        1       2        1       1          5
Local Training                          2       3        1       2          8
Total Overseas Training           2        9      13       13      12         49 J
Total Local Training             15       22      33       23      18        111
1/  This table was prepared for estimating purposes; the schedule may be changed
during implementation.
2   This is in addition to 5 man-years of training in photogrammetry and 414 years
in cartography provided through Netherlands Government fellowships at the
ITC in Ehschede.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Cost Estimates
1.        Cost estimates for the IBRD components were prepared by prepara-
tion missions in July 1973 and March 1974. During the appraisal mission
in October/November 1974 the estimates were reviewed, adjusted, and updated
to end-1974 levels. These estimates were later updated to January 1976 levels
by using various multiplier factors, including 1.18 for the cartographic
equipment itemized in the various equipment lists (Tables 7-11), 1.28 for
building and facilities (Table 2), and 1.35 for large-scale aerial photo-
graphy (Table 4).
2.        Cost estimates for the Part II components were prepared by various
CIDA preparation missions, and were discussed and reviewed with Bank mission
members at various stages in the preparation process. In addition, independent
estimates for those components were prepared by consultants participating in
the Bank missions. The high foreign-cost elements of the Part II components
are appropriate for implementation through bilateral assistance programs.
3.       Physical contingencies of 15% have been included for all project
components, excluding technical assistance. For this component, a reserve
provision for 24 man-months of specialists' services has been included in
the base-cost estimate.
4.        Expected price increases for equipment of 10% in 1976, 8% in
1977-79, and 7Z in 1980 have been allowed for. For all other items the
assumed increase is 14% in 1976, 12% in 1977-79, and 10% in 1980. These
percentages are based on Bank guidelines of December 27, 1974, and are in
general agreement with the estimates of the country economists. The same
rates were used for both foreign and local costs.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Cost Estimate Tables
Table 1        Cost Estimates (summary)
Table 2        Building and Facilities
Table 3        Remote Sensor Imagery
Table 4        Large-Scale Aerial Photography
Table 5        Training
Appendix        Equipment List
Table 6        Equipment List:  Summary
Table 7        Printing Equipment and Materials
Table 8        Imagery Interpretation and Training Equipment
Table 9        Data Bank
Table 10       Cartographic Equipment
Table 11       Photogrammetric Equipment and Materials



INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESO'JRCE SURVEY AND NAPPING PROJECT
Cost Estimates
(January 1976 prices)
% Foreign    % of
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total    Exchange         Total
- upiah mallion---      =:US  million
A) Part I Components:
Building and Facilities             380      300    680    ,0.9        0.7     1.6        44          4
Equipment and gaterials             400    1,110   1,510     1.0       2.7     3.7        74          8
Remote Sensor Imagery                -       120     120      -        0.3     0.3       100          1
Large-Scale Aerial Photography      560      710   1,270      1.4      1.7     3.1        56           7
Technical Services                  460      450     910     1.1      1.1      2.2        49          5
Technical Assistance                 40      380     420     0.1       0.9     1.0        90          2
Training                             70      260     330     0.2       o.6     0.8        79           2
Regional Resource Surveys           920      170   1,100      2.2      o.4     2.6        15           5
Administration and Overheads        510       80     590     1.2       0.2     1.4        14          3
Base Cost Estimate                3,340    3,580   6,920     8.1       8.6   16.7         52         37
Physical Contingencies              490      480     970      1.2      1.1     2.3        49           5
Expected Price Increases          1,540    1,380   2,920      3.7      3.3     7.0        47         15
Sub-Total                       5,370    5,440  10,810    13.0      13.0   26.0         50         57
B)  Part II Components:
Small-Scale Aerial Photography       70    2,960   3,030     0.2       7.1     7.3        98         16
Geodetic Control                    100    1,660   1,760     0.2       4.o     4.2        94          9
Aerial Triangulation                -        120      120      -       0.3     0.3       100           1
Technical Assistance                 30      130     160     0.1       0.3     0.4        81           1
Training                            -        210     210       -       0.5     0.5       100           1
Base Cost Estimate                  200    5,080   5,280     0.5      12.2   12.7         96         28
physical Contingencies               30      770     800      0.1      1.9    2.0         96           4
Expected Price Increases             90    2,110   2,200     0.2.      5.1     5.3        96          11
Sub-Total                         320    7,960   8,280     0.8      19.2    20.0        96         43
Total Project Cost                5,690   13,400  19,090    13.8      32.2   46.0         70         100



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJBT
Cost Estimates : Building and Facilities
% Foreign
Local    Foreign     Total         Cost
A. PHYSICAL WORKS
Construction, @ $275/m2 x 4,000 m2   66o,ooo   440,o0o   1,100,000         40
Air-conditioning equipment and
installation                         31,000   179,000     210,000        85
Electrical connections, trans-
formers, and reserve generator       20,000    90,000     110,000        82
Other utilities and site
improvements                         47,000    23,000      70,000        33
Total: Physical Works               758,000   732,000   1,490,000         49
B. DESIGN AND SUPERVISION
Design, @ 5% of total costs-           82,000      --        82,000         0
Site supervision, ' 4% of total
coststi                            65,ooo       --        65,ooo        0
Total: Design and Supervision         147,000               147,000         0
Total Costs: Building &  Facilities       905,000   732,000   1,637,000        45
1/ These rates conform to standards issued by BAPPENAS and the Department of
Finance for building complexes costing over US$500,000 equivalent.



INDONEIA
NATIONAL RES9URCE SURVE ANiD NAPPING PROJECT
Cost Bstitst   Reomt Senor Imaery
Us $
Imagery - 440 ERTS , n  (on tape)
* $250/miag.'                                     3l109000
Analysis -  0 hours of couater analysis
of ERTS imAge tapes, 6 $300/hour                  132,000
Film - For prodation of individual positive
images from iagery tapes 
Total                          272,000
1/ Full coverage of Indonesia can be obtained from 220 images.
The project would provide for complete coverage um6or both
wet and dry seson conditions.  kact timln  of imagery
acquisition would depend on the degree of cloud covw during
sccessive orbits.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Estimate Build-up for Large-Scale Aerial Photography
Cost
Photo       per 1cm2    Coverage    Amount
Scale       (US$)        _(km2)     (US$)
Aeronautical Charting
a.  To produce 1:10,000 scale
aerodrome obstruction charts
for 40 airfields, 7.5 km
radius fo:r each site                1:25,000       17           7,200      122,000
b.  To produce 1:25,000 scale approach
charts for 4 airfields, 20 km
radius fo:r each site                1:40,000       11          5,100        56,ooo
Regional Resource Surveys
To provide materials for detailed      1:10,000       75           2,500      188,000
and semi-detailed resource evaluation 1:20,000        22          7,000       154,000
and for production of thematic         1:30,000       14          15,000      210,000
maps at various scales                 1:40,000       11         25,000       275,000
1:50,000       9         230,000    2,070,000
Total                                              291,800    3,075,000
Note: The above were used for estimating purposes and may be modified by G0I at
project implementation.



ANNEX 5
Table 5
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAEPING PROJECT
Cost Estimates  TrAnian;#/
A. Total Coats:
Man-    Cost/Nan-!ear   Total Cost   % Foreign   Foreign
Years       US$            US$         Exchange     Cost US$
Overseas Training     49        12,000          588,OOO       100         588,ooo
Local Training       111         1,800          200,000        20          4o,ooo
Total                                       788,000        80         628,000
B. Schedule:
-________________---Y E A R-_______________
1976       1977         1978         1979          1980
-----------------------   ul     _------------------------------
Overseas Training    24,000      108,000      156,000      156,000      144,000
Looal Training       27,000       40,000       60,000       41,000       32,000
Total            51,000      148,000      216,000      197,000      176,000
1/ Based on Annex 4, Table 2.



ANNEX 5
APPENDIX
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Equipment List
1.        The following lists of equipment to be purchased by BAKOSURTANAL
under the project have been prepared for estimation purposes, and are pre-
sented only as a guide to future procurement. Equipment requirements have
been grouped into various categories which correspond both to distinct work
processes and to the various workshops to be set up in the headquarters
complex to be constructed under the project.
2.        Estimates for printing and photogrammetric materials are based
on projected base-mapping, charting, thematic mapping, and resource eval-
uation requirements.
3.        Costs for imported equipment have been estimated on a cif basis.



ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Equi1pment List : Suamwry
Category                                      Local         Foreign        Total
___ ____ --US$-------
1.  Office Farniture                          125,000         25,000       150,000
2.  Printing Equipment and Materials
(Table 7)                                           525,000        525,000
3. Imagery Interpretation Laboratory
(Table 8)                              10,000       700,000        710)000
4.  Data Bank (Table 9)                        25,0o0        135,000       160,000
5. Cartographic Equipment
(Table 10)                                3,000        92,000         95,000
6. Photogrammetric Equipment and
Materials (Table 11)                     20,000     1,180,000      1,200,000
183,000     2,657,000      2,840,000
Local Handling, Transport, and
Import Charges                            820000                       820,
1,003,000     2,657,000      3,660,000



ANNEX 5
Table 7
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Equipment List: Printing Equipment and Materials
Equipment                                                 US $
1. Rotary Press (4-color offset)                               142,000
2.  Photocomposer Diatype                                       11,000
3.  Printing Down Frame (Xenon Light)                           12,000
4. Platemaker                                                    9 000
5. Paper Cutter                                                  9,000
6. Developing Unit                                               6,000
7. Drum-type Dryer                                               5,00
8. Stitching Machine                                             2,000
9. Densitometer                                                  10ooo
10. Layout Table                                                  2,000
11. Scribing Rings                                                1,000
12. Miscellaneous Equipment                                      10,000
210,000
Materials
1. Retarding Brushes and Ink, Stripping Film,
Scribecote, etc.                                        115,000
2.  Paper, Printing Ink, Film, Developer
Chemicals, and Plates                                   200,000
Total                            525,000



ANNEXt e
Table s
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Equipment List: Imagery Interpretation and Training Equipment
Item                                               Quantity       US $
1. Imagery Interpretation Instrument -                      1         65D,003
2.  Mirror Stereoscope                                      5          4i,ooo
3.  Transfer Scope, with Table                              2         13,000
4. Diazo Reprodaction System                                1          5,000
5.  Stereo/Mono Microscope                                  1          6,000
6.  Photointerpretation Field Eit                          12          2,000
7.  Pocket Stereoscope                                      3          1,000
8.  Projector                                               1          5,000
9.  Light Table                                                        5,000
10.  Layout Table                                            3          1,000
U:.  Flat Map File                                           3          1,000
12.  Small Vertical File                                     4          1,000
13.  Cabinet                                                10          1,000
14.  Miscellaneous Equipment                                           15,000
Total                      710,000
1/  A standard maintenance contract is included in the purchase
price of this item.



ANNE 5
Table 9
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Equipment list : Data Bank
Item                                 Quantity                 US $
1.   String Digitizer                              3                   45,000
2.   Matrix Plotter                                1                   25,000
3.   Cabinets                                     15                    2,000
4.  Flat Map File                                 40                   36,000
5.  Tube Map File                                 15                    2,000
6.  Vertical File                                 20                   18,000
7.  Light Table                                    5                    7,000
8.   Mirror Stereoscope                            1                    1,000
9.  Fhrniture                                    L.S.                  20,000
10. Miscellaneous Equipment                                             4,000
Total                                       160,000



NN EX 5
Ta'" e D
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Equipment List: Cartographic Ecquipment
Item                                           Quantity         Us $
1. Large Cartographic Process Camera                   1           68,ooc0
2, Photocomposer                                      1             3,000
3.  Transparency Copy Machine                         1             1,000
4. Diazo Copier                                       1               5O0
5. Dry Mount Press                                    1             1,00o
6.  Wax Coater                                        1               500
7.  Camera                                            1               500
8. Drafting Table                                     8             5,000
9.  Light Table                                      10             7,000
10.  Scribing Set                                     20             1,000
11.  Supply Cabinet                                    6             1J,00
12.  Meter Bar                                          4            1$00
13.  Miscellaneous Sanll Hand Instruments             L.S.               __
Total                              95,o0)0



ANNEX 5
Table 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE MJRVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Ewlipment List : Photogrammetric Equipment and Materials
Equipment                                                      US-$
A. AERIAL TRIANGULATION
1.  Stereocomparator with standard accessories
and cornputer software .................one          70,000
2.  Point Transfer Device ..........***..... one     . 13,500
83,500
B.  ORTHOPHOTO SYSTEM
1.  B8S Aviograph, with modification for use
with Orthophoto projection unit, incl.
scanning system, coordinate pick-up and
triaxis locator plus tape recorder and
interface for tape recorder .......,. ,.four         272,800
2. Orthophoto projection unit for off-line
system, with tape reader plus formatters
and interface for tape reader..........one          132,700
405,500
C. DATA LOGGING AND PROCESSING
1. AK computer ...........................one i
I      130,000
2.  Tape recorders ................one 
3. Tape reader ..........  **     ......  .0Done
4. Mini-computer (24 x model) ............. one i
150,000
5.  Flatbed. plotter ........................ one
280,000



ANNEX 5
Table 11
Page 2
Equipment                                                       US$
D. PHOTO PROCESSING
1.  Log Printer ......................... ..two           46,ooo
2.  Versamate Processor ..        ...one                  28,000
3. Densitometer (transmission &
reflectance).... ........one            2,000
4.  Analytical Balance.....................one             2,000
5.  Contact printer   ..................,,,,one         10,000
6.  Automatic film processor ... o.... ......one           5,000
7. Drumtype dryer ..................oe. 5.,000
________      98,000
E. MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUMENTS
(Optical pantographs, mirror stereoscopes etc.)          46,ooo
46,000
F. MATERIALS
(Diapositive plates, miscellaneous photo-
grammetric materials)                                287,000
287,000
1,200,000



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Costs                    Proposed
Category                        Total 1/      Foreign             Loan2/
(S------(       $ million)------------
I.    Building
Construction                        1.9           0.9
Design and Supervision              0.2            -
Sub-Total                       2.1          0.9
Disbursements will be 65% of construction cost                       1.2
II.   Equipment and Imagery
Equipment                           4.8           3.5
Remote Sensor Imagery               o.4           o.4
Sub-Total                       5.2          3.9
Disbursements will be 100% of foreign expenditures, 95% of local
expenditures ex-factory, or 65% of imported items procured
locally                                                              3.9
III.  Large-Scale Aerial Photography
4.9          2.6
Disbursements will be 55% of total expenditures                      2.6
IV.   Technical Assistance and Training
Technical Assistance                1.3           1.2
Training                            1.2           0.8
Sub-Total                       2.5           2.0
Disbursements will be 100% of foreign expenditures                   2.0
V.    Technical Services
3.0          1.5
Disbursements will be 50% of total expenditures                     1.5



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Costs                  Proposed
Total 1/     Foreign             Loan2/
-----(us$ million)-
VI.   Unallocated3/
Physical Contingencies               2.3           2.1               1.8
(Administration & Overheads)3/       2.2           -
(Regional Resource Sarveys)j/       3.8
TOTAL                      26.0          13.0              13.0
1/ Expected price increases have been included in each cost category total
as follows:  Category I, US$0.5 million; Category II, US$1.2 million;
Category III, US$1.8 million; Category IV, US$0.7 million; Category V,
us$0.8 million; Category VI, US$2.0 million.
2/ Discrepancies in allocations between this table and Schedule 1 of the
Loan Agreement will be rectified during project implementation.
3/  The foreign exchange costs of Administration and Overheads (US$0.3 million)
and Regional Resource Surveys (US$0.7 million), against which disbursements
would not be made, have been included in the foreign cost figure for
physical contingencies.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Schedules of Expenditures and Disbursements
A. Schedule of Expenditures
Total
ItenrI/                        1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981    Cost
----------------(US$ million)-------------
I.   Part I Components
Building & Facilities              0.3   1.1   0.5    -       -     -       1.9
Equipment & Materials               0.2   1.2   1.5   1.0   0.4    -        4.3
Remote Sensor Imagery                -    0.1   0.1   0.1    -      -       0.3
Large-Scale Aerial Photography    0.1   0.5   1.0   1.0   0.9    -          3.5
Technical Services                 0.2   1.2   o.6   0.3   0.2    -         2.5
Technical Assistance                -    0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2    -         1.0
Training                           0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    -         0.9
Regional Resource Surveys          0.2   0.4   0.5   0.7   0.8   0.4        3.0
Administration & Overheads         0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.1        1.6
Base Cost Estimate            1.2   5.2   5.0   3.9   3.2   0.5    19.0
Expected Price Increases      0.1   1.0   1.6   1.8   2.1   0.4       7.0
Total                    1.3   6.2   6.6   5.7   5.3   0.9    26.0
II.  Part II Components
Small-Scale Aerial Photography      -    0.3   2.3   3.5   2.3    -         8.4
Geodetic Control                    -    0.2   1.7   2.4   0.6    -         4.9
Aerial Triangulation                 -     -     -    0.2   0.2    -        0.4
Technical Assistance                -    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    -         o.4
Training                             -    0.1   0.2   0.2   0.1    -        o.6
Base Cost Estimate             -    0.7   4.3   6.4   3.3    -       114.7
Excpected Price Increases      -    0.1   1.0   2.4   1.8    -        5.3
Total                     -    0.8   5.3   8.8   5.1    -       20.0
1/ Physical contingencies of 15% included in all items except for the Part I
technical assistance component.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOUJRCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
B. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                     US$ Million Equivalent
1977
1st
2nd                                     0.3
1978
1st-                                    1.5
2nd                                     3.2
1979
lst                                     5.3
2nd                                     7.9
1980
1st                                     9.5
2nd                                    10.8
1981
1st                                    12.1
2nd                                    12.9
1982
1st                                    13.0



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Building and Facilities
1.        Formal engagement of an architecture firm which would be respon-
sible for design of the new BAKOSURTANAL headquarters and site supervision
during construction would take place shortly after Loan signing, or about
April, 1976. Completion of the design work and the preparation of tender
documents suitable for international competitive bidding, the costs of which
would be borne by GOI, would occur about August, 1976. The contract would
then be awarded about September, 1976, enabling construction to commence in
October or November of that year. Building construction would be completed
by the end of 1978, although it is anticipated that the agency would be able
to occupy the new facilities before that date since the complex will cons4st
of four separate blocks, only two of which would be required to house agency
operations during the first few years.
Equipment and Materials
2.        Procurement of equipment and materials (including remote sensor
imagery) would begin shortly after Loan signing, about March, 1976, as there
is often a lag of between 12 and 18 months between ordering and delivery for
these items. Thus although installation of small, off-the-shelf items (e.g.,
small stereoscopes for aerial photography interpretation, map files, etc.)
in BAKOSURTANAL's present quarters 1/ would begin in May, 1976, large
directly imported items (e.g., printing press, imagery interpretation
instrument, process camera, plotters) would not begin to be delivered until
early 1977, with most of the equipment arriving in 1977 and 1978.
Large-Scale Aerial Photography
3.        Aerial photography is usually tendered on the basis of flight plans
expressed in terms of line distances. BAKOSURTANAL would begin to design
detailed flight plans for photography to assist resource survey and charting
operations in early 1976, with tender documents for the first contract
complete by July, 1976. The volume of large-scale photography would increase
substantially during 1977, when requirements for resource surveys and chart
1/   These small items would be moved to the new facilities when feasible.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
prociuction would reach rather high levels. The precise scheduling of large-
scale photography will to some degree depend on the installation of equip-
ment (paras 6 and 7) required to convert the photography into maps and
charts.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.        Expected timing of technical assistance services is given in
Annex 3, Appendix A. Schedules of manpower requirements and training
activities are given in Annex 4.
Small-Scale Aerial Photography
5.        The Australian photography operations in Sumatera are now sub-
stantially complete, although coverage of small areas may continue through
1976. It is anticipated that joint Australian/Indonesian geodetic control
field teams will begin operations in Irian Jaya in 1976 simulataneously with
the commencement of Australian photography of that region, and that basic
survey operations would be completed in 1979. For the remainder of the
country, small-scale aerial photography operations under Part II of the
project would begin by June, 1978 at the latest, although operations could
begin in mid-1976 if the current negotiations between Canada and Indonesia
proceed on schedule. When arrangements for financing this component are
finalized, but no later than June, 1977, BAKOSURTANAL would begin to design
detailed flight plans and the preparation of tender documents, with this
phase expected to be complete within a four-month period. Part II aerial
photography operations would begin in Kalimantan, the region where coverage
is most urgently required excluding those covered under the Australian
assistance program.
Mapping and Resource Survey Operations
6.        Base-map_ production.  Although base-map production is dependent on
small-scale aerial photography and geodetic control, the rate of implementa-
tion of the Part II operations is not expected to affect the starting date
for map production. The reason for this is that aerial photography and
geodetic control work for specific areas can be completed in a matter of
months, while no maps can be produced until a complete system of equipment is
procured and installed. Thus the starting date for BAKOSURTANAL base-map
production will depend on two factors:
(a)  The progress of construction of BAKOSURTAAIAL headquarters
(para 1), and
(b)  The delivery dates of photogrammetric, cartographic and
printing equipment (para 2).
7.        Since the ongoing Australian photography operations are expected
to continue through 1979, a backlog of about two years worth of aerial
photography would be ready for processing by the time the new facilities are
complete. This allows for considerable slippage of the Part II components



ANNEX 8
Page 3
with no adverse effect on the scheduled starting date of map production.
To accelerate the production operations, contract map production by
survey firms has been included in Part I of the project. In addition,
BAKOSURTANAL's procurement efforts immediately after Loan signing would be
concentrated on the acquisition of photogrammetric equipment, since plotting
and rectification of aerial photography precede reproduction and printing
operations in the map production process. Thus photogrammetric processing
of small-scale photography by BAKOSURTANAL could begin as early as July,
1977 1/ with the output of finished maps and charts commencing by September,
1978 at the latest.
8.        Regional resource surveys.  Regional resource surveys would begin
in early 1976 after final consultation with BAPPENAS on priority regions and
sectoral emphasis.
1/   Processing of thematic maps and charts based on large-scale photography
could begin simultaneously.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1976             1977              1978              1979 -            1980
I   I   I    I   I    I   I    I   I    I   I    I   I   I    I    I   I   I    l.
BUILDING AND FACILITIES:
DESIGN
TENDERING
CONSTRUCTION
U,
z      EQUIPMENT:
w
z        PROCUREMENT
0
0L
INSTALLATION
0
_      REMOTE SENSOR IMAGERY (Procurement)
Er     AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY (Large Scale)
TECHNICAL SERVICES
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TRAINING
F,,   AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY (1:100,000 scale)
= w     GEODETIC CONTROL
-z
1 z     AERIAL TRIANGULATION
o     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
BASE-MAP PRODUCTION:
Z    uz    CONTRACT
zc
< G         BAKOSURTANAL
Z  W u   CHART PRODUCTION
<a-
W LU Da   REGIONAL RESOURCE SURVEYS
World Bank-15502
(D






INDONESIA
NATIONAL RESOURCE SURVEY AND MAPPING PROJECT
BAKOSURTANAL ORGANIZATION CHART
CHARA                               LIASO
UTY FOR                                                                                     DllUTYR`E)R                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPUTY FOR
p  M                                                                                                   J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTEGR,ATED  ESOU RCE          SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT
BASEAPPNGMAPSCHARTS                                                           E VALU AT I ON
Project procue-et
MaP st-ndardleation -
Co rdia..t-
|   GEODESY    |  | PHOTOGRAMMETRY                   RP RAOCT                   HYDGRAPHIC                     CAR                             EATURALC             SOCIO - ECONOMIC RESOURCES              CATHEMOAP                  Maplaeralplioto Library
I                                    I                       I i   L   |  L   |   L     L     L  I SO                                  T,~ruog Office
gHorloonel control           Aerial Plotygrelpy           CARTOGRAPHY                 Hydrogr.phli and Oce-       Aeronactical rIof-              ECOLOGY                     INFRASTRUCTURE                      IMAGE ANALYSIS
Vertil control             Aerial Triangulation          a. Cartograhic/Geo.         anogrphic Survey            maton                              Cli                      . Tran-po-oation                  DIGITAL ANALYSIS
Gna-ity                    Photogranr Co-                   graphic Nonencla       Hydrorepbhic and            Cartography                      b VWgnytion                 I. Corounirarton                  PHOTO REPRODUCTION
Control daa renter            piletior                      euro                      Bathymetric Charring                                      , Soi                           Ig                             OMPILATION
b.Color separation-Oceanographic data-                                               LAND USE/CAPABILITY         ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                   COLOR SEPARATION
M AP REPRODUCTION             centerFORESTRY                                                                       DEMOGRAPHY
a Photo L,th.g,.phy                                                               GEOLOGY                      HEALTH AND NUTRITION
b Map p--nting                                                                       HYDROLOGY                   EDUCATION AND EMPLOYMENT
MARINE                    *AGRICULTURE, MINING, INDUSTRY, ETC.
DATA CENTER                DATA CENTER
Woltd B..k-9675






IBRD 11038
~~Bond3 41141               > ~TH4AfLAND                                                                      1*                                                                                          1311'                           d55                            vio-I
51DZ"6a"B   ;   '  w,  '  '  , '  \ pH p ,/PHPN                                                                                                                                                                                           INDONESIA
0  sMt  j  01 t D I B TST S W C S : -  -- IT TT:TNAIIONAL FOUNTJARI jS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tITkNAIOAL OV(5AI~
rr  12              dc           0                                               ,        14~t CAn  Se   BR NE          M     m lrd                                     *nl                                                                      CII  OR  03 5 
i   4  i\  44  2  _  t 0 X  ;-  184;4  qiv  C  (\r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X ; '\ $ '; i~~~~~~                                                                                1 IER
5'                          :                                   -.                                                                                                                                                                          -   1111 I   OI    1011 .  :E-
15                             M.Md.,~~~~~~~~~~~55
9 WE5T SUMAtfRAGA P f3   QRv  . .;            / n a ,'a                                                                                                                 ALMAC7 15 e , /7  SVMtA:RRup  POt J  ,  C'RMO   O   IYO   ios  3Di /c   Ocean4 srsA50A| 0rreaD
A1I0A                     T  A   N                                              2/1 SOltF           22 i                                                                              -- 1   joy-, .. .
,\                                                                                                                                       t YEPA  *   I  SIJLAWESI    '.2t-. AWE5'   4117I                                              -K
Banjsmqs                                   *IR.ndari~~~~ ~~~ 'V                                                                    -E-arli
20                                                                                      Oo3
tl,g  ~  ~      ~        J aS   ea                                        Ujn 1,l415
I EAST JAVA                       SB,GRU
3lNSEWST JAVA                   4iS PAS  ITAIMANTAN               ElBod.R                                k 
4 ECIAL CAPITAL                16SlC tZRIIMA NAllL                          -          51  1           SoBs                        IMAA~i  
TERRIORY' JAKARTA             17CNRLI A NIATAN               -1                                                 LRAIl            S.A-V                                                                                                                                             -
5 SPECIAL TERRITPRA k9~Tl- SlLkAwfsi                                                                                                      -Rin-1IS                                        JL1?
YOGYAKARTA                    TC CETRAL IULAWIEZI,
NORTH SV,MATERA               20SPT  -4TU~JLAWESI                                                            A111131 4141                                          ISlRO                                                             O        31      511       41       11 
V JAMS                            I NOIRTI  SULAINE-st                                                                                                                       !                                                11
9 WEST SUM4ATERIA                                                                    it, 5/fl                                       ~SaR4 a                                                                            1UANIE.P.
50 SOUTH  SUMAATERA               24WET    1I TNOAEAI20                                                                                                                                                                                              EO,I1R
II LAMPLING                       55 I 'T NU A TRIGOARA --,:                                                                                                                                                                                                           
1T SPECIAL TEREIfIORY AC?I        R6EAN  JA%R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
k                  low~~~~51                                                       IF' 11                           IS                             120'                            123'53                                                            1511                            'O.111,,.   ~  L



