Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2)437-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
QUIMICA DE PORTUGAL, E. P.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
FERTILIZER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
December 20, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977            November 1978
Currency Unit - Portuguese Escudo (Esc)       Esc
$1 - Esc 38.3                      46.5
Esc = $0.026                        0.021
Currency Unit - European Unit of Account (EUA)
$1 = 0.88 EUA                      0.77
EUA = $1.14                         1.30
(Floating Exchange Rate)
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report:  $1 = Esc 45.5
$1 = 1.24 EUA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AMPOP.              -             Amoniaco Portugues
CAN                 -             Calcium Ammonium Nitrate
CUF                 -             Companhia Uniao Fabril
EC                  -             European Communities
EFTA                -             European Free Trade Association
EIB                 -             European Investment Bank
EPG                 -             Empresa Petroquimica e Gas
ICB                 -             International Competitive
Bidding
IMF                 -             International Monetary Fund
NP                  -             Nitratos de Portugal
PETROGAL            -             Petroleos de Portugal
QUIMIGAL            -             Quimica de Portugal
SAPEC               -             S. A. de Produits et Engrais
Chimiques du Portugal
SPP                 -             Sociedade Portugues de
Petroquimica
tpd                 -             Metric tons per day
tpy                 -             Metric tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FERTILIZER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Quimica de Portugal, E.P. (QUIMIGAL)
Guarantor:        Republic of Portugal
Amount:           $58 million equivalent
Terms:            15 years, including three years of grace with interest
at 7.35 percent per annum. Guarantee fee of 2.65 percent
payable to Portugal.
Project
Description:    The project's objective is to ensure an adequate future
supply of fertilizers to meet the increasing needs of the
agricultural sector up to the late-1980s. For this purpose,
the project would help replace some obsolete plants, revamp
others and increase production capacity. It includes con-
struction of an ammonia plant with 900 metric tons capacity
per day, and two nitric acid plants, each with 360 metric
tons cap,acity per day; revamping of urea and ammonium nitrate
facilities; and a study of fertilizer use in Portugal. The
Government is determined to develop agriculture to its full
potential and is taking important measures (improved agricul-
tural credit, extension and training) to that end. However,
the very low fertilizer use should be improved in order to
render the other development measures fully effective. The
proposed project would help determine ways and means of
promoting efficient fertilizer use by farmers and would
ensure that the future fertilizer requirements are met at
competitive cost, without dependence on imports and free of
international market fluctuations. The productivity gains
which are expected to result from better fertilizer avail-
ability and use would help to increase total agricultural
output, reduce agricultural imports and improve farmers'
incomes. The project faces no special risks although the
returns depend on expected increases in fertilizer use.
Measures so far taken by the Government to develop the
agricult:ural sector have overcome (in 1978) the stagnation in
fertilizer use, and this trend is expected to continue.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i~i -
Estimated
Cost:                                  -------------$ millions------------
Local         Foreign
Currency       Exchange        Total
1.  Machinery, Equipment,
and Spare Parts                    26.1           73.2            99.3
2.  Engineering, Consultant
Services and Licenses               5.8            9.6            15.4
3.  Civil Works                           6.1             1.1            7.2
4.  Erection                             23.4             2.7           26.1
5.  Pre-operating and Start-
up Expenses                         1.3            1.6             2.9
Base Cost Estimate                 62.7           88.2           150.9
(in June 1978 dollars)
Physical Contingencies, (10%)         6.2            8.9            15.1
Price Contingencies, (21%)           11.2           17.9            29.1
Installed Cost                     80.1          115.0          195.1
Working Capital                       4.0            8.8            12.8
Interest during Construction         12.0           22.2            34.2
Financing Required                 96.1          146.0          242.1
Financing
Plan:
$ millions
Equity
Government of Portugal                          87.5
QUIMIGAL-Internal Cash                          15.8
Sub-total Equity                             103.3
Debt
IBRD                                            58.0
European Investment Bank                        21.0
Suppliers' Credit                               31.0
Private Commercial Banks                        28.8
Sub-total Debt                              138.8
Total Financing                                242.1



- iii1 -
Estimated
Disbursements:
-------------$ millions----------------
Bank FY    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                                 2.0      18.2    22.2    12.9        2.7
Cumulative                             2.0      20.2    42.4    55.3    58.0
Rate of Return:       At least 14 percent (paras. 46, 52)
Appraisal Report:   No. 2172-PO
Date:  December 11, 1978






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE: EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO QUIMICA DE PORTUGAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A FEFRTILIZER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Quimica de Portugal., E.P. (QUIMIGAL), with the guarantee of the
Republic of Portugal, for the equivalent of $58.0 million to help finance a
project for modernizing the fertilizer industry. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at 7.35 percent
per annum. The Government of Portugal would charge QUIMIGAL a guarantee and
administration fee of 2.65 percent per annum on the outstanding amount of
the Bank loan, bringing the cost of the loan to QUIMIGAL to 10 percent per
annum. The European Investment Bank (EIB) will provide a loan of 17 million
European Units of Account equivalent (about $21 million) for a term of 14
years, including three and a half years of grace at 8.9 percent annual
interest. In addition, suppliers' credits and commercial bank loans are being
sought.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "An Updating Report on the Portuguese
Economy" (No. 2214-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 8, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Between the revoLution of April 1974 and September 1975, Portugal's
political and economic systems were radically transformed. The colonies were
given their independence. There was movement towards a representative politi-
cal system which became a reality in mid-1976. There was nationalization of
the banks, insurance companies, power companies, major transportation agencies
and the large industrial groups. A comprehensive land reform was carried out
in the central and southern parts of the country. Trade union activity was
legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were established and
restraints were put on the highest salary levels. Prices were controlled.
Unemployment and social security benefits were increased. This was a very
different Portugal from two years earlier. There was a new relationship
between management and labor, and at first there was lack of discipline,
absenteeism and reduced productivity. Perhaps most important of all for the
longer term, the revoluticin created expectations of a substantial increase in
consumption. Such an increase did indeed take place initially, financed in
large part through the substantial foreign exchange reserves which had been
accumulated before 1974. During 1976 and 1977 there was an increasing aware-
ness that such growth of consumption could not be maintained without seriously
prejudicing the country's medium-term growth. The governments which have held
office since the elections of 1976 have had the unenviable task of persuading
the population to accept stagnant or declining levels of real consumption.



-2-
4.         In terms of the world economy and its impact on the domestic situa-
tion, the Portuguese revolution could not have found a time more likely
to complicate the adjustment and impede future growth than April 1974. The
oil price increase brought with it a substantial worsening of the country's
terms of trade, while the economic downturn in Western Europe meant the
slackening oX demand for Portugal's exports, less earnings from tourism and,
perhaps most serious of all, the levelling off of the demand for Portuguese
workers. The Portuguese labor force in Western Europe had risen to 745,000 by
1973. Combined with the growing colonial army this had meant very low levels
of open unemployment in Portugal. After 1974 the increase in the labor force
could no longer be absorbed by other European economies. To this was added
the once and for all impact of demobilization and the return of about 500,000
people from the colonies. At present about 320,000, or 7.7 percent of the labor
force, are unemployed. The Government's intervention during 1974-76 prevented
open unemployment from rising to even higher levels but created widespread
underemployment.
5.         This is the background against which the management of the Portuguese
economy in the years since the revolution must be viewed. In trying to des-
cribe the events of that period one is faced with the problem of portraying
sequentially a series of simultaneous adjustments. One should not however
infer a chain of causality from this. The convenient starting point is the
rapid increase in money wages which took place after the revolution. Sharp
increases in money wages combined with loss of productivity in many enter-
prises as labor relations deteriorated. The take-over of industrial and
commercial enterprises and farms was often associated with an initial loss of
production. In addition demand was sluggish for enterprises producing for
export or for domestic middle and upper-middle class consumption. The conse-
quence was that a large number of firms were in severe financial difficulties
and the government, rather than risk a spate of bankruptcies with associated
unemployment, used the nationalized banking system to provide liberal credit
facilities to these firms. The fiscal system was also used to provide direct
subsidies to public enterprises and to subsidize basic food items.
6.         The evidence is that, by end 1977, real consumption per capita rose
by about 10 percent over the 1973 level. In the context of virtually stag-
nant GDP per capita over the period (i.e. it kept pace with the 10 percent
increase in resident population which was due to returnees from the colonies
and natural growth in population, not compensated by emigration as in the
past), the increase in consumption was at the expense of domestic savings.
The increase in demand did not have a major impact on  production in the
short-run for a number of reasons. First, Portugal's structure of production
did not fit the new structure of demand, which was oriented towards items of
lower middle-class and working class consumption. Second, even in industries
operating at full capacity, entrepreneurs were reluctant to invest when such
investment meant hiring additional labor. Third, with the increase in popula-
tion came a proportionate increase in demand for food products, most of which
had to be imported because of sluggish agricultural growth. Fourth, the
availability of foreign exchange constituted a constraint for domestic produc-
tion, as restrictions were placed on the import of certain intermediate goods



- 3 -
at various points in time. As a consequence of these factors much of the
increase in demand showed up in the 23 percent per annum average rate of
inflation and/or in the increasing trade deficit.
7.         The expansion of domestic demand put severe pressure on the balance
of payments, which gradually began to loom as the dominant feature in the
economic policy mix. Portugal's export receipts (both goods and nonfactor
services such as tourism earnings) fell by about 30 percent in real terms
between 1973 and 1975. Thiere was a combination of factors which led to
this; the loss of the colonial markets, the recession in Western Europe, the
deterioration in Portugal's competitive position, lower production in some
industrial enterprises, and the diversion of some production to meet the
expansion in domestic demand. In addition there was a severe terms of trade
loss. As a consequence, the current account surplus of $350 million in 1973
turned to a deficit of $820 million in 1975, $1.25 billion in 1976 and $1.5
billion in 1977. It should be noted that it was the decline in exports and
the terms of trade loss which produced this effect, rather than any sharp in-
crease in imports which were only 6 percent above the 1973 level in real terms
by 1977. Sustaining deficits of this magnitude has meant the depletion of
Portugal's previously amp'Le foreign currency reserves, and substantial borrow-
ing against its gold reserves.
8.         The task that suaccessive governments in Portugal have faced is that
of reducing domestic demand and imports and increasing savings and exports.
There has been little or no disagreement on the need for such measures--the
art has lain in stabilizing at a pace which is politically realistic. It
should be recognized that the prevailing conditions in the country, especially
for the first two years after the revolution were not conducive to achieving
quick results. However, efforts in the right direction were initiated by the
first elected government of Portugal, but conditions remained difficult--the
expectations of the population were still high, and the principal sectors of
the economy were under the lingering effects of the radical political and
social changes of 1974 and 1975 (paras. 3 and 4). Numerous measures have been
introduced to reduce consumption--higher taxes, ceilings on increases in real
wages, rise in utility prices, reduction of price subsidies and relaxation of
price controls, etc.--but governments have not found themselves able to deny
to enterprises and agricultural cooperatives access to credit at levels which
have sustained the rate of employment, and which have largely negated the cuts
in other areas. Various direct methods have been used to try to improve the
balance of payments--depreciation of the escudo (by 62 percent between end
1973 and end 1977), surchrarges on imports, interest rate subsidies for exports,
etc.--but again these have had limiced impact in the face of buoyant domestic
demand. Obviously deficits at the 1977 level cannot be continued. The IMF
diagnosed the need for even more stringency, and in mid-1978, agreement was
reached on a stabilization program which would attempt to bring the deficit
down to $1 billion in the 12 months ending April 1979. This would imply
smaller GDP growth than in the last two years and the shaking out of the less
efficient units in the manufacturing sector as well, with some consequent
increase in unemployment. The estimates for 1978 now indicate that the
current account deficit will be about $1.2 billion and the GDP growth about
3.8 percent. The measures taken to achieve this included a 6.5 percent



devaluation and the continuation of the crawling peg depreciation of the
escudo over the period, and a 3 to 4 percentage point rise in interest rates.
There is some evidence that these measures are proving particularly effective
in reducing the very high rate of expansion of stocks of imported goods in
1977 which was brought about by the expectation of further devaluation and the
substantially negative level of real interest rates.
9.        The large current account deficit is in one sense a function of the
decline in the savings rate, but it can also be looked at as a consequence of
maintaining the level of investment at around 20 percent of GDP, in spite of
the savings decline. A high level of investment is crucial in the long run
to Portugal and ordinarily the maintenance of this level during a difficult
period such as the past four years would be a cause for satisfaction. The
composition of investment is disturbing however. Of net fixed investment a
large proportion is construction not related to industrial expansion; some of
this is for the Sines port and new town. Much of the rest of the investment
is related to the heavy industry which is being located at Sines.
10.       If the Portuguese economy is to support even a modest growth in pri-
vate consumption in the medium-term and come to terms with the very serious
unemployment problem, increased investment and output will be necessary in two
major areas: export-oriented manufacturing and agriculture. The restructur-
ing of the Portuguese economy requires a vast improvement in agricultural
productivity and the rapid recovery and expansion of exports. The investments
which have been undertaken in the past four years have not for the most part
contributed much to the achievement of these objectives. The present stabili-
zation program, which is to end in April 1979, will only have an impact on
improving Portugal's long-term prospects to the extent that increased public
savings can be built into the fiscal system, and insofar as the composition
of public investment addresses important structural problems. Through its
stabilization program Portugal is buying time till both private and public
sectors have the confidence to invest in new capacity for export and till the
institutional changes have taken place which can improve Portugal's agricul-
tural production. It is not realistic to think that much progress can be
made towards these objectives by the end of April 1979. It will take at
least until mid-1980 before a modest beginning in reflating the economy can
be made. By that time private investment can also be expected to gather
momentum. Over the long-term (1980-85), Portugal should be able to achieve
and sustain a growth rate of about 5.5 percent per annum.
11.       Agricultural growth in the past has been sluggish and this has
necessitated increasing imports of agricultural products. The problem in
agriculture is not only one of investment. It is a matter of correcting
deficiencies inherited from the period prior to the revolution, of reorganiz-
ing the ministry and strengthening its inadequate field services. Extension
is weak in terms of personnel and of the links with the research effort on the
one hand and small farmers and cooperatives on the other. Credit to the rural
sector has neither been adequate nor production-oriented. Fertilizer applica-
tion rate is low. Investment alone will achieve little without substantial
advances in these other areas as well. Measures towards improving the condi-
tions in the agricultural sector are underway (para. 30).



- 5 -
12.       The industrial sector will obviously remain the leading sector
in Portugal's future growth.  Here the problem is that export of manufactures
is mainly done by the private sector which has been reluctant to invest for
reasons quite unrelated to the profitability of exports. These include the
general uncertainty and the difficulties of dismissing labor once it has been
hired on a permanent basis. The Government has made a substantial effort to
restore the confidence of the private sector. Thus provision has been made
for compensation for nationalized assets, the law on dismissal has been eased,
and profitability has been improved through lowering real wages in 1977 and
1978, depreciating the exchange rate and providing special incentives. The
private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the economic growth
rate foreseen for the 1980s. Restoring private sector confidence may require
further incentives and clear evidence of a Government commitment to private
initiative. For the rest, it is partly a matter of time, as increasing con-
fidence develops in the stability of democratic government in Portugal, and
as a new relationship evolves between management and labor similar to that in
other Western European countries. The Government could perhaps do more to try
to orient the manufacturing units in the public sector in the direction of
exporting from their present capacity, and investing in new capacity for
export production.
13.       The focus of economic management in Portugal during the past four
years has understandably been on the short-term. The time is long overdue to
analyze the medium- and long-term needs. At the aggregate level, the domestic
savings rate needs to be restored to levels which permit adequate sustainable
rates of investment without crippling balance of payments deficits. At the
sectoral level, there is a need to restructure investment in a way that will
permit rapid growth overall and a slow resumption in the growth of private
consumption. A medium-term plan was prepared in 1977 but was not finalized
due to political difficulties. Government changes since that time have pre-
vented agreement being reached on the framework for a new medium-term plan;
work in that direction is expected to re-commence under the new Government.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
14.       The Bank has an important role to play in Portugal at present
in helping the Government: focus on the implications of short-term actions for
medium-term development, in making the Government more aware of the role that
institutions play in the growth process, and in assisting the Government in
evolving a set of functioning institutions. It will continue to assist the
government in its efforts to restructure the economy, and to bring about the
long overdue institutional reforms which will be necessary preconditions to
rapid and more balanced development in the future.
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and for
long-term project loans. With goLd as collateral, the Bank of Portugal
has obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank
for International Settlement and European central banks. The short-term debt
of the Bank of Portugal and of the commercial banks amounted to about $2.1
billion at the end of 1977. In addition, the IMF has so far extended about



- 6 -
$340 million as gold tranches, oil facilities, compensatory financing, and
two credit tranches. The Bank has so far approved $241 million in six loans
during FY1976-78. In addition, the EC, EIB, EFTA, as well as bilateral agen-
cies have committed significant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary
aid and for long-term projects. In 1977, Portugal received $750 million in
medium- and ' ng-term aid commitments from 14 countries, mainly the US,
Germany and Japan, as balance of payments support, which are now being dis-
bursed.  Commercial banks were relatively inactive in Portugal until May 1978,
because of the Government's prolonged negotiations with the IMF and the
general uncertainty. But recently, the Government was able to attract two
medium-term loans from consortia of commercial banks in the Euro-currency
market for a total of $450 million at an interest rate of 1 percent over LIBOR
for a term of 7 years including 4 years grace, to restructure its short-term
debt. Portugal will continue to require sizeable external inflows for the
investment necessary to restructure its economy, while it lowers its balance
of payments deficit in the future. The multilateral lenders, and in particular
the EC/EIB, EFTA and the World Bank, will have to continue to play a vital
role in meeting Portgual's capital requirements.
16.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term
debt (disbursed and outstanding) was about $1,304 million at end 1977, with a
debt service ratio (debt service/earnings from exports, non-factor services
and workers' remittances) of 3.7 percent. Total (public and private) medium-
and long-term external debt reached about $2,230 million at end 1977 with a
debt service ratio of about 11.9 percent. There still remains a gold stock
of about 690 metric tons (June 1978) valued at about $4.8 billion, at a price
of $200 per ounce, serving as a safety net, of which about one-third is
pledged for short-term borrowings by the central bank. In the future,
Portugal's total medium- and long-term debt service ratio will be around 17
percent during the 1978-85 period. However, the Government has already begun
to make efforts to restructure its short-term foreign debt so as to improve
the maturity profile (see para. 15). In the light of these facts, of the
stabilization efforts made by the Government, and of the prospects for growth,
Portugal can be considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
17.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with govern-
ment priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
try. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three thermal and two
hydropower projects, which were successfully completed to meet the country's
increasing power requirements.
18.       The turbulent events of the more recent past and the ensuing dis-
location of human resources and the transition to an open political system
have revealed social and economic weaknesses which are unusual for a high-
income developing country. The recent governments in Portugal were aware of
these weaknesses; after some degree of social and political peace and stability
was achieved, they addressed themselves to restructuring the economy and the



social services, and to carrying out the wide institutional reforms required
for that purpose. The dual task of tackling the short-term problems and
restructuring the economy over the medium-term for integration within Europe
will require far-reaching efforts from the government and the people of
Portugal. Meanwhile, to overcome pressing short-term economic problems and to
eliminate the structural deficiencies without postponing developmental efforts,
Portugal will continue to require sizeable external assistance, both financial
and technical, in the years ahead.
19.       The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs both through identifica-
tion, preparation and financing of projects and through economic and sector
work. The proposed loan would finance the Bank's twelfth project in that
country, the seventh since the resumption of lending in 1976. At that time,
demand for power had outstripped supply once again and a power project was
selected as the Bank's first new operation in this familiar sector.  A loan to
finance a portion of Electricidade de Portugal's investment program for
1976-86 was approved on June 24, 1976. Five further operations followed: a
loan for a highway project, involving maintenance and construction, preparation
of a transport master plan, a railway rehabilitation plan and a road investment
plan, approved on October 19, 1976; a loan to Banco de Fomento Nacional for
industrial finance was approved May 24, 1977; a loan for the Lisbon Region
Water Supply Project was approved on March 28, 1978; a loan for an education
project was approved on jApril 27, 1978 and a loan for an agricultural and
fisheries credit project was approved on June 27, 1978. Total Bank loans now
amount to $298.5 million. Disbursements under the initial loans (FY1976 and
FY1977) are low due mainly to the Portuguese agencies lack of experience with
Bank procedures and slow action on procurement. These difficulties are now
being overcome. Under tlhe FY1976 and FY1977 loans procurement is accelerat-
ing, and under the subsequent loans it is proceeding satisfactorily. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of November 30, 1978 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.        In an intensive parallel effort at the macro-economic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the government in reviewing policy and management
issues. The economic missions and the discussion of their reports have pro-
vided a basis for a review of policy at the macro-economic level. Reviews
of the water supply (together with WHO) and the education sectors were carried
out and were discussed with the government in March 1977. Agriculture and
manufacturing export industries were also studied, and were reviewed with the
government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufacturing Export Indus-
tries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 13, 1978, and the report entitled "Portugal - Agricultural Survey"
(No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 24, 1978.
21.        In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned above,
agriculture and industry have been identified as the concentration areas for
Bank lending. In the industrial sector there is need for major structural
improvements such as merging small firms, eliminating uneconomic enterprises
and modernizing equipment. The proposed project is an example of such
improvements in the fertilizer subsector. Similar improvements are being



- 8 -
studied for the metal-working and textile subsectors. Another important
constraint is insufficient financial and technical support to small and
medium-size enterprises. A recently appraised small and medium industry (SMI)
project would address this need. The importance of developing the industrial
sector cannot be over-emphasized, since this sector will be the main force in
the Portuguese economy, primarily for the urgently needed expor' expansion and
competitiveness in the European common market but also for efficient import
substitution. The main objectives of Bank lending to industry are structural
reform, export promotion and employment creation (or preservation). In agri-
culture, a sector beset with major problems, there is considerable scope for
stepping up growth. The major constraints are the still unsettled land tenure
conditions, institutional weaknesses and a shortage of trained technicians
for promoting improved technologies. The Bank has assisted the Government in
creating a sound agricultural credit institution and the FY78 Agricultural and
Fisheries Credit loan is designed to make this institution fully operational.
A recently appraised irrigation project would extend the Bank's assistance
to irrigated agriculture, with an emphasis on institutional aspects. Future
Bank operations in this sector are likely to foster forestry, livestock and
fisheries development. The trained manpower requirements of the sector would
be addressed through proposed agricultural projects as well as through a
recently identified second education project.
22.       Thus, essentially through its involvement in industry and agricul-
ture, the Bank would continue its efforts aimed at:
(i) easing the immediate foreign exchange constraint;
(ii) improving the longer-term balance of payments situation
by supporting projects aimed at export expansion and
selected import substitution;
(iii) assisting public investment in previously neglected
social areas; and
(iv) supporting government efforts toward the institutional
and policy reforms needed to restructure the economy.
23.       Sizeable and timely long-term external assistance is crucial if
Portugal is to deal successfully with the problems that confront its economy.
It is the Bank's objective to contribute to this effort while providing advice
on developing the new institutions and reforming old ones, an institutional
effort which is indispensable if Portugal is to achieve its overall long-term
economic objectives.
PART III - INDUSTRY AND THE FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR
24.       Manufacturing industry played a central role in the rapid growth
of the Portuguese economy during 1960-1973. Investment levels were high and
output grew at about 11 percent per annum, accounting for 35 percent of the



- 9 -
GDP towards the end of that period. Industry employed 25 percent of the
labor force and produced 60 percent of merchandise exports. It enjoyed
financial stability, easy, access to credit at low interest rates, sheltered
markets in Portugal's colonies, and it benefitted from very low wage rates (by
European comparison), tightly controlled by the State. The events in the
aftermath of the 1974 revolution coincided with the worldwide economic reces-
sion and deeply affected manufacturing enterprises--as they did -he other
sectors of the economy (paras. 3 and 4). Both output and exports declined,
and there was little private investment in capacity expansion. In some cases
pressing maintenance and modernization needs were deferred. The proposed
fertilizer modernization project is an example of such postponements; some of
its components are to be implemented several years after they were identified.
25.       During 1974 and 1975, large industrial groups were nationalized,
and the nationalization of the banking system and insurance companies gave
the State varying degrees of participation in many private sector enterprises.
This was a contributing factor to the loss of investor confidence. The
Government adopted remedial measures in 1976 and 1977 and announced that
there would be no further nationalizations. It enacted a compensation law for
nationalized assets; however, the timing and amount of compensation are in the
process of being determined on a case-by-case basis. Several assistance
measures were directed to private enterprises in financial difficulty.
Profitability was improved in exporting and manufacturing enterprises through
lowering real wages, depreciating the exchange rate and providing special
fiscal incentives. And, finally, a law was passed delineating the boundaries
of the private and public sectors. Private enterprises can engage in all
industries except armaments, oil refining, petrochemicals, fertilizer, iron,
steel and cement. With time, as confidence of the private sector is restored,
private investment and exports should increase. To help the large number of
small- and medium-size enterprises which dominate Portugal's industrial
sector, there is now an Institute for Assistance to Small- and Medium-Size
Enterprises which the Bank plans to support under a proposed SMI project
(para. 21). The Governmient is also in the process of developing a number of
industrial estates as part of its strategy to remove regional imbalances and
to create new industrial employment. The Bank would direct its assistance
both to larger industries, for restructuring and modernization. and to small-
and medium-size enterprises for financial support as well as technical and
technological assistance. The main objectives of this assistance are:
improving the balance of payments, creating or safeguarding employment,
introducing modern management methods, and training qualified managers and
technicians, all essential for competitive performance. The Bank's help in
reviewing the manufacturing export industries (para 20) led to a series of
measures designed to encourage exports, employment creation, and investments.
The ongoing FY77 development finance operation supports new investments, and
further progress towards the above mentioned targets should be achieved under
future industrial and DFC operations (para 21). The proposed project would
help the country to restructure and modernize its fertilizer industry and to
meet increasing fertilizer demand from local sources.



- 10 -
The Fertilizer Sub-sector
26.       Until 1977, Portugal's fertilizer industry consisted of five com-
panies: (i) Companhia Uniao Fabril (CUF), (ii) Amoniaco Portugues S.A.R.L.
(AMPOR), (iii) Nitratos de Portugal S.A.R.L. (NP), (iv) Sociedade Portugues
de Petroquimica S.A.R.L. (SPP), and (v) S.A. de Produits et Engrais Chimiques
du Portugal S.A.R.L. (SAPEC). Four of these five companies, which were owned
by local private shareholders until 1974, were nationalized during 1975, as
was most other heavy industry in Portugal. In January 1978, CUF, AMPOR and
NP were formally merged to form a national fertilizer company, Quimica de
Portugal (QUIMIGAL). SPP, being the sole supplier of town gas to Lisbon, has
been incorporated into the energy sector and renamed Empresa Petroquimica e
Gas (EPG), although it will continue to supply some ammonia to QUIMIGAL for
the foreseeable future. SAPEC, which is partly foreign owned, was not merged
into QUIMIGAL and will remain in private hands.
27.        The Portuguese fertilizer industry is essentially oriented towards
the domestic market. Since 1970, about 85 percent of domestic production has
been directed to domestic consumption though some nitrogenous fertilizers
have been exported in most years at a level of 30,000-40,000 nutrient tons.
While Portugal has downstream facilities to produce finished fertilizers
(e.g., ammonium nitrate) to partly satisfy the expected increases in the
domestic demand for nitrogenous fertilizers in the early 1980s, its capacity
to produce intermediate goods (ammonia and nitric acid) is much more limited.
28.       Portugal currently has three ammonia plants, one operated by QUIMIGAL
and two by EPG. The older of the EPG ammonia plants, erected in 1961, has a
nominal capacity of 70,000 tpy, and is planned for shut down in 1982 due to
high operating costs, technical problems and ecological reasons. The QUIMIGAL/
CUF ammonia plant (70,000 tpy nominal capacity) is due for closure in 1982
because, besides being obsolete and thus expensive, it is becoming physically
dangerous to operate. Thus, by 1982, the larger EPG unit (160,000 tpy nominal
capacity) will be the only domestic ammonia source. By 1985, domestic urea
requirements both for fertilizer and for industrial uses are expected to reach
74,000 tons. In 1977, CUF's existing plant (14 years old) produced 50,000
tons of urea. This plant, the only urea facility in Portugal, is in poor
physical condition and could not meet expected demand with present capacity.
The proposed project provides for the revamping of the plant; its capacity
would be increased during revamping. The nitric acid capacity is also unsatis-
factory. Both the CUF and NP fertilizer plants of QUIMIGAL suffer from
production imbalances caused by nitric acid shortages. The ammonium nitrate
facilities at QUIMIGAL's CUF, AMPOR and NP complexes are in a relatively good
state. However, the QUIMIGAL/CUF plant (100,000 tpy capacity) requires
modifications to extend its life, reduce pollution problems and better balance
its capacity with other plants.
29.       Agriculture and Fertilizer Demand.  The performance of the agricul-
tural sector so far has been disappointing.  Agricultural output grew only by
0.9 percent per annum during the 1953 to 1968 period, and virtually stagnated
between 1968 and 1973.  Agricultural yields have been very low.  As total GDP
rose, so did personal incomes and aggregate demand for food. But agricultural



- 11 -
and fisheries production almost stagnated in real terms, so that food imports
have soared and agricultural exports faltered, thus diverting scarce foreign
exchange from capital formation. The agricultural trade deficit rose from
an average Esc. 5.5 billion in 1972-73 to Esc. 13.7 billion in 1975. Aside
from the paucity of good quality land, several major institutional constraints
have prevent I agriculture from performing its potentially key role in the
economy. First, the agrarian structure that prevailed until 1975 restricted
access to resources and kept a large proportion of the rural population poor
and powerless. Second, the institutional role of the Government in the sector
was essentially limited to regulating markets and administering subsidies.
The need for government action to provide a broad range of technical and
financial services to the sector was not appreciated until after the revolu-
tion, and even at present there is little in terms of manpower and experience
upon which to build viable programs in the short term. Third, an elaborate
system of administered prices and subsidies has led to distortions in resource
allocation that have deeply affected agriculture. In the south of Portugal,
the revolution triggered major reforms in land distribution and tenure. In
1975, largely under the impetus of organized labor, 480 estates with a total
of over one million ha, had been occupied and transformed into production
cooperatives. After many ad hoc attempts to regulate agrarian reform by legis-
lation, a more comprehensive agrarian reform law was enacted in August 1977,
which stipulated restitution of some land to previous owners. However,
implementation of the law is progressing slowly due to social and political
frictions.
30.       The Governmen,t is aware of these constraints and is implementing
measures to overcome them; the main ones are to: (i) continue work in the
area of land tenure and intensify land use; (ii) strengthen the agricultural
institutions by organizing and staffing the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries, including its departments or affiliated institutions in charge of
regional services, research, extension, and credit, and introducing a much
needed element of decentralization; (iii) accelerate technological moderniza-
tion, especially through increased use of fertilizers and improved seeds;
(iv) increase the level of investments in the sector; and (v) review and
correct the present price and subsidy policies, which have acted as barriers
against achieving higher rural incomes and efficient resource allocation.
31.       Fertilizer consumption in Portugal per unit of arable land has long
been one of the lowest among European countries, including those with similar
land, climate and agricultural conditions. Nitrogen has been the most impor-
tant fertilizer nutrienit, accounting for about 55 percent of the total fertil-
izer use. The present nitrogen/phosphorus/potassium (NPK) consumption ratio
of 1:0.6:0.2 in Portugal is agronomically satisfactory. Increased use of
nitrogen would have to be accompanied by corresponding increases in other
fertilizers to achieve optimum results. In 1978, Portugal used on average 42
kg/ha of nitrogen, 22 kg/ha of phosphate, and 10 kg/ha of potash. Nitrogenous
fertilizer consumption. after increasing at a relatively high rate of 7.4
percent per annum from the early 1950s to 1972, substantially slowed down to
3.8 percent per annum during 1972-78, due to the substantial increases in
fertilizer prices experienced since 1972, the uncertainty created by land
reform following the revolution, and the adverse weather conditions particu-
larly in 1977.  In the 1978 agricultural year, nitrogen consumption was 11.9



- 12 -
percent higher than in the previous year which indicates the growth rates pos-
sible under more stable conditions.
32.        Nevertheless, the relatively high growth rates of over 7 percent in
the past (1950-72) would be difficult to sustain in the future in view of the
remaining constraints in the agricultural sector. The full impact of recent
government policies will be felt only after some time and, therefore, nitrogen
consumption is unlikely to reach the historical rapid growth rate within the
next few years. The rate of growth is conservatively estimated at 1.7 percent
per annum for the 1978-80 period, and 6 percent per annum between 1980-85,
as the new government policies start having an impact. After 1985, the rate
of growth of nitrogen consumption is expected to drop to 4 percent per annum
as nitrogen use approaches higher levels.
33.        In addition to nitrogenous fertilizers, ammonia and its derivatives
are utilized as intermediary products in chemical industries such as plastics,
paints and explosives in Portugal. Industrial consumption of ammonia (25,000
tons in 1977) is expected to triple by 1985 as a number of new industrial
plants using ammonia as a feedstock come on stream. The projections of future
demand and supply of ammonia--assuming continued operation of EPG's larger
ammonia plant--show that when the new QUIMIGAL ammonia plant comes on stream
in 1982, there will be some excess capacity temporarily; this excess is
dictated by optimum plant design and would reach a peak in 1984, when 65,000
tons of ammonia (16.1 percent of supply) will be available for conversion into
nitrogenous fertilizer for additional internal demand or for spot exports in
small quantities. The excess supply will rapidly decline and after 1987, no
further exports will be made unless further capacity were to be installed.
The need for future investments would be reviewed by the Government in con-
sultation with the Bank (Section 3.02(a) of the Guarantee Agreement). Over
the 1982-87 period, exports would represent about 9.8 percent of supply in
terms of equivalent of ammonia. Since the projected quantities available for
export, based on relatively conservative domestic market estimates, are well
below the level of export sales in the past, no difficulty is anticipated in
finding overseas markets. The adequate rate of return for the project indi-
cates that, on the basis of expected international prices for feedstocks and
nitrogenous fertilizers and anticipated capital and operating costs for the
project, it should be more advantageous for the country to produce domes-
tically the proposed fertilizers rather than to import them. The economic
advantage in local production comes about because: (i) a well-developed
infrastructure already exists not only in the country as a whole but also
on the project site; since the project represents an expansion of existing
facilities, expenditures on site preparation and offsites such as power
generation, water supply, transportation, are much lower than would be the
case in a green field site; (ii) the company possesses a capable and expe-
rienced management and labor force; as a result, several capital cost items,
such as construction implementation and supervision, start-up and training
costs, will be kept to a minimum; (iii) the project will enjoy a significant
transportation advantage for local consumption over imported materials. The
fact that fuel is being used instead of other feedstocks like natural gas (the
country has no natural gas), is not a handicap since the lower capital and
operating costs of the project due to the above reasons would make the project



- 13 -
competitive by offsetting the economic advantage of the use of natural gas in
projects elsewhere (most new projects in Western Europe are also likely to be
based on fuel oil).
34.        Marketing and Distribution.  Even before the January 1978 merger,
the fertilizer companies had achieved some degree of coordination in their
sales and distribution efforts. After the merger, QUIMIGAL implemented a plan
to integrate all sales and marketing activities under a single management. As
there are no independent bulk blending facilities in Portugal, QUIMIGAL carries
out all fertilizer blending and sells final products for direct use by farmers.
At present, the bulk of QUIMIGAL's fertilizer distribution is carried out by
about 3,000 independent dealers, who receive fertilizers principally from
QUIMIGAL's warehouses in the field, though a small portion of sales is also
effected from the plants., QUIMIGAL possesses 75 warehouses, spread throughout
the country, with a total capacity of 135,000 tons, equal to about two months
of storage. As a result of a detailed study of future distribution require-
ments, the company is planning to add about 100,000 tons to its warehousing
capacity, in order to serve its markets more efficiently. This additional
storage capacity, estimated to cost $10 million, is to be financed from inter-
nally generated funds. QUIMIGAL has agreed to complete by September 1979 a
review of its fertilizer warehousing needs and to construct sufficient ware-
housing capacity to handle the output of the project (Section 4.03 of the Loan
Agreement). Detailed planning is currently being carried out by QUIMIGAL to
ensure that the marketing, distribution and manufacturing functions will be
closely linked.
35.        Fertilizer Prices and Subsidies.  The ex-factory price currently
received by the fertilizer producers for calcium ammonium nitrate, the nitro-
genous fertilizer most widely used in Portugal, is lower than international
prices by about 4 percenlt at the exchange rate of Esc 45.5 per US dollar or
about 17 percent at a sh adow exchange rate of Esc 52.3 per US dollar. Even on
the basis of current depressed international prices, the domestic fertilizer
companies are not directly subsidized. However, since 1974 the governments
have subsidized the farmers to encourage the use of fertilizers. ln the
current agricultural year, the fertilizer prices paid by farmers were on
average 30 percent below the railhead fertilizer prices, which are determined
by the Government on the basis of the cost of operation and distribution and
an adequate return on capital. The return on capital was set at 23 percent
in 1978. The subsidy to farmers is compensated directly to the fer-tilizer
producers by the Government; the total amount due to all fertilizer firms in
1977 was $48 million. Fuel-oil, the feedstock for the new ammonia plant, is
priced in the domestic market at about the same level as the international
market price. Therefore, it is likely that QUIMIGAL will be able to maintain
parity between its ex-factory prices of nitrogenous fertilizers and those
prevailing in Western Europe under expected efficient operation without need
for subsidies on its raw materials. The Government is considering phasing out
subsidies for agricultural inputs and outputs, including fertilizer, but
recognizes that such phasing out should be gradual to avoid a negative impact
on fertilizer use and agricultural output. The Government's strategy regarding
farmers' fertilizer subsidies will be reviewed at the completion of a fertilizer



- 14 -
study under the proposed project. The Government has indicated that if the
fertilizer study concludes that fertilizer subsidies to the farmer could be
eliminated without adverse effects on consumption, the Government would
consider phasing out subsidies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
36.       The project was identified in June 1977; preparation assistance was
provided to the fertilizer companies and the Government from September 1977
through January 1978. The project was appraised in February, April and June
1978. Negotiations took place in Washington from November 13 to 17. The
Portuguese delegation was led by Mr. J. Serrao from the Bank of Portugal, and
included representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, and QUIMIGAL.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Portugal: Fertilizer Modernization Project"
(No. 2172-PO) dated December 11, 1978, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and project are listed in
the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
37.       While the Portuguese fertilizer industry is currently capable of
meeting internal demand, some old production facilities are economically
obsolete or approaching the end of their useful lives and others have physi-
cally deteriorated due to inadequate maintenance and lack of re-equipment
investments as an aftermath of recent difficult years. Poor plant conditions
have given rise to shortages in intermediary products, which in turn prevented
capacity utilization of the downstream facilities, thus constraining fertil-
izer supply. This problem, if not solved, would become more severe with the
expected demand increases over the next decade. It is essential, therefore,
to revamp the present facilities and to install extra capacity if an adequate
supply from national sources is to be maintained to meet future domestic
needs. Another objective of the proposed loan is to assist the Government
with a study of the ways and means of providing efficient fertilizer use. The
Government's and the Bank's overall goal is to increase agricultural produc-
tivity and to develop the long-neglected agricultural sector to its full
potential. In this connection better fertilizer use would complement ongoing
efforts in other areas such as land tenure, credit, irrigation, research and
extension.
Project Description
38.       The proposed project includes (i) construction of a 900 tpd ammonia
plant; (ii) construction of two 360 tpd nitric acid plants; (iii) revamping
of a urea plant and increasing its capacity from 150 to 250 tpd; (iv)
revamping of ammonium nitrate facilities; and (v) a study of fertilizer use.
The new ammonia plant will replace two obsolete 15-year old naphtha-based 210



- 15 -
tpd ammonia plants which are scheduled for closure. It will provide ammonia
for the expanded urea and ammonium nitrate production in QUIMIGAL and meet the
increasing ammonia requirements of other fertilizer and chemical plants in
Portugal. The nitric acid plants will replace two old plants now in opera-
tion, to improve efficiency, reduce pollution and increase production to meet
expanded demand. The urea plant will be revamped to reduce unit ammonia and
steam consumption, and to increase production. The revamping of the ammonium
nitrate plant includes the replacement of the present ammonium nitrate solu-
tion plant of 190 tpd. capacity by a new larger plant of 375 tpd. capac-
ity, and the provision of other key equipment, and additional storage. The
fertilizer study would identify the constraints to fertilizer use and propose
measures to remove them, help determine optimal application of fertilizers
by crop and region, evaluate the influence of other complementary factors in
the productivity of fertilizer use, and determine any improvements needed
in fertilizer marketing, sales, pricing, and distribution sytems to support
increased levels of fertilizer consumption. It would be coordinated by the
Secretariat of State for Planning and carried out by consultants. An under-
standing has been reached on the outlines of the terms of reference and the
timetable for the execution of the study. The Government has agreed that it
will review the findings; of the study with the Bank with a view to determining
the action necessary to increase the demand for, and improve marketing and
distribution of, fertilizers (Section 3.02(b) of the Guarantee Agreement).
39.        The ammonia plant, one of the nitric acid plants and the ammonium
nitrate and urea plants revamping components will be part of the QUIMIGAL
facilities at Lavradio/Barreiro, on the southern bank of the River Tagus,
about 15 km from Lisbon. The other nitric acid plant will be located within
the QUIMIGAL facilities at Alverca, on the northern bank of the River Tagus,
about 20 km from Lisbon (see map).
Implementation
40.        The project will be implemented and operated by QUIMIGAL's Fertil-
izer and Pesticides Division. QUIMIGAL is a fully government-owned enter-
prise established on January 1, 1978. According to the 1976 Law of Public
Enterprises, under whiclh it operates, QUIMIGAL has legal personality and
enjoys administrative and financial autonomy. A Management Council of seven
members, chaired by the President of the company, sets policies and makes the
major business decisions. The Government appoints the members of the Council
which reports to the Ministry of Industry and Technology. QUIMIGAL has seven
decentralized manufacturing and two service divisions, each operating as an
independent profit center. The Fertilizer and Pesticides Division, which
accounts for 45 percent of total sales, is the largest among them. The other
principal divisions are vegetable oils and soap, animal feed, chemical and
metal products, and textiles. While smooth integration of nationalized com-
panies presented a delicate task, QUIMIGAL management has handled this problem
quite well. Integration of shipping and production scheduling functions as
well as accounting and financial control systems are proceeding satisfactorily
and would be completed by June 30, 1979. QUIMIGAL's management is competent
and capable of running current and planned operations successfully. Expe-
rienced and capable project managers have been assigned to handle the project;



- 16 -
they will be assisted by experienced process engineers, and qualified con-
sultant engineers to be approved by the Bank. In addition, QUIMIGAL will
reinforce its Fertilizer and Pesticides Division with staff from its Plant
Construction Division, in which a new department has been formed to handle
construction of the project and procurement. The arrangements for project
implementation are satisfactory.
41.       Mechanical completion of the project is scheduled to take place by
March 1982. Various plants under the project would enter into commercial
production between the beginning of 1981 and mid-1982. The engineers required
for normal operations will come partly from the project staff and partly from
the existing plants. The skilled and semi-skilled technicians will be selected
from about 1,200 chemical operators now working at Lavradio/Barreiro and
Alverca plants. They will be trained both within and outside Portugal. The
engineering contracts will include provisions for necessary training of
QUIMIGAL staff outside Portugal. To ensure that all of the project's train-
ing needs are adequately covered in time, QUIMIGAL will complete a detailed
training plan before June 30, 1980, and will subsequently implement it in
time for project start-up (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement). The project,
therefore, is expected to have an adequately experienced team available in
time for taking over the operation and maintenance of the new facilities.
Adequate and timely supply of petroleum products, ammonia, power and water to
project plants would be essential for their efficient operation.  Ihe Govern-
ment and QUIMIGAL have agreed to take the necessary measures to ensure such
supplies (Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement and Sections 3.05 and 4.02
of the Loan Agreement). QUIMIGAL would issue bids on ammonia plant compressors
after it has made arrangements to obtain the inputs required for these com-
pressors.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
42.       The total project financing required, including physical and price
contingencies, working capital and interest during construction, is estimated
at $242.1 million, of which $146 million would be in foreign exchange. The
working capital requirement is $12.8 million and interest during construction
is $34.2 million. All imported equipment and materials for the project would
be exempt from import duties and direct taxes. The base cost estimates are
in June 1978 prices. The ammonia plant, including associated facilities, is
expected to cost $187 million (77 percent); the urea revamping $10 million
(4 percent); the Lavradio nitric acid/ammonium nitrate plants $24 million
(10 percent) and the Alverca nitric acid plant $21 million (9 percent).
43.       The financing plan envisages that 42.6 percent of the financing
required (or $103.3 million) will be provided by the Government and QUIMIGAL
as equity and the balance by loans from the World Bank ($58 million), European
Investment Bank (17 million European Units of Account, or about $21 million),
suppliers credits ($31 million) and commercial banks ($28.8 million). The Bank
loan would be made to QUIMIGAL with the Government's guarantee. It would be for
15 years, including 3 years of grace, at an annual interest rate of 7.35 per-
cent. In addition, QUIMIGAL would pay the Government a guarantee and admin-
istration fee of 2.65 percent and bear the foreign exchange risk. QUIMIGAL
would make available $200,000 of the loan proceeds to the Government for the
fertilizer study.  The EIB loan would be for 14 years, including 3.5 years



- 17 -
grace at 8.9 percent annual interest. It would be used to finance the Alverca
nitric acid plant and miscellaneous equipment in the ammonia plant. The
Government has initiated the necessary legislative action to increase QUIMIGAL's
equity. The effectiveness conditions of the EIB loan would have to be fulfilled
as a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Bank loan (Section 7.01(b) of
the Loan Agreement). QUIMIGAL would contract commercial loans by June 30, 1979
(Section 6.01(b)(i), (C) of the Loan Agreement). The balance of the financing
(or $31 million) would be secured through suppliers credits to finance imported
equipment from an agreed list of goods. QUIMIGAL has received financing pro-
posals from some suppliers and commercial banks covering the above mentioned
amounts.
Financial Position of QUIMIGAL
44.       The three companies (Compania Uniao Fabril (CUF), Amoniaco Portugues
(AMPOR) and Nitratos de Portugal (NP)), which in 1978 formed QUIMIGAL, real-
ized combined total net sales averaging $250 million (of which fertilizer and
pesticides accounted for $114 million) per year during the period 1975-78.
Sales figures showed minor fluctuations from year to year except in 1978 when
sales went up 9 percent compared with the previous year. The combined results
of the three companies showed a net loss of about $22 million in 1975 which
was progressively reduced to $4.3 million in 1977. A net profit of $3.8
million is expected for 1978. In the recent past, the financial position has
remained tight mainly dtue to substantial losses incurred by CUF, the larger
company, during 1974-77. CUF's unfavorable financial performance resulted
from three basic causes, apart from the economic recession which affected the
entire industry: first, price controls and continued operation of inefficient
plants in the domestic and industrial textiles division, and the chemicals and
metals divisions; seconcl, divestiture, at the time of nationalization, of many
of CUF's more profitable operations (e.g. shipping, banking, insurance, etc.)
which earlier had partly offset the effect of less profitable operations; and
third, a sharp increase in the company's operating costs. This was due to
substantially increased labor costs as a result of Government's wage policies
which affected the entire economy in the wake of the revolution. CUF financed
these losses and maintained its liquidity with heavy short-term borrowings;
interest charges on these borrowings aggravated losses. In 1977, the finan-
cial performance of all three companies improved, mainly due to cost reduc-
tions and Government stabilization measures. While NP's profit in 1977 could
only partly compensate for the losses incurred by CUF and AMPOR, QUIMIGAL's
consolidated cash flow was positive. Although estimates for 1978 indicate
that QUIMIGAL will show a profit, in the long term, restoring the company to
profitable operations requires further measures. For this purpose, QUIMIGAL
and the Government have agreed to review prices on some of the company's
products and to identify the precise reasons for low profitability or losses
in a number of operations other than fertilizers. Subsequently, the Govern-
ment and QUIMIGAL would determine before March 31, 1980, and, thereafter,
take any action necessary to enable non-fertilizer divisions to earn adequate
returns on capital (Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a) of the
Guarantee Agreement). The Government has also agreed to maintain its pricing
policy regarding fertilizer inputs and products to enable QUIMIGAL to maintain
its sound financial position in fertilizers under efficient operation (Section
3.03(b) of the Guarantee Agreement).



- 18 -
45.        The company's debt/equity ratio (42:58 in 1978) is satisfactory and
financing arrangements made for new projects indicate that it will continue to
remain so. QUIMICAL has agreed not to exceed a debt/equity ratio of 60:40
(Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement). The current asset/liability position
would a_.o be satisfactory following the resolution of the two major problems
that caused liquidity problems in 1977--delays in compensations against fertil-
.ze; subsidies to farmers and the size of short-term borrowings. The Govern-
ment agreed to make prompt payments of the compensations in the future (Section
3.03(c) of the Guarantee Agreement). QUIMIGAL, in consultation with the Bank,
arranged to reduce its short-term debts. The company has successfully nego-
tiated with its creditors conversion of about Escudos 2.25 billion of short-
term debt into medium-term debt. These arrangements would be finalized as a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01(a) of the Loan
Agreement). QUIMIGAL's financial position is expected to improve significantly
in future years, essentially with the contribution of the fertilizer division.
QUIMIGAL's net income on a consolidated basis is expected to increase from
$3.8 million or 1 percent of total revenues in 1978 to $85.9 million or 10
percent of total revenues in 1986. Debt service coverage for QUIMIGAL as a
whole is expected to improve from 1.3 in 1978 to 2.7 in 1986. Following the
liquidity improvements mentioned above, the minimum current ratio for the
company as a whole would not fall below 1.45 and the maximum debt/equity ratio
would not exceed 44:56. The fertilizer division, which is managed as an
independent profit center, would also have an adequate financial performance.
Income (before tax) of the fertilizer division is expected to increase from
$13.7 million or 11 percent of total revenues in 1978 to $73.7 million or 21
percent of total revenues in 1986. The minimum current ratio of the fertilizer
division is expected to be about 1.7 and the highest debt/equity position to be
49:51.
46.        The financial rate of return for the project is estimated at 15-18
percent before taxes and 11-13 percent after taxes depending on the price
assumptions below. The rate of return is sensitive to changes in revenues;
however, significant deviations from forecasts are not expected. A 10 percent
drop in revenues would reduce the financial rate of return before taxes to 13
percent, conversely a 10 percent increase in revenues would yield a 18-22
percent return. An understanding has been reached with the Government that
the Government's price setting methods would be maintained (para. 35) and that
the Government would continue with its overall policy of relating ex-factory
fertilizer prices with those ruling in Western European countries. It is also
understood that the Government intends to consult with the Bank prior to
making any significant changes in its fertilizer pricing policy. By 1985
ammonia prices in Portugal are expected to be $193-$221/ton (in constant 1978
prices), bagged urea will be $193-$221/ton and domestic prices of ammonium
nitrate will be $131-$149/ton for 26 percent nutrient content and $161-$183/
ton for 33.5 percent nutrient content. These prices are based on the projec-
tions that 1985 FOB Northwest Europe price for bulk urea and ammonia would be
$163-$191/ton. The analysis assumes an average real increase in domestic
fertilizer prices of 3-4 percent per year between 1978-85, depending on the
product, with most of the growth occurring in the later years of that period.



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       The proceeds from the Bank loan, to be disbursed over the period
1979-1982, would finance (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for engineer-
ing licenses and supervision services procured internationally ($9.8 million,
$5,000-7,000 per man month); (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 100
percent of local expenditures ex-factory, for machinery equipment and spares
procured through international competitive bidding ($48.0 million), (imported
items costing $200,000 or less and up to a maximum total of $5 million and,
proprietary and critical items not exceeding $5 million would be procured
through prudent international shopping); and (c) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for foreign consultants and 80 percent of total expenditures
for local consultants (estimated to be the equivalent of the foreign exchange
cost of foreign consultants) for the fertilizer study, about 30 man months at
$5,000-7,000 per man month (a total of $200,000). Items to be financed by
EIB from a separate list would be procured through international competitive
bidding as would items to be financed by commercial banks. Agreed items to be
financed through suppliers credits would be procured through selective bidding.
Suppliers would propose financing arrangements and QUIMIGAL would seek offers
from as many suppliers as possible.
48.       It is expected that awards amounting to $12.5 million, will go to
Portuguese suppliers af-ter ICB; local suppliers would be entitled to a margin
of preference of 15 percent or relevant import duties, whichever is lower.
The Bank loan is expected to be completely disbursed by December 31, 1982.
Advance contracting up to $5.0 million is envisaged to ensure timely execution
of plant construction and rapid action on the fertilizer study. Retroactive
financing up to $2.5 million is recommended to cover the consultant and
engineering contracts ($1.5 million), and some long-delivery items ($1.0
million) for expenditures after September 1, 1978.
49.       QUIMIGAL has issued invitations to bid for engineering services for
the ammonia and nitric acid plants to two lists of prequalified engineering
contractors. The invitations to bid and list of suppliers were approved by
the Bank. QUIMIGAL will finance the local engineering, civil works and
erection contracts with Portuguese funds. The civil works and erection
contractors will be selected after competitive bidding among local contractors
who are cost competitive. The capabilities available with these contractors
are considered adequate for the timely and efficient completion of these
works. Proposed arrangements for local procurement are considered satisfactory.
Benefits and Risks
50.       As a result of long years of neglect, the agricultural sector is
characterized by low productivity, land tenure problems, declining rural
population and employment, distorted resource allocation, lack of up-to-date
technology and very inadequate extension services. Agricultural imports have
been rapidly increasing and in a period of tight balance of payments position,
they impose a large net burden on the import bill. The Government is deter-
mined to develop agriculture to its full potential and is taking important



- 20 -
measures to that end. However, the very low fertilizer use should be improved
in order to render the other development measures fully effective. The pro-
posed project would help determine ways and means of promoting efficient
fertilizer use by farmers and would ensure that the future fertilizer require-
ments are met at competitive cost, without dependence on imports and free of
international market fluctuations. The productivity gains which are expected
to result from better fertilizer availability and use would help increase
total agricultural output, reduce agricultural imports and improve farmers'
incomes.
51.        In addition to improving the fertilizer use in agriculture, the
project will have important institution building effects. Through the project,
the Bank will be working closely, from the beginning, with the newly created
QUIMIGAL and, thus, will participate in the healthy development of the company
and in the Government's efforts to rationalize Portugal's fertilizer subsector.
Through the involvement of local engineering firms in project implementation,
a significant transfer of technology will take place to facilitate the execu-
tion of future chemical projects in Portugal. Annual net foreign exchange
earnings due to the project, after principal and interest payments on the
foreign loans, are estimated at $40 million in constant 1978 dollars. Thus,
the project will have a major positive impact on the Portuguese economy.
52.       Economic Rate of Return.  The composite economic rate of return
for the Project as a whole is calculated at 14 to 18 percent depending on
price assumptions (para 46). In calculating the economic return economic
costs higher than financial costs have been assumed for certain utilities.
The economic rates of return for the individual project components have been
calculated as follows: 13-17 percent for the ammonia plant (cost $187 million),
13-16 percent for the urea revamping (cost $10 million), 13-16 percent for the
Lavradio/Barreiro nitric acid/ammonium nitrate plant (cost $24 million), and
16-20 percent for the Alverca nitric acid/ammonium nitrate plant (cost $21
million). These return calculations are based on the exchange rate of Esc.
45.5 = $1. If a shadow exchange rate of Esc. 52.3 = $1 is used to take into
account the effect of distortions in the foreign trade incentive system, for
example import duties and restrictions (such as import surcharges), the
economic return for the project increases to 16-20 percent. The results of
the sensitivity analysis on economic rates of return indicate that the project
is highly sensitive to changes in revenues; however, the probability of
significant changes in product prices and sales volume is low.
53.       The project does not face any major risks; however, there are some
uncertainties relating to the evolution of fertilizer demand. The expected
increases in fertilizer demand would depend on successful implementation of
agricultural policies, and a smooth transition from the present subsidized
system to a purely commercial one which will rely on the price mechanism.
As regards the former issue, the Government's policies have been encouraging.
Progress is underway in many areas such as credit, institutional reorganiza-
tion, land tenure, research and extension. Implementation of measures has
been slow in some areas, but is expected to accelerate as practical problems
are overcome. As regards the price/subsidy system, the proposed fertilizer
study will assist the Government in selecting the right measures to encourage



- 21 -
fertilizer demand and in phasing out subsidies smoothly. In view of the
agreements reached with QUIMIGAL and the Government concerning marketing
arrangements and the fertilizer study, and in view of the Government's efforts
in the agricultural sector, the uncertainties associated with the project are
considered acceptable.
54.        Plant design, construction and operations would comply with environ-
mental and safety standards acceptable to the Bank. (Sections 3.01 and
4.01(g) of the Loan Agreement.)
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and QUIMIGAL, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
56.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. As special conditions for the effectiveness of the proposed
loan, QUIMIGAL would refinance at least Esc. 2.25 billion of its short-term
debt to increase maturities and furnish the Bank evidence that its current
assets are at least 1.3 times its current liabilities, and fulfill the condi-
tions of effectiveness of the EIB loan (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement).
57.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 20, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                         Page   I  of  5
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. X.)                    PORTUGAL                        -  OST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             92.1                                                     SAME         SAMlE     NEXT HIGHERt
AGRICULTURAL      41.7                                  YD1ST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCO4E        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION ft   GROUP jd    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  380.0        990.0    1850.0            1898.8     1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSIMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      382.0        754.0     983.0           1869.3      1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR                                       *
(MILLIONS)                          9.0          9.1       98
URBAN POPULATION (PERCSNT OF TOTAL) 22.7          26.9      28.8             43.0        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        98.0         99.0      106.0            81.4        27.6         55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    186.0         211.0     235.0            135.2       116.4         83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          29.2         28.5      27.3             26.2        34.8         40.0
15-64 YRS.                          62.8         61.8      62.5             63.4        56.0         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    8.0          9.7      10.2              9.9         5.7          3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               0.7 /f       0.1 /f    0.4              0.8         1.6          2.9
URBAN                               1.4          1.8       2.4              2.2         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.0         21.1       19.2            19.2        27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.8         10.4       10.5              9.0        9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.6          1.5        1.5              1.3        1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..            38.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              76.2        100.0      82.9            113.7       103.8        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   107.0        118.0     118.0 /g         127.4       110.4        113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           77.0         85.0      85.0 La          92.8        77.7         89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        33.0         40.0         ..            39.3        22.2         48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       5.2 /h       3.4        2.2              1.6        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.3          66.1      68.7             68.9        63.0         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            77.5         58.0       37.9            34.5        38.2         22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             68.3        67.7        83.0
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             74.3        83.5       100.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..            64.4        41.5        36.5
ACCESS TO EXCREITA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..            94.0        70.3        57.8
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             94.0        90.7        99.3
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..            93.0        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1180.0       1120.0     900.0            686.5      1310.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1430.0       1090.0     870.0            339.0       849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOITAL                            190.0        170.0     170.0            178.0       275.4       325.8
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            70.0       129.9       250.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..           1770.0       965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         10.0      12.0             15.3        18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.9          3.7        *-               *-         3.9
URBAN                               4.0           ..        ..
RURAL                               3.9           ..        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.1          0.8        ..              0.9         0.9
URBAN                               1.0           ..        ..              0.8         0.8
RURAL                               1.1           ..        ..              1.0         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              40.5         64.2        ..             57.5       59.2
URBAN                              88.5           ..        ..             99.0        78.0
RURAL                              27.4           ..        ..               ..        12.5



- 23 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PORTUGAL                                                   Li
-  OST RECENT ESTIMTE
SANE        SAME;    NEXT  IGRER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                131.0         98.0     116.0            108.0        97.6        104.1
FEMALE               129.0        96.0       94.0             99.5       87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0         57.0      49.0 /i          62.8        47.8         44.7
FEMALE                16.0        51.0         ..             63.6       42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 46.0          32.0      40.0             28.2        22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0         34.0      27.0             24.9        25.4         30.6
SECONDARY                          19.0         17.0      14.0             17.3        24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        62.0         71.0         ..            88.3        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0         54.0      98.0             90.4        32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         95.0        142.0     174.0            199.0       201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         40.0      66.0            132.5        97.9        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  63.0         84.0      91.0             97.1        70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           3.0       4.1               6.6        4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)           ..          ..    4100.0 1i
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     ..           ..      25.5             32.4        17.4         26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                ..           ..      32.5 1i          32.8        38.4         25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   ..           ..      33.7 /1
PARTICIPATION NATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..       44.6            39.1        33.7         40.1
MALE                                    ..          ..       56.4            56.7        50.8         55.8
FEMALE                                  ..          ..      32.3             29.7        12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                ..           ..        0.9              0.9        1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        56.1 /k.l 56.3 /k.m        31.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          79.4 /1k 1 78.6 /km        59.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         6.2 7tj  7.3 /km           4.0         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         20.6 /k.l 21.4 /k.m        12.9        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..           194.9       157.9.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..          .           295.1       448.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..     454.0 **         309.2       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            18.2        23.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      20.0             24.2        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weiRhted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Europe;  /d   Upper Middle Inicome ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  le  Nigh Income  (over $2500 per capita, 1976);
If Due to emigration, populiation growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /R  Av. 1969-71;
/h  1965;   /i  disrupted enrollment due to political unrest;   14  Estimates based on inquiry of eployment
conducted by Institute of National Statistics;   1k   Highest 25X and 50% and lowest 25% and 50% of households;
L1  1968;  /m  1973-74.
*  Revised  population  figure  for  1977  is  9.7  million,                                          Slptember. 1978
** This figure is for 1976. The estimate for 1977 is $480.0



- 24 -                                                        Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                     Page   3  of    5
NU:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weightad geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and tie most
populated country is saoh group.  Coverage of oountris amoag the indinatora depends on  -vailhbility of data and in nut uniform    Due to look of data,
group verages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty aro
simple populotion-osighted geometric eans without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                            Populaticon per hospital bed - total. urban. and rurul - Population (totu1,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                      urban, and rural) divided by their respertice number of hospital beds
Aaricultursl - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general and spenialiood hospital and rt-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are emtablisheonto permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                           at least one physician.   Establishments providing principally  -cutodial
core are nmt included. Rural hospitas., hovever, include health and nodi-
ClP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                .al renters not permanently unaffed by a physioiun (but by a  ediial a-
calculated by ssme conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);             sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient a-coomodotion end
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            ptovide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admisniono to or di-charaeu
ENERCY COhSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogramo of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Average sile of household (persoon per household) - total, urban. and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A household contsts of a g-oup of individuals who share liviog quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger =dy or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimateo; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                         thb   ^ ---ehold for utatistical purposes.   Stutisticol definitionc of houoe-
Urban population (percent of total) - Eatio of urban to total popula-                   hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                 Averaae number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Aserago nm-
of data among countrias.                                                              bar of per.o..  per room in a11  urban, and rural occupied c-ve-nri.n.I
Population density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Delliogs ecolude non-porn....nt utructcres und
Per  sq. k.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                 unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access no elecuricity (percent of dwelliogs) - ttol., urban  and coral -
Per s. k. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quorters an percentuge
only.                                                                                 of total,  urhan o   nd rural dwellingu re-pootivly.
Population age ctructure opercent) - Children (0-14 years), vorking-age
(15-64 yoars), and retired (61 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
feat populntion.                                                                   Adusted enrollment ratios
Population grooth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primary school - total, and feeale - Total and fealoe enrollmont of all uges
growth rates of ntotl and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                     at the primary level an percentages of respootively ptioary uchool-uss
1960-y0, and 1970-75                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjuoted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                    different lengths of primary education; for -cuntrien with uni-ersal odu-
mid-year popul-tion; ten-year arinbmeniu averages ending  in 1960 and                 cation enrollment may e ceed 100 percent  ince cone pupilo arc bhoo or
1970 and five-year average ending in l975 for moot recent estimate.                    bove the official scheol age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                 SOcondary ochool - total, Ind female - Computnd an abhov; Loundury edua-
year population; ton-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least four yearn of opproved primary instruction; pru-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                        video genersi vo-ational  or teacher treining instruccions for pupils
Croo  reproduction rae- Average   number    of daug h      ters   ewomn will heat       unually of 12  no 17 yearu of ago crrespondenecoursesace generally
in her normal -nproductivo period if she experiences preent age-                      excluded.
specific fertility rates; Usually five-year averages ending in 196D,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondar)y  - V o.ationl institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clods technical, industril, of other prograus which operate independently
Felily plannino - acceptors, annuai (thousands) - Anmual number of                      or an depart.en t  of secondary institution.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Popil-t.caher ratio - orimary. and seoondary - Torol students enrolled n1
planning program.                                                                     primary and  -econdary levels divided by numbern of teuchoro In the corre-
Family olaunin  - ueru  (percent of married women) - Percentage of                      oponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who une birtb-oontrol             Adult literacy rote (percent) - Literate udults (able to read and write) es
devices to all married women in sane age group,                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD ANo NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food production porno .it. (1970-100) - lodex number of per                 Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passengec cars comprise motor camr
capita annual production  of ail fond nommodities.                                  seating les  than eight pecuono; oxnlude- anbhlaoco-, hoarses and military
Per caito supply of calories (percent of resuirements) - Computed from                vehicles
energy equiva.pt of net food suppliea  available in country per -npit             REadio receiveru (per thousand population) - All type. of receivers for radio
per day.  Available suppli.s comprise domestic production, imports les.             broadcants to general public per thousand of population; excludes unliconsnd
exports, and chonges in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, ueeds,            receivern in countrien and in years when rtgistration uf radio onto was in
qu.n titio  used in food procesoing, and losses in distribution.  Re-               effect; dotn for recent yeors may non be ocnparbtle sinceomon countries
quirements were estimated by PAO based on physioogical needs for nor-              aholishod licensing
mal activity and health considering environaental temperature, body                TV receiveru (per thousand populatin) - TV receivers for broadcaut to gecevai
weights, age and ass dlscributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand populatiom; eocludes unlicensed TV r.coivers in cou-
cent for wano an household level,                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV sets wau in effect.
Par ..pita supplv of protein (Am.mo Pxr day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand oppulution) - Shown oh at aerageuircula-
capita net supply of food par day.  Net supply of food is defined us                  tiou of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for al  countries established by USDA provide for               cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is -cuidered to
a minimum  lloeancn   of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams              bh  "daily" if it appears at leost four ti.eo a week.
of animal nd pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal proteip.            Cinema annu-a  attendance per cupita per year -Saod onbh  number of tlcketa
These standards are lower thas those of 75 grois of total protein and                 sold during the yur, including admiunions  to drivs-ic rin.mas and mobilr
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                   unitu.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capina Protein suoply from anImal and pulse - Protein supply of food            iEPLOTnENT
derived from animals and puloen in grams per day.                                  Tota labor force (thou-ands) - Etonomically actise persons.  including arced
Child (gains 1-4) mortality rote (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-              forosc and u        yempleyod but excludinR housewies, studnts,  tc.   Defini-
end in age group 1-4 yearn, to children in this age group.                            tions in various countries are not conparoble
Female (percent) - Female labor force an percentage uf total labor force.
hEALTh                                                                                  rlcsllure (p.rceut) - Labor force io farming, fore.rny, h-oting and fishing
Life empectancy at birth (yours) - Average nmuber of years of life                      as perce.tag. of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1972,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in minieg, cos.truction, maufacttring and
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas an percentage of total labor force
Infant mortality rate (par thounand) - Annual deaths of ipfants under                Participation rate (percent) - total  male, und female - Total,  mle, end
one year of age par thou-and live birhts                                              femslo Ibor forceas pnrcentageo  of their veupecc1ie populaoions
Access to safe water (percent of ropulatio) - total, urban, and rural -                  These ore IL's adjueted participacion  rates rofiectini u-Se
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   strucrure of the popcul tisa        otrs   rend.
oafs water supply (includen treated surface waters or Untreated but                Econom.i depende-cy ratio - Ratio uf population under 1I  and 65 and user tI
uncontaminated water such ag  that from protected boreholen, springs,                  the labhr force is  ge group of 15-64 vcru.
and sanitary wella) as peroentagea of their reapective populations.
In an urban area a public founttin or utandpoot located not sore                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 metere from a house may be considered as being within rea-                Percentage of private income (both in o.sh and kind) rocoived by richeut 5
sonable access of that house.  In rcral areas re...nable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent  anod poor-st 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the houaehold do not have to                   of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetohing thi family's
water needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to encreo  disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and               Estimated absolute pov.rty income level (USS per capitol - urban aid rural
rural - Nuber of people (total, urban, end rural) served by secrets                      Absolute poverty income level iv that income level below which a ominial
dioposal as percentages of their reapeotive popalatioon.   locreta                     nutritionally adequate diet plus ..n.ntia1 non-fuod requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal,  ith or without                      affordable.
treatment, of human sctrent  and waate-waer by winter-borne systems                Estimated relative poverty income losel (055 per capita) - urban aid rura1 -
or the use of pit privies and nimilar installatios.                                    Relanise poverty incomo level is that inrcoo  level lean  than one-third
Poopoulioo per physioion - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita p-rsonal income of the contry.
phyolciaon  qualified fro.a   medicol school at university level.                   Estimated population below poverty  Income loveS (percent) - ur -an ud rural
Populotion per -ursing person - Population divided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rura1)  who are either "ahbulutr pour' or
practicing male and female graduate nuraso, practical ocrses, and                      "relativc  poor" whichever is greater.
asstant nurses
Econonic aod Scilal Da-a Disiolin
tEconomic Analysis and J'vsjoctioru Deparivenr



-25-
Peg. 4 of S
(Aaeota  n Mllin,  f &1511o.er)
1973         1974          1975          1976          1977         197g          1974     1975      1976    1977      1978         1973   1977   1977   1978
11A718DML ACC00U75                                 (A--I Dots *t 1975  rioss sod Eohse. Dote of 81 - e... 25.555                                Ao,o,l Groth itt.                          As Percent of GDP
Gross Domestic Product               ~~~~~~15,233  15,345        14,773        16,117               17,00  7667           0.7    -3.7        9.1      3.6      3.8         96.9  100.0  100.4  100.0
Gains E    Teems  flCondo                         306           385,          -           -104           -77          -137                                                           3.2    -       -0.4   -0.8
Gros   Osio  booe                              15,739       13,725        14,77 73      16,013        16,953        17,330         -0.1    -6.1       8.4      5.9       3.4       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
toports (tool. lIPS)                               6,170         6,464         4.739        3,567         6,296         6,195          4.8   -26.7      17.5    13.1    -1.6           39.2   32.0   37.1   351.3
Eoo-ro  (tool. 0703                                3.962         3.340         2.999         3.U39       ..LZ4          3.505        -13. 7   -13.2       4.0      6.0      0.0         25.1   19.6   19.1   20.0
R..-.r. Gop                                        2,209         3,124         1,839         2,529        3,051         5,690                                                           14.1   12.5   19.0   15.3
Cotetaptioo Enpodttures                           12,723        14,032        14.203        13,303       16,021        16,433         10.3      1.2       9.1      3.3      2.6         90.9   96.1   94.0   93.7
loves~t Eopoditore (tool. Stocks)                  4,719         4,432         2,409         3.143        4,050         3,924         -6.1   -45.7      30.5    28.8    -3.1            30.0   18.3   23.9   22.4
Dl-moelo Ooviog%7k                                 2,010         1,309           570           614           999        1,234        -47.9   -56.4        7.7    62.7    23.3           13.9     3.9     5.9    7.0
NMo ..Ioe  oovioc                                  4,0153        2,620         1,593         1,465         2.034          ..         -35.4   -39.2    -9.0    40.2           ..         23.9   10.8   12 .1
IMEoRtWDSE   AEA -                                                              t    t        t i.As Por-ot of Totol
Capitol goods                                      421           761           565          607           693          ..20.5   14.5   14.0
Isot-,sdiato goodo                               1,769         2,630        2.185         2,431         3,043          ..59.4   56.1   60.3
Fool, cod -cototd -t-oiolo                         163           370           621          696           743                                                                         6  .0   16.0   15.0
Coosaotoood                                        436           673           522           393          4035                                                                       15.1   13.4    9.p7   __
ToteS Orecl. lapseto  (elf.)        ~~~3,031      4,040.        3,093         4,329         4,064         5,309                                                         100.3  000.0  100.0  130.0
Agric-ItrI Products                                347           360,          324           312           334         ..10.0   06.0   16.5
Wood aod Cork Po-duso                              273           366           306           331           364         ..14.6   15.0   17.9
Tosciln, clothiog & foolteoc                       560           684.          577           533          602          ..30.4   29.0    29.6
M-hbis-ry  -sd tro...port oqoipnot                 243           29(1          254           230           301         ..13.2   13.1   14.0
olor                                               420           569           474           394          426          ..22.0    24.5   21.a2   __
Toso1 More. Coporto (0..4b.)                     1,843         2,070F       1,933         1,922         2,027         0,370                                                         000.0  130.0  100.0  100.0
MERCHANDIISE TRADt mIICES                                                        19735  100
Eoport Prior Isd.o                                  80           101-          100           90           94            102
Ioport PIlco lcdoc                                  61            07           100           93           97            106
Tr-r  of Crado 1odoc                               131           118.          130            95          97             9
Copo_t Vol1-  Ocdco                                119           114           100          103         1Il1            120
VALUE A012DyE DOSCTOR                                (AnoocI Do- ot 1975 Price  cod Esolhoc  Rote of 0            Eec. 23.03)
Agrisliorrl                                      2,231         2,61          2,131        2,1 63        1,i947        2,044         -1.0    -2.7       1.5   -10.0        5.0        16.2   03.0   12.6   12.0
lofoty                                           6,080         6,322        5,731         5,976         6,601         4,803          4.0    -9.3       4.3    10.4        4.3        44.3   42.7   42.9   43.1
T.rlor                                           5.1            .6          558           643          f,A               0-5 1       0.8      1.4     13.6       6.6      3.0        3 9.a5   41.4   44.5   44.r1
Toeol                              ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~13,730  13,973  13,413      14,344        15,094         9j74           1.8    -4.0       0.6      5.7       3.8       100.0  100.   100.0  100.7
LnLIC FIMNCE                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1975   1971    1977   1976
P03104 710001Cc                                            Guroes~~~~~~~~~~~C. t Prices                                                                         Ao Vorero  of 11DP71M.aktc Velcr
Corrscocepoo                                              1,6571        1,036         2,256        2.436         2,991                  10.0    22.9        8.9     21.08        02.4   14.3   14.8   16.5-
orotsedc coro                                           1,740         2,493        2,901         2,900         3,404                  43.3    10.4        3.2    19.0         14.9   18.7   17.6   19.2
ths Sttr                                                       -83         -657          -643          -402         -493                                                            4.5     4.0    2.6      2 .7
Bclaso of Aoitcosoo  Foodo osd
Sorvior                                                         35          278            89           324           142                                                           1.9     0.0     1.9    4.0
Ccorot Dofiolt of Central Govt.                                  -20          -379         -556          -128          -351                                                           2.6      3.5l    0.0     1.9
RaIaco  or Lo.. Iovoro-r-r-                                       91           1086          10            1             49                                                           07      0.      01       0.3
Raac-  of SooloD  Se.. t    yso                                  12          -94          -37           -12            -14                                                           3.      2.      0.7
ocotDofioit of foblIe Seior                                   51         -367          -842          -222         -316                                                            2.1     5.5     1.3     1.7
Copitia  Espooditor-                                             457           642           784        1,040         1,042                  40.3    22.1    32.          0.          4.3      5.5     4.3     5.0
Sooru1 DrfIoit                                                  .327          -601       -1,410        -1,160        -1,507                                                           4.6   10.2       7.0    4.3
ILA,OR FORCE AOD OUITUT7 PER WORKIGRl/                                      TOTAL LABOs Fl d/                                        VALU ADDED PER WORKCER 41973 PRICES AND0 EXCHANGE RATE $1 - Coo. 25.537
1974         1977          1974          1977        Grooth ORte                  1974      1977              1974     1977                        1974-77
Agscut-1t.                                      1,300         1,219        3Y4-.1         32.2            -2.1                     1,4684   1, 597                45       39                          -1.98 
Iod-ocy                                         1,307        1,276          34.7          33.7            _3.6                    4,837   4,173                 130       1379                          2.3
Services                                        1.160        1.291          30.0          34.1           _3.6                     4.709   5.303                 127       130                           4.1
ToEd1                                           3,767         3,786        100.0         100.0              0.2                    3,709   4.088                 100      100                           3.1
a  t Scot lo -I DAi.c-rpa..y Go included io rho .......ptioo dac..
i  Ie [des o-koro  r_i ttoo ..e.
ofTots1 esployrd labor forco oodiog  -ork-r  abrod  -nd asoployrd.
o   fshuogr RAtrs 1973-  $1 - Eoo  24.67; 1974:  $1 -  25.40A; 1973:  $1   E o.- 25.55; 1976: 71 - Eoc. 30.03; 1977:  $1 - E.c. 30.270; 1970:  71 - hc. 43
Nocligihl.



- 26
4an. I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMEtTE AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AMD DEBT
(Amounts in Millions of U.S. Dollars *t Current Prices)
Actual                          Estimated
1973        1974         1975         1975         1977         1978
SUIMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (F.O.B.)                            1,843        2,278        1,935        1,823       2,027        2,370
imports (F.O.B.)                            2.745        4.277        3.605        3.932       4.533        4 827
Trade Balance (X-n)                          -902       -1,989       -1,670      -2,109       -2,506       -2,457
Net Non Factor  Services                        67         -74         -169           26           52         125
Tourism Rsiits (Gro-s)                     (550)        (513)        (360)        (332)        (403)       (505)
Resource Bala.ce                              -835      -2,063       -1,839       -2,083      -2,454       -2,332
Net Invs1tzent In.-s./                          86         129          -14         -133        -179         -277
Ne- T-rnsreea'                              1,097        1,111        1,037          972       1,134        1,397
Ral.--e               ---rorsen ro...e         348        -823         -817       -1.244      -1.499       -1.212
Dirct Foreign IEcesetrct                       110         109          122           75           57
Public MLT Loans
Disbursements                               158          153          231          249         387
Amnoti.stio.                                 74           67           77           68          93          ..
Ntt Diaburs sectc                              84           86          154          181          294
Other nLT Loa-s
Net Disburse4eAto                                        ..           ..           .           213
Short-Torn Capital acd Errors and
Omisoions                                   135          -82          -89         286           .
Other Capital )t.t..)                        -332          156          -58          641       1,046
Chbages is i fficial Liquid
Froriga Exhanbge Feser-es
(     Increose)                          -345          554         688          141         -111
Official Reoervec
Gross God of YearS/                       2,813        2,292        1,5335      1,385        1,450
Of Whbicb~ Gold                           1,149        1,181        1,137       1,125        1,025
For-ign Ethnbge                1,633       1,079          391          250          361
d/               ~~~~Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COllITMENTS                                                                                    DIBT AND ID88T SERVICE-        1973    1974    1975    1976         1977
Official Gr-cts & Gat-like                    -            -              3          -            -         Public Debt oitstanding
And Disbursed                 609     723      826   1,005      1,304
Public MI&LT Loans
IBRD                                        -            -            -             36          74        Interest on Public Debt          24       22      35       38         56
IDA                                         -                         -            -           -          Rapayneete on Public Debt        74       68      78       67         93
Other Moltilataral                          -            -            -            126          88        Tota1 Public Debt Service        98       90     113      105        149
Govert=ects                                 -             20           45           96         113        Otber MnLT Debt Service         ..       ..       ..      ..         332
Suppli-rs                                    28           27           35           48          39        Tota1 M&LT Debt Ssrvice         ..       ..      ..       ..         481
Financial narketc                            23          413           83          152         121
Public Loans a.e.i.                         _            -            -            -           -          8DRDEN ON EXPORT. NON FACTOR
Total PFblio M&LT Lo-nn                         51         460          163          458         435        8RRVICES AND IRkcERE
REMITTANCES (7.)
Public Debt Seroic            2.4     2.0      2.9     2.9        3.7
Total XI&LT Debt Servica      ..      ..       ..       .        11.9
Actual1 Debt O..tandi-o On Deo 31. 1977
EXTERNAL DEBT                                              Dieburled Ocly          On           .. e          A-erage Tans of Public Debt
I8RD                                                           32                           2.4
IDA                                                            -                            -                 Interest as 7. Prior YTar
othbr multi-tate-al                                           163                          12.5                 DO&D                        4.8      3.6     4.8      4.6        5.6
G-vervsnme                                                    321                          24.6               Amort. au 7. Prior Yeor
Suppl ero                                                     388                          29.8                 0D06                       14.9    11.2    10.8       8.1       9.3
ficancolai Markets                                            400                          30.7
Public Debts n.e.i.                                                                         -               IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed   45.2    42.2    39.0    35.6           32.2
Total Public M&LT Dobt                                      1,304                         100.0             IBRD D06D as 7% Public
Debt Out. & Disbursed         7.4     5.8     4.7      3.5        2.5
IBRD Debt SOrvio us E.
Public Debt Se-vice          6.3      6.9      5.6     5.8        4.7
a! Largely interact paymentn.
b/ Largely rorioro' re-ittances.
0/  Gold ic voiced at official prices.
dl  Debt scerice a.avatio  of eavning= froe expcvts. non fact-or srvices and
vorkers  remttances.
.ot avoilablo                                                                                                                           Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Denembe- 11, 1978



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of November 30, 1978)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.   Year         Borrower         Purpose        Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed    57.5                       -
1301       1976    Electricidade de
Portugal            Power          36.0                 32.8
1334       1976    Republic of
Portugal            Highways       24.0                 23.7
1432       1977    Banco de Fomento   Development
Nacional            Finance        50.0                 47.5
1541       1978    Republic of          Water
Portugal            Supply         40.0                 40.0 /a
1559       1978    Republic of
Portugal            Education      21.0                 21.0
1603       1978    Republic of          Agricultural
Portugal            Credit         70.0                 70.0 /a
TOTAL                                      298.5                235.0
of which has been repaid                   28.2
TOTAL now outstanding                      270.3
Amount sold                          2.2
of which has been repaid           2.1       .1
TOTAL now held by Bank lb                  270.4
TOTAL undisbursed                                              235.0
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of November 30, 1978)
None.
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1301 - Sixth Power Project; $36.0 Million Loan of September 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Project is expected to be delayed more than one year because of
organizational changes in the Power Authority (EDP), revisions in the Project
scope and in the list of goods. These factors delayed procurement under the
loan, and the start of significant disbursements. EDP is being reorganized
with emphasis on decentralizing management and merging municipal and small
private electricity undertakings with EDP. Mergers are expected to be com-
pleted by 1981. After a poor year in 1976 owing to the bad hydrological
conditions, EDP's earnings in 1977 were satisfactory. However, in 1978, EDP
is not expected to generate much internal cash, in spite of a 50 percent
increase in tariffs, owing to large increases in the interest rates. It is
estimated that, together with a 25 percent tariff increase in January 1979
and a further increase of 38 percent in January 1980, EDP would reach a self-
financing level of 30 percent in 1980.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1980.
Road rehabilitation is on schedule, but other project items are
behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding until the
effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 12-month delay in purchasing highway
maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition (which is now
completed) has caused an 18-month delay in the construction of the Covilha
bypass road; the contract for this road has now been awarded. The railways
study and the transport master plan are also 18 months behind schedule due
to delays in the selection of consultants. Selection is now completed and
consultants have commenced work.
Loan No. 1432 - Development Finance Company Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
While loan signing was delayed due to legal questions raised by
the Attorney General's office, it is hoped that project implementation will
catch up with appraisal estimates. The Bank has approved 36 sub-projects, and
a total of $15.5 million has been committed from the loan proceeds, as of
November 30.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: September 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant architects for all project institutions, including
management training centers, have been selected and have started work. All
sites for project institutions have been or are being acquired. In general,
overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Regio:n Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effectiveness Date: (not effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Although the loan is not effective, the contract for the Castelo
do Bode pipeline (about $33 million) is about to be awarded. Works are
expected to proceed without delay.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: (not effective); Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
is practically completed. Consultants have been selected for the groundwater
survey, and for the fish stock assessment survey; contract negotiations are
underway.



- 30 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FERTILIZER MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare    One year
the project:                                (June 1976 to June 1977)
(b)  The agency which has prepared the           QUIMIGAL
project:
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank and date of the first Bank
mission to consider the project:            June 1977
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                    February 1978
(e)  Date of completion of Negotiations:         November 1978
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:              April 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   QUIMIGAL to reschedule Esc. 2.25 billion short-term debt and
increase maturities to at least 7 years; condition of effective-
ness (para. 43).
2.   QUIMIGAL to fulfill effectiveness conditions of the EIB loan
(para. 43).
3.   QUIMIGAL to:
(a)  make arrangements to ensure a steady supply of inputs
required for various plants at least six months prior
to mechanical completion of each plant. Obtain as and
when needed supplies of fresh water for the operation
of all its facilities (para. 41);
(b)  complete a detailed training plan for its operational
staff before June 30, 1980, and subsequently implement
it (para. 41);



- 31 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) obtain, by June 30, 1979, commercial loans indicated in
the financing plan (para. 43);
(d) not exceed a debt equity ratio of 60:40 (para 45); and
(e) undertake to design, construct and operate its plant
facilities to comply with environmental standards accept-
able to tlhe Bank (para. 54).
4.   The Government and QUIMIGAL to determine, before March 31, 1980
and thereafter take any action considered necessary to ensure
that QUIMIGAL's non-fertilizer operations earn an adequate
return on capital (para. 44).
5.   The Government to:
(a) consult with the Bank during the development of a
longer-term strategy for the fertilizer sector and
before un,dertaking any further major investments in
the Fertilizer Industry (para. 33);
(b)  carry out a study of fertilizer demand, pricing,
marketing and distribution, and determine, in consul-
tation with the Bank, the action necessary to increase
the demand for, and improve the marketing and distribu-
tion of, fertilizers (para. 38);
(c) continue implementing its pricing policy regarding
prices of fertilizer inputs and products so as to
enable QiJIMIGAL to maintain its satisfactory financial
position in fertilizers under efficient operation (para.
44); and
(d) ensure prompt payment of compensation to QUIMIGAL for
farmers subsidies (para. 45).






ASCAIS    SINTRA  MAFR-I I-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~OMADRII                                                                            )
INTRA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  TRAFN
A T-' 4 A'T,C                                                                                                                                S P A I N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~~    e~aee~ yh
tBRAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ldt,ktf cc,h c
MON                                                                                        c IZ'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~een~,ccatc,ccsc
:,AG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.rpDcc,t,c,cc
>   h CDnh,h4adtl
A L E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bt,,cc hc,, hcic
JCEAN  u  ARRUDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c,e,,l.ccteh   h
oy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wd ckcdUJd,c
hch,c,t.h0cttN
POIGEEFETL ZRMOENASMBNPRJC
LOAINOAETLZRAN  ERCEIASPAT
APLANT SITES: ~ ~    ~     ~      ALC
k  Ocinigs -CIP  oesanhs UisoFabil                    Maor oad
Ooisial  N. NtrtosdoPohOS A   A R E M               eat
S E S I M B R A                                                                TY~~Qannga -AMOR. ,nnio POFsg SANTAMnoia Rodriso
EPG- e,praaPetrsjoinieaeGs     ~Rvt                                               0         3
:,MOITA                  v ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ AP C-SA  oPrdise   nrisCiile   o  otgl_ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _                    
E T U   ALCOCHET E~~~~~~~~~~~~SNS Rfnej adPtroem~ICoolc                                                                                  IOMTRS<c



