FILE      COP                     RESTRICTED
Report No. P-640
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
September 26, 1968



INTERNUATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOIENDATIOW OF TIHE P21ESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRIECTORS Oll A
PROPOSED LOAN TO TRINIDAD AuND TOBAGO
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$9.L4 million to
Trinidad and Tobago to help finance an education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In July 1967 the Government of Trinidad and Tobago was provided
the assistance of a UNESCO mission, under the Bank/UNESCO cooperative
arrangement, to help prepare an educational development project. In
November 1967 it requested a Bank loan to help finance the project and a
Bank mission visited Trinidad and Tobago in November/December 1967 to
appraise the project.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in WTashington from
August 12 to 16, 1968. Tne principal representative of the Government in
these negotiations was Mr. Frank Rampersad, Director of Economics and
Finance, MIinistry of Finance.
4.        The following is a summary of Banlc loans to Trinidad and Tobago
as of August 31, 1968:
Loan     Year       Borrower                 Purnose     Amount Undisbursed
(US$ millions)
293-TR   1961  Trinidad and Tobago          Power         21.4        -
486-TR   1967  Trinidad and Toba.-o          Agriculture   5.0       4.4
497-TR   1967  Trinidad and Tobago           Highway       8.6       8.2
Total (less cancellations)                  35.O
Of which has been repaid
to Bank and Others                         2.9
Total now outstanding                       32.1
Amount sold                   16.2
Of which has been repaid      2.9          13.3
Total now-i held by Bank 
Total undisbursed                                     12.6



5.        Some delays, common to the initial stages of a new undertaking,
have occurred under tle loan for agricultural development in the Crown
Lands but are now being corrected.  WTork under the highway loan has been
delayed by several months mainly due to lack of experience in international
competitive bidding procedures, combined with frequent government staff
changes. Construction contracts are scheduled to be signed this fall and
satisfactory progress is now expected.
6.        The findings of a mission in August 1968 to appraise a power
project are presently being reviewed.  The Government has also expressed
its interest in obtaining Bank assistance for tourism infrastructure and in
a proposed development finance company, botlh of which are still at an early
stage of preparation.
PART II - DESCRIPTIONH OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                 Trinidad and Tobago
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies of
US$9.4 million.
Purpose:                  To help finance an education project.
Amortization:             In twenty-five years, including a ten-
year period of grace, through semi-
annual installments beginning October 15,
1978 and ending October 15, 1993.
Interest Rate:            6-1/2% per annum.
Commitment Charge:        3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of an Education Project
in Trinidad and Tobago" (TO-671a) on the proposed project is being distributed
separately.
9.        Primary education in Trinidad and Tobago is well developed, with
an enrollment of about 95 percent of the 5-11 years age group. However, the
secondary school system is undersized relative to tlhe primary school system
and only 18 percent of the primary school graduates can enroll in a public
secondary school, the bulk of the remainder being absorbed in the highly
inadequate post-primary schools. Present senior secondary education is
geared to a pre-university academic program and is lacking in practical
training courses.



10.       The proposed project constitutes the first stage of a long-term
government plan to restructure the education system by (i) gradually re-
placing the present unsatisfactory post-primary school system by junior
secondary schools with adequate academic standards and (ii) re-orienting
the present academic program of senior secondary education to a comprehensive
type with options in agriculture, commercial subjects, home economics and
technological courses. The project includes the construction and equipment
for:
(a) 16 new junior secondary schools;
(b) 3 new senior comprehensive schools;
(c)  extensions to 3 existing secondary schools for
conversion into senior comprehensive schools; and
(d)  1 new teacher training college.
11.       After the completion of the project public school enrollment at
the junior secondary school level would increase from the present 24 percent
to 59 percent of the relevant age group, at the senior secondary level from
the present 13.1 percent to 14.7 percent and at teacher training colleges
from the present 680 students to 1,120 students. Preliminary studies have
indicated that the absence of proper schooling is a major deterrent to employ-
ment in Trinidad and Tobago and the project is expected to aid effectively
in reducing the substantial unemployment and in meeting the manpower needs
of Trinidad and Tobago's economic diversification effort.
12.       The Ministry of Works is responsible for the construction and
equipping of government schools, under the guidance of the Mlinistry of
Education and Culture on educational aspects. A special project unit under
a full-time project head will be created in tile 1iinistry of Works to carry
out the project.  Qualified architects are being engaged to assist the project
head in his work.
13.       Tlhe total cost of the project is estimated to be about US$18.8
million, of wlhich the foreign exchange component is estimated to be about
US$7.4 million, and would be incurred over a period of about five years.
Thie proposed loan of US$9.4 million would cover 50 percent of the project
cost and would include some financing of local currency expenditures.   rlis
is considered to be justified in the light of Trinidad and Tobago's major
efforts to mobilize domestic resources.
14.       Contracts for civil works and furniture and equipment procurement
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. The
Government will be permitted, in evaluating bids for furniture and equipment,
to compare ex-factory prices of locally-produced goods with the c.i.f. landed
cost of imported goods, increased by a margin of up to 15 percent.



- 4 -
PART IV - LEAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Baink and Trinidad and Tobago
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.  The draft Loan Agreement conforms substantially to the pattern
of loan agreements used for projects of this kind.
PART V - THE ECO1NOM1Y
16.       A report (W14-180a) on the "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Trinidad and Tobago" was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 11,
1968. The Government is making good progress in mobilizing domestic resources
for development and its general performance is satisfactory. Under these
circumstances the country can be considered creditworthy for substantial ex-
ternal borrowing to help meet the capital requirements of tlhe nation's eco-
nc.mic diversification program.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE l'ITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOPIHiTE2ATION
18.       I recommend thiat the Executive Directors of the Bank adopt the
following Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO._
Approval of Loan to Trinidad and Tobago in an
amount equivalent to US$9,400,000
RESOLVED:
THIAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Trinidad and Tobago in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million four hundred thousand
United States dollars (U.S.$9,400,000), to mature on and prior to October 15,
1993, to bear interest at the rate of six and one-half per cent (6-1/2') per
annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Education Project) between Trinidad and Tobago and the Bank, which
has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. Mcllamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
W^1ashington, D.C.
September 26, 1968



