1o*JA) 5fq -r
COPY              ~    ~~~~~R,.E-S T R I C T E D
FILE       COPY                          Report No. TO-67.1a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
September 26, 1968
Projects Departm-ent



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 US$                = Trinidad & Tobago $2. 00
1 Trinidad and
Tobago $ (1 TT$)    = US$0. 50
1 Million Trinidad and
Tobago Dollars      = US$500, 000
Note: Until November 21, 1967, Currency Equivalents
were:
1 US$                = Trinidad & Tobago $1. 71
1 Trinidad and
Tobago $ (1 TT$)    = US$0. 58
1 Million Trinidad and
Tobago Dollars      = US$583, 330



APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paragraphs
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY. . . . . . . a a . . o . . *                 i
I. INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . .
General                                         1.01
Social and Economic Background                  1.04
II.  THE EDUCATION SYSTEM . . . . . .
Organization and Administration                 2.01
Primary Education                               2.03
Secondary Education                             2.07
Technical and Vocational Education              2.11
Agricultural Education                          2.15
Teacher Training                                2.18
Higher Education                                2.23
Financing Education                             2.24
III, THE NEED FOR THE PROJECT . . . . . .
Economic Development Strategy                   3 oO1
Manpower Requirements                           3.03
The Education Plan                              3.o6
IV. THE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . .
General                                        '4.01
A. Technical Features
Teacher Training College                    4.03
Senior Secondary Schools                    4.07
Junior Secondary Schools                    4.14
Teachers for the Project Schools            4.18
Instructional Equipment                     4.21
B.  Costs                                       4.22
C.  Construction
Land                                        4. 29
Accommodation                               4. 30
Architectural Services                      4.31
Execution of the Project                    4.32
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOTIVENDATIONS                    5.01
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in November/
December, 1967, to Trinidad and Tobago, composed of Messrs. J.J. Stewart,
J.G.N. Blaxall, C. Hammerschmidt, and J.Ml. Holley of the Bank and Mr. R.
Ganeff of Unesco.



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1. Outline of School System
2. M4inistry of Education and Culture Administrative Structure
3. Primary and Post-Primary Enrollment, Grades and Progression Rates
4. Distribution of Enrollment by Standards :at Plrimary and Post-Primary
Level, 1965
5. Education Structure and Enrollment (1965)
6. Distribution of Enrollment by Forms at Secondary Level (public) 1965
7. Technical Education and Vocational Training Institutions
8.  University of the 'Jest Indies, St. Augustine - Student Registration,
1967/68
9. Public Capital Expenditure on Education
10. Public Recurrent Expenditure on Education, 1963-68
11. Public Recurrent Expenditure on Education, Actual and Projected
12. Total Public Expenditure on Education
13. Technical Assistance Scholarships
14.  Enrollments in Project Senior Comprehensive Schools
15.  Project Senior Secondary School Teacher Requirements, 1971-74
16. Estimated Capital Costs of Project
17.  Estimated Schedule of Construction and Total Expenditures
MAP - Location of Proposed Schools



BASIC DATA 1966 Al
Area               Trinidad                  1,864
Tobago                      116
Total                     1,9 0 square miles
Population         Trinidad                958,o000
Tobago                   36,o
Total                   994,°°°
Population Density                             502 per square mile
Urban Population                                43 percent
Gross Domestic Product                  TT$1,195.2 million
at Factor Cost                          Us$697.2 million
Composition of:    GDP                     Labor Force
Agriculture      10.0%                      21.9%
Petroleum        27.8%                       5.0%
Manufacturing    13.6%                      14.8,
Construction      5.3%                      11.4%
Government       11. 4%                    )
)46.9%
Other            31.9%
100.0%
Real Growth of GDP (1960-1966)                 3,4` p.a.
(1965-1966)                 2.44% p.a.
GNP per capita                               TT$l 160
USM 673
National income per capita                     US$546
Government recurrent receipts as
percent GDP (Market Prices)                 16.9%
Government recurrent expenditures
as percent GDP (Market Prices)              16.1%
2/ All data are for 1966 except as otherwise noted.



BASIC DATA (Cont.)
EDUCATION AND IWTAPJTER
i4ale   Female   Total
School age population   (5-14) ('000)               132.9   130.8   263.7
Working age population (15-64) ('000)               266.2   268.3   534.5
Labor force 1/ ('000)                               233.9   101.2   335.1
Unemployment                                         10.7%,  10.1,"  10.5%
Literacy rate                                        over      80o
Public and private primary school enrollment as
proportion of age group 5-11                                 ?5'
Public and private secondary school enrollment as
proportion of age group 12-18                                40%
Rate of growrth in population    (1961-1966)                  2.8% p.a.
Rate of growth in labor force    (1964-1967)                  2.6% p.a.
Rate of growth in 5-14 age group (1960-1965)                  2.97. p.a.
Total public and private expenditure on education
as percent of GDP at market prices (1965 estimate)          3.3%
Total public and private expenditure on education         TT$44.9
per capita (1965 estimate)                              US$26.0
Total public expenditure on education as percent of          20.1%
government recurrent revenues
Distribution of
Distribution of     Recurrent Public     Distribution of
Public Student       Expenditure         Attainment in
Level of Education        Enrollment         on Education        Labor Force
Primary Education            78.2%                68%                 73%
Secondary Education          21.2%                17%                 19%
Higher Education              o.6                 15%                  1%
100.0%               100%                 93%2/
2/ According to international definitions.   Trinidad and Tobago definitions
give a total labor force of 350,700 and an unemployment rate of 14.4.%.
2/ Percentages in this column refer to attendance rather than completion of
education level; 7% of the labor force did not receive any formal education.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
GLOSSARY
I. Schools
A. By Level of Instruction
Types of Schools         Level of Instruction
Primary                  Standards 1 through 5
Post-Primary             Standards 6 and 7
Intermediate             Standards 6 and 7, and
Forms 1 through 5.
Junior Secondary         Forms 1 through 3
Senior Secondary         Forms 4 through 6
General Secondary        Forms 1 through 6
B. By Ownershin
Ownership and Operation
Government               Owned and operated by
vlinistry of Education.
Assisted                 Owned and operated by
denominational groups but
financed by Ministry of
Education.
Public                   Includes both government
and assisted schools.
Private                  Owned and operated by
private organizations or
individuals.
II. Examinations
General Certificate of       Examination at the completion
of Form 5 (Grade 10), set and
Education, "O" Level       graded by the Cambridge Board
(Ordinary Level)         of Examiners.
General Certificate of       Examination at the completion
of Form 6 (Grade 12), set and
Education, "A" Level       graded by the Cambridge Board
(Advanced Level)        of Examiners.



APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SUMMARY
i.        The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has
been asked by the Government of Trinidad and Tobago to assist in financing
the construction and equipment of:
- a primary and junior secondary school teacher training college,
- three new senior secondary comprehensive schools,
- sixteen new junior secondary schools, and
- the conversion of three existing secondary schools into senior secondary
comprehensive schools.
ii.       The proposed project would make possible a re-structuring of the
edlucation system of Trinidad and Tobago as the first stage of a long term
education development plan: general academic studies in the lower cycle
of secondary schools would be concentrated in junior secondary schools and
permit the phasing out of the present inadequate post-primary system. i/
Senior secondary studies would be re-oriented from the present academic
program to a comprehensive type with options in agriculture, commercial
subjects, home economics, and technological cour'ses.
iii.      The proposed teacher training college is part of a program to
consolidate five existing small teacher training institutions into three
larger, modern schools to achieve economies of scale. It would up-grade
standards, providing annually about 200 trained teachers for the improvement
of the primary school program and for the expansion of the junior secondary
school system. The college, with an enrollment of 440 students, would in-
crease the capacity of the present teacher training system by 65 percent and
would represent 31 percent of the planned capacity of the teacher training
system by 1983.
iv.       The project senior comprehensive secondary schools would provide
6,400 student places, representing the only increase in the senior second-
ary school system until 1975. Wghen completely full in 1974, they would
enroll 27 percent of the senior secondary students and would increase the
percentage of the relevant age group enrolled from the present 13.1 percent
to 147 percent. By producing greater numbers of pupils who would be better
qualified for admission to university or other post-secondary studies and more
adaptable for training to fit the requirements of industry, these schools would
help to meet important manpower needs in the country.
v.        The project junior secondary schools would provide 15,120 new places
which would be operated on two shifts of students per day. The increased en-
rollment of 30,240 would represent 168 percent of existing enrollment at junior
secondary level and by 1974 would correspond to 57 percent of the planned en-
rollment in junior secondary schools at that time. The increased capacity
2/ See Glossary.



- ii -
of the junior secondary system would make possible a general education
for 59 percent of the relevant age group, as compared to 24 percent at
present.
vi.       An ample supply of qualified applicants would be available for
admission to the project schools.
vii.      During the first three years of the project, qualified and experi-
enced technical teachers would advise the Ministry of Education and Culture
on the initiation of the practical courses within the project senior second-
ary comprehensive schools and additional specialist teachers would be em-
ployed in the project teacher training college.
viii.     The schedules of accommodation for all project items are adequate
and conform to austere standards. The estimates of cost are realistic. De-
tailed lists of instructional equipment will be revised and submitted to the
Bank for approval before procurement. Reasonable funds for instructional
equipment have been included within the estimated project cost.
ix.       The project would be executed under the supervision of a Project
Unit within the Ministry of Works in close coordination with the Ministry of
Education and Culture. Buildings would be designed by firms of consulting
architects. Contracts for civil works and for furniture and equipment pro-
curement would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
x.        The total project cost is estimated at 37.6 million Trinidad and
Tobago dollars (TT$), equivalent to US$ 18.8 million. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$ 7.4 million. The proposed loan equivalent to
US$9.4 million, 50 percent of the total project cost, would be made to the
Government of Trinidad and Tobago. The annual recurrent costs of the project,
approximately US$3.4 million, and the remaining capital costs would be met
by the government. Construction of the project would be completed by 1973.
xi.       With agreement reached on the conditions described in paragraphs
5.02-5.04, the project would be a suitable basis for a Bank loan equivalent
to US$9.4 million for 25 years, including a ten-year grace period.



APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
I. INTRODUCTION
General
1.01      In November, 1967, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago applied
to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for assistance
in financing an education development project.  As prepared in July, 1967,
with the assistance of a Unesco project preparation mission, the project
had been estimated to cost the equivalent of US$31 million.
1.02      An appraisal mission comprising Messrs. J. J. Stewart (technical
education), J. G. N. Blaxall (economist) Carl A. C. Hammerschmidt (architect),
and J. M. Holley (agricultural educations of the Bank and Mr. R. Ganeff
(secondary education) of Unesco visited Trinidad and Tobago in November/
December, 1967. This report is based upon the findings of that mission.
1.03      While the appraisal mission was in Trinidad, the government
prescribed a ceiling of US$15 million on the capital cost of the project
because of-budgetary limitations but did not indicate which schools were to
be deleted. A priority rating was subsequently assigned by the Ministry of
Education-to each school in the original project and sent to the Bank in
May, 1968. From this list, the appropriate high priority schools were agreed
upon with the government to bring the estimated project cost, including pro-
vision for contingencies, to slightly less than US$15 million equivalent.
At the request of the government in September, 1968, five additional junior
secondary schools were included within the project. The project items, as
now recommended, their cost in U.S. dollars, and as a percentage of the
total project cost are as follows:
Cost         % of
US$Million      Total
Project Item                       Equivalent     Project
1  Teacher Training College                0.75            4
16 New Junior Secondary Schools            12.42           66
3 Newi Senior Secondary Schools            3.24          .17
3 Converted Senior Secondary Schools       2.38           13
TOTAL     18.79          100
Social and Economic Background
1.04      The islands of Trinidad and Tobago, which form the most southerly
nation in the West Indies, have a population with the following diverse



- 2 -
origins: African, hO4., Indian sub-continent, 35,O; and Chinese or European, the
remainder. About 43L. of the country'ls population of about one million
lives in Trinidad's two urban concentrations between Port of Spain and
Arima in the north and around San Fernando in the southwest. About 70%
of the cultivable land in Trinidad, which amounts to one-third of the island,
is under cultivation; industrial activities include oil drilling and re-
fining, and light manufacturing. Tobago's economy is predominantly agri-
cultural at present, although the island's tourist potential has begun to
be developed.
1.05      Foreign trade has accounted for 60 to 70 percent of the GDP in
recent years. If intra-sectoral transactions, such as refining and re-
exporting imported crude oil, are not considered, exports amount to about
30 percent and imports about 35 percent of GDP. Petroleum products and
chemicals represent nearly three-quarters of all net export earnings while
their production contributes about one-third of GDP. The traditional plan-
tation crops such as sugar, cocoa, grapefruit and coffee have declined from
20 percent to 12.5 percent of net exports between 1963 and 1966, although
agriculture as a whole has maintained its share of GDP at about 10 percent.
Manufacturing exports have risen from 4 percent to 5 percent of the total
in the same period while the sector has contributed about 14 percent to the
GDP. The government has assigned high priority to the diversified growzthi of
the economy and has prepared an educaticnal plan for the period 1968-1983 to
produce the personnel essential to its development strategy.
1.06      Levels of income are relatively high (Mationpl income per capita was
JS2546 in 1966), as are also standards of hcalth and housing. The literacy rate
is over 80 percent. The recent rate ot population increase has been about 2.8%
per year. In late 1967, the government initiated a birth control
program with the objective of reducing the birth rate from 34 to 19 per
thousand within ten years.
1.07      Trinidad and Tobago has been an independent nation within the
British Commonwealth since 1962 and became a member of the Organization of
American States in 1967. It has signed the Caribbean Free Trade Association
.greement J



- 3 -
II. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Organization and Administration
2.01      The education system of Trinidad and Tobago (Annex 1) is patterned
after the British system. The Ministry of Education and Culture supports
directly the government schools and provides subventions to schools owned
and operated by voluntary agencies. The Permanent Secretary is the chief
administrative officer in the Ministry of Education and Culture (Annex 2)
and is responsible for the administration, staffing, inspection and examina-
tion system of all schools in Trinidad and Tobago.- An Education Planning
Unit, established in 1964, is functioning properly.
2.02      The primary school inspectorate is responsible for the academic
and maintenance standards of primary schools, the selection of textbooks,
and the examination at the completion of primary schooling (Standard 5) and
post-primary schooling (Standard 7). The primary school inspectorate's
performance has been satisfactory, but because of these duties and other
administrative tasks, it could effectively utilize additional personnel.
Ministry officials have been reluctant to exercise authority over the
denominational secondary schools, which number 23 of the public secondary-
schools, and a secondary school inspectorate has not yet been established.
The government has agreed to establish a secondary school inspectorate
which would be adequately staffed to permit at least one annual inspection
of each public secondary school.
Primary Education
2.03      The primary education system (Annex 1) consists of two years of
infant school followed by five years (or standards) of primary school. The
syllabi and timetables of the primary schools are being revised to provide
a greater correlation of studies with the local environment. Promotion is
dependent upon an internal, end of the year, examination. Normally, less
than 8% of the enrollment fails to proceed to the next standard (Annex 3).
2.04      In 1965, 42,500 pupils were enrolled in government primary schools,
144,200 in assisted primary schools (Annex 4), and only 7,700 in private
primary schools. Their combined enrollment of 194,400 corresponded to 95% of
the 5-11 years age group. Education is compulsory between the ages of six
and 14 years, inclusive.
2.05      Two years of post-primary schooling (Standards 6 and 7) are offered
to students who are unable to gain admission to a secondary school. The
post-primary schools are ill-equipped, over-crowded, and under-staffed. In
these circumstances, pupils receive only limited benefits from the program.
Those who complete Standard 7 and pass the Primary School Leaving Examination,
administered by the Ministry of Education, are awarded certificates which are
prerequisites for admission to vocational or craft training.
2.06      The Common Entrance Examination determines which students will be
admitted to a government or assisted secondary school and which will be
admitted to a post-primary school. Because the secondary school system is
under-sized in proportion to the primary school system (AUnnex 5), this
examination constitutes the most severe screening within the public education



- 4 -
system; in 1965, only 18% of Standard 5 enrollment was admitted to Form 1
of a government or assisted secondary school, 56% continued to Standard 6,
18%' elected to repeat Standard 5 in the hopes of being admitted to a govern-
ment or assisted secondary school in the following year, and the balance,
82%, enrolled in private secondary schools.
Secondary Education
2.07      Secondary education consists, for most pupils, of academic studies
in Foims 1 through 5, leading to the Cambridge General Certificate of
Education (GCE) examination at "0"1 level. Enrollment in these forms in l2y5
in 43 public secondary schools, and in eight public intermediate schools -
was 23,900 (Annex 6). The total enrollment in public schools at this level
corresponded to 20% of the relevant age group.
2.08      The curriculum consists of a group of ten required courses and one
or two electives, chiefly in arts subjects. About 10% of Form 1 enrollment
drop-out before reaching Form 5, and about 5% repeat Form 5 to prepare again
for GCE "0"1 level examinations. In 1967, the percentage of students in the
public schools who passed GCE "0"1 level examination subjects varied from 28%
in general science to 48% in history.
2.09      Admission to Form 6, a two-year program in preparation for the GCE
examination at "All (Advanced) level and for admission to a university, is
highly selective and is based upon performance in the GCE "0"I levels and the
recommendation of the school principal. In 1965, the enrollment in the first
year of Form 6 was 11% of the enrollment in Form 5. In 1966, 366 students
received "A" level certificates in two or three subjects.
2.10      Because of the limited capacity of the public secondary school
system, private secondary schools, operated for financial profit, have in-
creased in numbers in recent years. In 1967, 89 private secondary schools
were in operation, compared with 66 in 1965. In 1965, 54 private secondary
schools reported a combined enrollment of 1h,300 pupils, corresponding to 59%
of the public secondary school enrollment. IMinistry of Education officials
contend that the typical private secondary school is too poorly housed and
equipped and inadequately staffed to provide a satisfactory standard of
education and that when the provisions of the Education Act of 1966 are
enforced, most of the private schools will have to close. It is unlikely,
however, that substantial numbers of private schools will be closed until
additional places have been created within the public secondary school system.
Technical and Vocational Education
2.11      Instruction in technical cr vocational courses in the existing
primary and secondary schools is extremely limited. Nineteen industrial arts
centers provide one half day of shop practice per week to selected students
in Standards 6 and 7 of nearby primary schools. Fifteen of the 43 public
secondary schools offer one or two courses in either agricultural, commercial,
home economics, metalwork or woodwork courses.   The instruction usually covers
I/ See Glossary



three periods per week with, in many instances, inadequate equipment and
poorly qualified teachers.
2.12    Only three day schools (Annex 7) offer craft level training, with a
combined enrollment of 680 day students and 1,090 evening students. About
75% of the students have completed Standard 7 and the rest have received some
secondary schooling.
2.13    The John Donaldson and the San Fernando Technical Institutes provide
a technician training in addition to craft courses and expect to produce
their first output in 1968, a combined total of 36 technicians. Both insti-
tutes are under-equipped and under-staffed (about 70% of authorized staff),
with the most acute shortages in equipment and teachers occurring in the
higher technician courses.
2.14    Apprentice training is under the supervision of the Ministry of
Labor. In December, 1966, 413 apprentices were enrolled in programs regis-
tered with that Ministry and approximately three times as many were estimated
to be in less formal apprentice programs. The Ministry of Labor is dis-
satisfied with the numbers of apprentices and is revising apprentice regula-
tions to guarantee an adequate amount of time spent in actual training and
to stimulate an increase in the apprentice program, perhaps making apprentice
training mandatory for some industries.
Agricultural Education
2.15    An agricultural science course is offered in 11 secondary schools for
two to six periods per week.   The syllabus, which prepares students
for the Cambridge General Certificate of Education (GCE) examination at " 0"
level, emphasizes pure science and does not provide sufficient instruction
in practical agriculture.
2.16    Post-secondary agricultural education is provided in a two-year course
for agricultural technicians at the Eastern Caribbean Farm Institute (ECFI), a
regional school established in 1954 and operated by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Applicants for admission must have passed the GCE examination at "0"' level in
five subjects, including English and mathematics. The training program is
well suited to the needs of Trinidad and allocates about 50% of the time to
laboratory work and practice farming, 40% to lectures, and the balance to tours
of agricultural projects. Seventy percent of the current enrollment of 73 is
from Trinidad and Tobago. The government has approved a plan to enlarge the
institute to accommodate an enrollment of 200.
2.17    Universitv agricultural edlication is offered in a three-year B.Sc.
program ana various M.c * and Ph.D. programs at the Faculty of Agriculture in
the University of the West Indies at St. Augustine, Trinidad.
Teacher Training
2.18    A Board of Teacher Training, comprising officers of the Ministry of
Education and teacher training institutions, is responsible for the admission
standards, academic programs, and examination procedures of the existing three



government and two assisted primary teacher training colleges. Students are
selected for in-service training courses at four of the colleges by the
i1inistry of Education from the group of untrained primary school teachers, who
number 3,700 out of the total primary school teaching staff of 7,000.   Require-
ments for admission are G.C.E. "O" level certificates in at least five subjects
plus teaching experience. Because only 280 new students can be admitted per
year into these schools, the untrained primary school teacher must spend an
inordinately long period in service before being considered for admission to
a teacher training college; in 1967, applicants were required to have at least
eight years of teaching experience. This has resulted in a lowering of morale
among primary school teachers, an undesirably high turnover of staff, and
slow reduction of the numbers of untrained primary school teachers.
2.19      The fifth school, the Mausica Teacher Training College, selects
students for a pre-service course on the basis of interviews and academic
records. In 1967, 780 applied and 600 were interviewed for the 110 available
places. The quality of the students, in general, is higher than in the other
teacher training colleges, and some students have passed two or three subjects
at GCE "A" level. The percentage of students with adequate science or mathe-
matics training, however, as in the other colleges, was only about 25 percent.
2.20      The curricula of all the teacher training colleges are similar, with
only minor variations; approximately 45 percent of class time is spent in
pedagogical courses and the balance in subject courses of the primary school
curriculum. In addition, 12 weeks per year are allocated to practice teaching.
2.21      No institution for training secondary school teachers is in operation
in Trinidad at present. Junior secondary school teachers will be trained in
approximately equal numbers with primary school teachers in an expanded Mausica
Teacher Training College and a new college, to be converted from a former U.S.
naval barracks, both financed by the government, and the new teacher training
college to be established at can Fernando. The combined output would be
about 340 junior secondary school teachers per year, but the recent reduction
in the number of junior secondary schools to be constructed. within the next
five years has made uncertain the timetable for the twc teacher training
colleges that wouJd be completely government financed.
2.22      Officials at the Trinidad campus of the University of the West
Indies hope to establish a School of Education to provide teacher training
for senior secondary school teachers.
Higher Education
2.23      University education has been available in Trinidad since 1962 within
the framework of the University of the West Indies, a regional institution
serving the countries in the West Indies.  "t the St. Augustine campus in
Trinidad, three-year degree courses are offered in agriculture, economics,
natural science, engineering, and arts (Annex 8). Students with the General
Certificate of Education at "O" level in specified subjects are admitted to a
one-year preparatory course in the College of Arts and Science before beginning
degree level studies, while students with the General Certificate of Education
at "A" level in specified subjects are admitted directly into degree programs.
About one-third of the students in science, engineering, and agriculture are
admitted to the university through the one-year preparatory course. An Insti-
tute of Education has been functioning at the university since 1963, studying
primary teacher training methods and the primary school curriculum.



-7-
Financing Education
2.24      All public expenditures on education in Trinidad and Tobago are
made directly by the central government. The religious denominational boards
of assisted schools are responsible for maintenace of buildings, with two-
thirds of the cost of approved major repairs and building programs normally
reimbursed by the Ministry.
2.25      All vocational, technical and teacher training facilities are
financed by the Ministry of Education (except the Eastern Caribbean Farm
Institute) and are tuition-free. The Ministry of-Finance provides about
TT$600,OOO per year to support students at the St. Augustine (Trinidad) and-
the Ilona (Jamaica) campus of the University of the Test Indies and overseas.
Capital Expenditure
2.26      Public capital expenditure on education (Annex 9) has risen from-
3 percent of total government capital outlays in 1963 to 8 percent in 1967.
Capital expenditure for the Second Five Year Plan period, 1964-1968, will
total TT$25.8 million, TT$6 million more than was initially allocated. Over
TT$5 million of the excess was due to over-runs in the estimated cost of the
new buildings of the College of Arts and Sciences at the Trinidad campus of
the University of the lWest Indies.
2.27      The Third Five Year Plan (1969-1973) has not yet been prepared,
but the decision has been taken that the   Hinistry of Education's capital
expenditure should not exceed TT$900 million a year, or about TT$h5 million
over the period. The IMinistry of Education has allocated capital expendi-
tures under the Second and Third Five Year Plans as follows:
Second Plan      Third Plan (projections)
(TT$ million) (%)     (TT$ million)  (%)
Primary Education                  3.9       15           h.5       10
Secondary Education                4.0      16           38.r       84
Technical and Vocational            2.0       8           1.4        3
Teacher Training                   0.8        3           1.1        3
College of Arts and Sciences      10.9       42            -         -
Others                             4.2      16             -         -
25.8     100          45.0      100



- 8 -
2.28    Information on private capital expenditure on education is extremely
limited but in 1965 it is estimated to have been about TT$0.5 million,
compared with public outlays of TT$3.6 million. The major part of private
capital expenditure is for secondary schools.
Recurrent Expenditure
2.29    During the period 1963-67, public recurrent expenditure on education
(Annex 10) has risen at an average rate of 12 pcrcent per annum while
total government recurrent expenditure increased at 7 percent per annum. In
the future, the annual increase for education is to be limited to 7 or 7.5
percent each year, while total government recurrent expenditure is expected
to grow at 5 percent annually. As a proportion of total recurrent expenditure,
education recurrent expenditures have risen from 16 percent in 1963 to 21
percent in 1967, and are expected to be 23 percent in 1973.
2.30    The Ministry of Education's recurrent expenditures since 1963
have remained approximately 83% of the total public recurrent expenditures
on education but budget allocations among different levels of education have
shifted slightly (Annex 11); recurrent expenditures on technical education
and teacher training have remained at three and two percent, respectively;
secondary education has increased from 20 to 23 percent; and primary
education has fallen from 71 to 63 percent. Because few primary schools
will se const,ructe1 uintil after 1973, the relative share of reclurrent
expenditures allocated to primary education wfill decrease as the secondary
school system expands. In 1974, when the proposed project schools would be
filled, recurrent expenditures on primary education would amount to 58%
of the-Ministry of Educationts budget, and secondary education would amount
to 27%.
Total Expenditure
2.31    Total public expenditure on education, both capital and recurrent
(Annex 12) has increased from 12% of total government expenditure in 1963
to 18% in 1967 and from 2.7% of GDP in 1963 to 4h0% in 1967. By 1974, public
expenditures on education are expected to account for 20 percent of total
government outlays and 4.5 percent of GDP.
Foreign Assistance
2.32    Since its initial support of education in Trinidad and Tobago in
1963, the Canadian Commonwealth Caribbean Assistance Program has steadily
increased the education part of its program. The annual cost of the 33
Canadian teachers provided in 1967 amouited to over TT;75O,CO7O,
equivalent to 1.7% of all public recurrent expenditures on education in 1967,
and a fourfold increase over the 1965 level of assistance. Approximately
20 volunteer teachers from Canada and six from the United Kingdom comprised
the balance of the expatriate teachers supplied under assistance programs.



2.33      Unesco has provided two education planning experts for a combined
total of 22 months. Since 1964, approximately 100 scholarships for overseas
studies have been awarded annually (Arnnex 13), principally by the United
Kingdom, Canada, United States, and the United Nations. In recent years,
about ten percent of the scholarship holders have not returned immediately
to Trinidad and Tobago.



- 10 -
III. THE NEED FOR THE PROJECT
Economic Development Strategy
3.01      The economic development strategy of Trinidad and Tobago centers
around the diversified growth of the economy including:
(a)  Greater exploitation of mineral and agricultural resources.
Crude oil production rose 17 percent between 1966 and 1967, and is expected
to rise about eight percent in 1968. W'ithout major new discoveries, produc-
tion will probably rise an additional two to three percent a year through
normal extension of the present system, which is expected to last 10 or 12
years at the current level of exploitation. The oil sector has limited
manpower requirements in quantitative terms but is in constant need of tech-
nically qualified Trinidadian personnel.
The agricultural sector's development is given high priority by
the government and, although employment will probably not increase by more
than twIo percent annually, the proportion of highly trained personnel within
the agricultural labor force is expected to increase in order to produce
sizeable increases in production by the application of modern science and
technology.
(b) Expansion of service industries, especially tourism. A num-
ber of foreign companies are interested in establishing large tourist hotels,
especially on the island of Tobago, and the government is prepared to encour-
age these ventures by providing necessary infrastructural investment. To
assist the government in planning, a Bank mission in March, 1968, examined the
tourism potential of the country and has outlined action required by the
government to develop tourism. The employment potential of the tourist indus-
try is considerable and demand will undoubtedly grow for people with all levels
of skill in this sector.
(c) Greatly increased manufacturing output. The expansion of the
manufacturing sector will depend largely on the introduction of light engi-
neering and assembly-type operations, serving both the domestic market and
the Caribbean region. The sector's output has grown recently at six percent
annually but the rate has been rising and the government hopes to maintain
the level at ten percent per annum over the next few years. To meet the
needs of this sector, there is an unsatisfied and rapidly increasing demand
for craftsmen and technicians in the more sophisticated branches of light
industry, whose training must be based on a good general education.
3.02      In association with these sectoral developments, the construction
industry is expected to expand at a rate of seven or eight percent per annum.
This will provide new employment opportunities for the unskilled and increase
the need of qualified technicians and supervisors in the building trades.
Maapower Requirements
3.03      The skilled manpower needed to meet the economic development strate-
gy described above has not been quantified. From time to time, limited surveys



- 11 -
have been made to establish the requirements for specialized personnel of
a particular group of industries; these have invariably concluded that a
widespread demand for intermediate level technical personnel exists.
3.04      It is also clear from unemployment statistics and from the reports
of the Productivity Center, employers' associations, and private entrepre-
neurs that employment opportunities are widely available for those who have
completed general secondary education and there is a large unsatisfied demand
for those with higher qualifications. Over 80 percent of those unemployed
in mid-1966 had never attended secondary school and virtually all the rest
had not completed GCE "O" levels.
3.05      The Central Statistics Office has made overall projections of the
numbers of trained people required between 1967 and 1975 and has conserva-
tively estimated a required output of about 60,000 senior secondary school
graduates over the period. Approximately this number will be produced by
the secondary school system if expanded as proposed. It is important to
note in this context that the estimated future requirements are based on
the current pattern of available skills and level of education, which has
been significantly influenced by the unavailability of secondary school
leavers.
The Education Plan
3.06      To meet these needs, the government has prepared an education
development plan, for the period 1967-1983, based on the recommendations
of a Unesco Education Planning Mission which visited the country in 1964.
The major objectives of the plan are to:
(a)  Rebuild 91,000 places in primary schools that are in unsatis-
factory condition and construct 119,000 new places in order to provide pri-
mary education to 90 percent of the age group 5-12. The remaining 10 percent,
as at present, would consist of private school pupils and those physically
unable to attend school.
(b) Maintain the number of primary school places approximately
constant through 1973 and minimize capital expenditures on the primary
school system during that period to increase the availability of funds for
the development of the junior secondary, senior secondary, and teacher
training institutions.
(c) Divide the present secondary school system into two separate
systems - junior secondary and senior secondary - with separate schools for
each system in order to provide junior secondary education to 90 percent of
the 12-14 age group by 1983 and to utilize the facilities of the general
secondary schools to provide a more varied and specialized educational program
at the senior secondary level. The creation of the two separate school
systems would improve the space usage of both types of schools and would
postpone until age 14+ the selection of specialized studies.



- 12 -
(d) Expand education at the junior secondary level. This is of-
fered at present in general secondary schools and intermediate schools to
24 percent of the age group. Fifteen of these schools will be converted into
junior secondary schools and 45 new junior secondary schools will be construc-
ted by l983 in strategic locations which would allow each junior secondary
schoo'l to be fed by approximately 20 primary schools.
(e)  Reorient the senior secondary school system, comprising Forms 4
through 6, from the present pre-university academic program to a comprehensive
type. Specialized options in technology, agriculture, home economics, and
commercial subjects would be offered in Forms 4 and 5; Form 6 would continue
to be a more specialized academic program in preparation for university studies.
To achieve this objective, 12 new comprehensive schools would have to be con-
structed, six existing general secondary schools would have to be converted
to comprehensive type schools by the addition of laboratories, workshops,
and farming areas, and the balance of the existing general secondary schools
would be converted to senior academic secondary schools. Each new senior
secondary school would be located so as to accommodate students from three
junior secondary schools and to correct the present concentration of second-
ary schools in and near the two main towns of Port of Spain and San Fernando.
(f) Provide a fully trained primary school and junior secondary
school teaching corps by 1974. Untrained teachers will not receive permanent
appointment hereafter and the present group of untrained primary school teachers
will receive a two-year teacher training course. The 1,500 untrained teachers
who are not qualified at present for entry into a teacher training college
will be prepared by in-service training courses for admission by 1972. To
achieve this objective, the existing five teacher training colleges, which
are ill-equipped, under-staffed, and occupy crowded sites, will be replaced
by three larger colleges having an enrollment of approximately twice the
present total enrollment. The new teacher training colleges will be large
enough to afford the high percentage of specialists required in effective
teacher training.
3.07      As stated above, the Education Plan is intended to assist the
economic development of the country. It would eliminate or alleviate pre-
sent unsatisfactory educational practices and influence indirectly the
econony of the country as follows:
(i) Financial allocations would be used more effectively in
producing better educated and more trainable school leavers and this would
have an up-grading effect upon the labor force.
(ii) The proposed expansion of teacher training facilities in
order to reduce the numbers of untrained teachers would up-grade the entire
educational system.



- 13 -
(iii) The establishment of a separate junior secondary school
system would provide more efficient secondary schooling to greater numbers
of students and thereby ameliorate the present unsatisfactory retention
rate of students in post-primary Standards 6 and 7, described in paragraph
2.05, and would make possible a reduction in the numbers of private second-
ary schools which are not capable of providing1ithe level of education
prescribed by the Ministry of Education.
3.08      The proposal to establish a separate senior secondary school
system with a comprehensive type of curriculum would provide specialized
technical courses and produce secondary school leavers better prepared for
further training or for employment. Preliminary surveys have indicated
that the absence of proper schooling and particularly f the basic ability
to learn new skills is a major deterrent to employment in Trinidad and
Tobago. In a country where private enterprise, both foreign and local, is
an important factor in the economy, the continued shortage of persons with
a good general education and basic skills will deter the establishment of
new industries and the effective implementation of the nation's economic
development strategy described above.



- 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The project consists of the construction and equipment of (i) one
teacher training college for primary and junior secondary teacher trainees,
(ii) three senior comprehensive secondary schools, (iii) 16 junior secondary
schools, and (iv) alterations and equipment for the conversion of three
general secondary schools into senior comprehensive secondary schools. The
estimated cost and enrollment of each project item are summarized below:
Estimated Cost                F.E. Component
(Equivalent                    (Equivalent
Project Item        Enrollment   US$ millicns)   % of Project   US$ millions)
San Fernando Teacher
Training College       440         o.65               4            0.29
3 New Senior Compre-
hensive Secondary
Schools              3,120          2.79             17            1.15
3 Converted Senior
Comprehensive
Secondary Schools    3,280         2.05             13             0.87
16 Junior Secondary
Schools             30.240        10471              66            14o9
Total       37l080        16020            100             6.40
4.02      The total cost of the proposed project including contingencies and
the foreign exchange component,are estimated at US."18.8  million and C;7.4
million, respectively. Approximately 68 percent of the cost is for construc-
tion of academic buildings and workshops, 8 percent for site development, 8
percent for professional fees, and 16 percent for furniture and equipment.
Since most of the land required is already owned by the government, land
costs have not been included within the project. The annual recurrent costs
have been estimated at approximately US$3.4 million.
A. Technical Features
Teacher Training College
4.03      This project item consists of the construction and equipment of a
new teacher training college at San Fernando with an enrollment of 440 students,
amounting to 65 percent of the present total teacher training enrollment in
Trinidad and 31 percent of the enrollment in the 15-year Education Plan. The
college, under the direct administrative control of the Ministry of Education,
would train pre-service and in-service teachers of all the subjects in the
primary and junior secondary school curricula. Pressure for admission is



- 15 -
expected to be high, about six applicants per place. Selection would be
made on a nation-wide basis but neither boarding facilities nor staff housing
would be required because of available accommodations in San Fernando and
an adequate public transportation system. One hundred primary school teacher
trainees and 120 junior secondary school teacher trainees would be admitted
annually beginning in 1970.
4.04      The primary school-and junior secondary school teacher training
curricula are well conceived. In addition to the formal instruction, all
students will spend 12 weeks per year in supervised full-time practice
teaching in nearby schools.
4.05      Based upon the proposed student-teacher ratio of 20:1, which is
acceptable, a total of 70 teachers would be required in 1971 for the three
large teacher training colleges; of this number, 22 teachers would be re-
quired for the project teacher training college at San Fernando. Considering
the teachers employed at present in the existing primary teacher training
colleges who could be assigned to the three large colleges by the M4inistry
of Education as the smaller institutions are phased-out, approximately 30
teacher trainers would have to be recruited by 1971. In view of the present
low qualifications of the teacher training staff and especially since over
half of the trainees of the proposed teacher training colleges will be
preparing for teaching in junior secondary schools, an up-grading as well
as an expansion of the teacher training corps is required. Consequently,
the additional teacher trainers required by 1971 should be university grad-
uates with a degree in education or with a post-graduate diploma in edu-
cation. The government has agreed that recruits with lower qualifications
would be provided with appropriate training prior to 1971, and that a
description of-these training programs would be submitted to the Bank for
prior approval.
4.o6      The Canadian government has been assisting in the development of
teacher training in Trinidad since 1963 and has provided six teachers to the
Mausica TTC; the program will end in July, 1965, with the departure of the
last two Canadian teachers. The San Fernando Teacher Training College will
require similar assistance during its initial years to develop curricula and
to set standards of performance for the teaching staff and the student body.
Since it is unlikely that teacher trainers with the necessary educational
background and experience can be recruited within Trinidad in adequate num-
bers to accomplish this task, the Trinidadian government has agreed to employ
at least three qualified and experienced teacher trainers for this college
for at least its first three years of operation.
Senior Secondary Schools
4.07      This project item consists of the construction and equipping of
three new senior comprehensive secondary schools and the provision of work-
shops, drafting rooms, domestic science rooms, typing rooms, and laboratories
in three existing secondary schools which would enable them to expand their
enrollment and convert to the comprehensive type of secondary school.



- 16 -
4.08      This project item would provide a needed increase in the capacity
of the senior secondary school system consistent with the Fifteen-Year Edu-
cational Development Plan (1968-1983) and, by providing a two-year program
in practical courses, would produce secondary school leavers at G.C.E. "O"
level who would be more suited for technical employment or higher technical
education. The six comprehensive secondary schools would have a capacity of
6,400 student places (Annex 14), including 1,460 existing places in the three
schools to be converted, and would represent the only increase in the senior
secondary school system until 1975. When completely full in 1974, the project
senior secondary schools would enroll 27% of the senior secondary students and
would assist in increasing the percentage of the relevant age enrolled from
the existing 13.1% to 14.7%.
4.09      All project schools would be government secondary schools located
in centers of population distributed throughout Trinidad and Tobago. Girls
would constitute approximately one-half of the enrollment of all the schools.
4.10      Students would be admitted to the senior secondary schools on the
basis of marks attained in a nation-wide examination to be devised and ad-
ministered by the Ministry of Education to students completing Form III of
the junior secondary schools. The number of qualified applicants for ad-
mission to the project schools would be adequate, with the ratio of junior
secondary school leavers in the counties in which the senior secondary
schools are to be located to the seats available ranging between 2 to 1 to
3 to 1. Students would be selected for one of the practical streams or the
academic stream by the Ministry of Education on the basis of their perform-
ance in junior secondary schools, the junior secondary school leaving
certificate examination, and the judgment of the junior secondary school
principals.
4.11      The comprehensive schools in this project, with planned programs
in four specialized fields, would be the first of their kind in Trinidad
and Tobago and would exert a strong influence upon the orientation of second-
ary school education toward pre-vocational training. Students in the prac-
tical streams would schedule 12 hours of instruction per week in specialized
subjects of their chosen field. The balance of the curriculum, the academic
standards, and examination procedures would be the same as in the academic
stream. On completion of the two-year course, students would sit for the
General Certificate of Education, "O" Level.
4.12      Because the technical courses would be taught to provide a basis
for further training in industry or in higher technical education, procedures
would be devised which would ensure equality of opportunity among the prac-
tical stream students and the academic stream students for admission to the
1000 Form VI places to be provided in the project schools.
4.13      The provision of practical courses in the variety and depth pro-
posed in this project would represent a responsibility new to the Ministry
of Education which the M4inistry could not discharge effectively with
its present staff. Therefore, to assist the Ministry of Education in
the supervision of the initiation of the practical courses, including



- 17 -
the preparation of syllabi and the establishment of a special technical
teacher training program, the government has agreed to employ three expe-
rienced specialists in appropriate types of technical education for a
period of at least three years.
Junior SecondarY Schools
4.14      This project item consists of the construction and equipping of
16 newi junior secondary-schools located in centers of population through-
out Trinidad and Tobago. The project would provide equipped classrooms,
laboratories, workshops, libraries and covered assembly/dining areas. A
total of 15,120 places would be constructed.
4.15      All the new junior secondary schools-would operate on two shifts
of 6 periods per day from 7:30 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. and from 12:30 p.m. to
5:15 p.m. Two groups of teachers and one supervisory staff would be re-
quired per school. Because of the double shifts, the enrollment in these
schools would be 30,240 pupils; approximately half would be girls.   This
enrollment would represent an increase of 168,'< of the existing enrollment
and would correspond to 57,L of the planned enrollment at junior secondary
level in 197h, when the project schools would be completely filled. The
junior secondary school system then would accommodate 59%t of the relevant
age group, as compared to 24% at present.
4.16      Until sufficient junior secondary schools are constructed to
accommodate the entire output from the primary school system, admission
to these junior secondary schools would be determined by the applicant's
performance in the national Common Entrance Examination.
4.17      The curriculum for the junior secondary schools is well balanced
and includes some practical courses.
Teachers for the Project Secondary Schools
4.18      Most of the 495 non-graduate teachers employed in existing
secondary schools will transfer to the new junior secondary school system.
Other new junior secondary schools, not within this project, would begin
operations in 1974 but would not require significant numbers of teachers
until 1975, when the demand for additional teachers for this project would
be low. Consequently, the requirements for properly trained teachers for
the project junior secondary schools should be met if the planned increases
in the output of the teacher training colleges are realized,
4.19      lqo difficulty is anticipated in recruiting teachers of English,
literature, social studies, and foreign languages in the required numbers
(Annex 15) for the senior secondary schools, but the recruitment of science
and mathematics teachers and-properly qualified practical course teachers
will require special efforts. The government has given assurances that
sufficient numbers of scholarships will be reserved for study in science
and mathematics so that adequate numbers of graduates in science and math-
ematics would be available to meet the needs of the project and non-project
senior secondary schools.



4.20      Teachers of commercial subjects, home economics, and the shop
courses in the technology stream would be graduates of a three-year di-
ploma course at the John Donaldson Technical Institute and a one-year-
teacher training course which-would be instituted especially for them
at an appropriate institution. About one-half of the teachers of the
agricultural courses would be university graduates and the other half
would be graduates of the two-year post-secondary agricultural course
at the Eastern Caribbean Farm Institute with the special one-year teacher
training course mentioned above. One agricultural teacher training
specialist, acceptable to the Bank, iyould be employed for a period of
three years to initiate the teacher training program for the agricultural
teachers. Sufficient numbers of diploma holders in appropriate technical sub-
jects are available now and could receive the required teacher training to
meet the demands of the project schools in 1971 and 1972. The time required to
plan the training of the teachers needed after 1972 is adequate.
Instructional Equipment
4.21      Lists of instructional equipment have been prepared in suffi-
cient detail to permit a reasonable-estimate of the amount of money re-
quired to equip the project schools. Final review and approval by the
Bank would be postponed until modification and up-dating of the equipment
lists could be completed by the teacher trainer and technical teacher
specialists who would be employed to assist in the planning and-implemen-
tation of the teacher training and technical education programs.
B. Costs
4.22      The estimated capital costs of the various parts of the proposed
project and the estimated foreign exchange component are shown in U.S.
dollar equivalents:



- 19 -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
BY MAJOR CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURE
Total                     Foreign
US$ Million     % of         Exchange
Construction             Equivalent     Project     US$ Million
School buildings             11.06         59           3.65
Site Development              1.33          7           0.44
Professional Fees             1.24          7           0.50
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COST      13.63         73           4.59
Equipment
Furniture                     1.37          7           o.68
Instructional Equipment       1.20          6           1.14
TOTAL EQUIP1tENT COST         2.57         13           1.82
TOTAL              16.20         86           6.41
Contingencies       2.59         14           1.03
TOTAL PROJECT COST           18.79        100           7.44
4023      Unit construction costs per square foot of US$8 for workshop
spaces, and up to US$10 for academic buildings are reasonable for the
Port of Spain area. For other parts of Trinidad and Tobago, a cost
increase ranging from 5% for the districts near Port of Spain to 20%
for Tobago is required to cover transportation costs. The unit costs
per square foot are exclusive of professional fees and are derived from
recent building experience, taking into account the effect of the deval-
uation of the TT dollar.
4.24      Alteration costs for the converted schools are included in the
estimates and are reasonable. Site development costs have been estimated
on the basis of austere standards.
4.25      Built-in furniture costs are included in the unit costs per
square foot for buildings. The cost of other furniture, based on present
prices, has been estimated as a separate item.
4.26      The total estimated project cost includes 10% for unforeseen
expenditures and 6% to cover anticipated escalation of prices during the
project period, This latter percentage is based on price increases during
the last five years.
4.27      The foreign exchange component ranges from 33% of the construc-
tion cost to 95% for equipment, Nearly all of the latter would have to be



- 20 -
imported. All clay products and cement are locally made but all other -
building materials, electric equipment, and sanitary fixtures are imported.
Furniture is locally manufactured but imported materials and fittings rep-
resent 50 percent of the furniture cost. The foreign exchange expenditures
on professional services are estimated at 40 percent because of the likeli- -
hood that international as well as local firms of architects may be employed.
4.28      The project would absorb about 84 percent of total capital out-
lays on education over the next five years. By 1974; when all the project
institutions would be filled, they would absorb TT$6.7 million a year, or
11 percent of the Ministry of Education's recurrent budget.
C. Construction
Land
4.29      Most of the 23 sites have been selected and are owned by the gov-
ernment.- Seven of the sites have been acquired and the balance are being
acquired. Government land acquisition procedures are efficient and the gov-
ernment has given assurances that all land required at each site wrould be
available as needed for site investigations and construction.
Accommodation
4.30      Classroom sizes are based on 15 square feet per student.   This area
and the other areas proposed for laboratories, workshops, and special class-
roorms for practical subjects are reasonable.
Architectural Services
4.31      Because the IMinistry of-;`orks is understaffed, private firms of
architects,-engineers and quantity surveyors would be engaged to execute
the project. In order to achieve economies through standardization, one
firm of architects would be in overall charge of all project schools and
would be commissioned to design the basic structural and spatial arrange-
ments to be incorporated within all the project secondary-schools and to
prepare guidelines for the detailed design of each school. Since a local
firm with the necessary experience to perform this portion of the design
work would not likely-be found, an international firm of architects prob-
ably would be engaged. This firm could associate with local architects,
civil engineers, and quantity surveyors in the detailed design of the indi-
vidual schools. The consultant architects, acceptable to the Bank, respon-
sible for the basic design and overa.l1 supervision of the project schools
should be appointed prior to declaring effective the loan agreement.
Fxecution of the Project
4.32      A Project Unit would be established within the Ministry of Works
to administer the project in close coordination with the Ministry of
Education.   The unit, consisting of three sections   --  architectural/



- 21 -
engineering, equipment procurement, and accounting--would be under the
supervision of a full-time project director, an architect or engineer
acceptable to the Bank, who would be appointed prior to the signing of
the loan agreement.
4.33      The building industry in Trinidad and Tobago has the capacity
to handle the proposed volume of construction within the project period
(Annex 17). To avoid inflationary pressures on building costs, the maxi-
mum number of schools to be started in any one year would be eight
representing about 10 percent to 15 percent of the present total capacity
of the building industry. All construction, furniture and equipment
contracts would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding. In evaluating bids for the supply of furniture or instructional
equipment, locally produced goods would be allowed a preferential margin
of up to 15% of the cif landed costs of imported goods exclusive of duties
or other taxes.
4.34      Withdrawals from the Loan Account would reimburse the direct
foreign exchange expenditures in the execution of the project subsequent
to the date of the Loan Agreement. In addition, a percentage of the
remaining expenditures would be reimbursed. This percentage would be
adjusted so that withdrawals would not exceed U.S.$9.4 million or 50 per-
cent of the actual project cost, whichever may be the smaller; undisbursed
amounts would be available for cancellation. In the event that expenditures
should exceed the present estimated project cost of U.S.$18e8 million, such
excess would be met by the Trinidadian Government. Expenditures (Annex 17),
based upon the recommended schedule of construction, are expected to vary
from U.S.$o.4 million in the first year to a maximum of U.S.$7.3 million
in the third year.



- 22 -
V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOWYENDATIONS
5.01      The proposed project would increase the numbers of qualified
primary and junior secondary school teachers and secondary school
leavers better prepared to meet the needs of the country, and would
assist in the development of a major re-structuring and re-orientation
of the education system of Trinidad and Tobago. The necessary elements
for successful implementation of the project are present and with
the following assurances, the project should achieve its objectives
at a reasonable cost.
5.02      Assurances have been obtained from the government on the
followinng:
(a) A secondary school inspectorate will be established with
sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to permit at least one annual
inspection of each public secondary school. (Para. 2.02).
(b) The teacher trainers required by the proposed expansion of
the primary and junior secondary teacher training system will be univer-
sity graduates with a degree in education or a post-graduate diploma in
education. Any recruits with lower qualifications wjill be provided with
appropriate training prior to 1971. The program for the training of such
recruits w ill be agreed in advance with the Bank. (Para. 4.05).
(c) Sufficient numbers of scholarships will be reserved for
study in science and mathematics so that adequate numbers of graduates
in science and mathematics -Till be available to meet the needs of the
project and non-project senior secondary schools. (Para. 4.19).
(d) Four teacher training specialists and three technical
educators, acceptable to the Bank, will be employed for at least three
years to assist the Ministry of Education in initiating the junior
secondary school teacher training and the new practical senior secondary
school streams.   (Paras. 4.06, 4.13, 4.20).
(e) A project unit will be established within the Ministry
of Works to provide adequate technical, financial, and administrative
supervision of the project. (Para. 4.32).
5.03      In addition, a full-time project director, an engineer
acceptable to the Bank, has been selected and wvill be appointed prior
to the signing of the loan agreement. (Para. 4.32).



- 23 -
5.04      The appointment of consultant architects, acceptable to the
Bank, responsible for the basic design and overall supervision of the
project schools Trill be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
agreement. (Para. 4.31).
5.05      Subject to the assurances and the fulfillment of the
conditions described above, the project would provide a suitable basis
for the proposed loan of US$9e4 million for 25 years, including a
ten-year grace period.
September 26, 1968



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: OUTLINE OF SCHOOL SYSTEM
UNIVERSITY OF WEST INDIES
Preliminary.
SECONDARY                    SIXTH FORM
PRIMARY TEACHER
TRAINING COLLEGES
EAST CARIBBEAN
INFANT               PRIMARY                POST-PRIMARY                          FARM INSTITUTE
TECHNICAL INSTITUTES
* CERTIFICATE, DIPLOMA OR DEGREE AWARDED   -       1E                  <
CRAFT TRAINING            TECHNICIAN TRAINING
AGE    5    6       7     8    9     10   11         12    13     14    15    16         17         18          19    20    21
SCHOOL 1      2      3     4     5    6     7          8     9      10    I 1   12         13         14         15     16   17
YEAR
z
z
(R)IBRD.-3722  X
J_



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE
MINISTER OF EDUCATION
PERMANENT SECRETARY
PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT            CHIEF EDUCATION OFFICER                 FINANCE
PLANNING  EXAMINATIONS    EDUCATION    BROADCASTING     FURTHER      PUBL ICATION    EDUCATION
(2R)IBRD-3723 X
N



TRINIDAD AND ToBko)
Primary and Post Primary Enrollment (Public Schools)
Grades and Progression Bates 1/
lst      Prog.    2nd      Prog.             Prog.              Prog.              Prog.               Prog.         Prog.        Prog.
Year     Itants     Rate   Infants   Rate      1        Rate      2       Rate        3       Rate      4        Bate      5    Rate   6    Rate    7      Total
1962     32,291            24,756            26,808             22,53              21,502             19,736             24,1        12,289        8,258   192,315
69\         ~~~102              89                104                 101                141            TO  \       98
1963     26,38 5           22,30             25,280          -'3,930                23,520            21,697             27,886      16,571          a ,Ul4  199,591
99        I      17                 92                 94                  98                 JJ\                       61
1964     34,550            2 6,153        -  26,164             23,357              22,491          21,996            30,558         16,832   \1,112       212,243
76               11                                   101                 103               29              5            57
1965     34,888            26,215            26,459              3,995             23s670             23,181            28,300       1,901         9,448   212,107
1/ Percentage of pupilB proceeding to next higher grade. Percentages above 100 are due to repeaters and returning dropouts.
June, 1968



ANNEX 4
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
Distribution of Enrollment by Standards at Primary and Post-Primary Level(public) 1965
Government Schools                  Assisted Schools                     Total Public Schools
% Of                                % Of                                   S:of
Standard 1                          Standard 1                             Standard 1
BOY    Girls  Total Enrollment     Boys   Girls   Total Enrollment      Boys   Girls   Total    Enrollment
Primary
Infants 1st year    3998   3750   7748                1403li  13106    27140               18032   16856   34883
Infants 2nd year    2847   2905   5752                10398    10065   20463               13245   12970   26215
Standard 1       3230   2934   6164      100.0     10440     9855   20295    100.0      13670   12789   26459       100.0
Standard 2       2966   2615   5581       90.6      9270     9144   18414     91.0      12236   11759   23995        91.0
Standard 3       2699   2516   5215       84.5      9260     9195   18455     91.0      11959   11711   23670        90.0
Standard 4       2458   2265   4723       76.7      9294    9164   18458      91.0      11752   11429   23181        88.0
Standard 5       3644   3688   7332      118.9     9933    11035    20968    103.0      13577   14723   28300       107.0
Sub-Total     21842  20673  42515               72629    71574  144193                94471   92237  186708
Post-Primary
Standard 6       1995   1870   3865       63.2     6326     5710    12036     59.0       8321    7580  15901         60.2
Standard 7       1579   1429   3008       48.8     3483      2997    6480     32.0       5062    4426   9488         36.0
Sub-Total      3574   3299   6873                9809     8707   18516                13383   12006  25389
TOTAL       25416  23972  49388               82438    80281  162709               107854  104243 212097



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: EDUCATION STRUCTURE AND ENROLLMENT (1965)
YEAR OF      FORMS    STANDARDS
SCHOOL
17                                                                                           UNIVERSITY OF WEST INDIES AT ST AUGUSTINE
(TRINIDADIANS, BOYS AND GIRLS 530)
16
15
1 4     M (UPPER)                      TECHNICAL INSTITUTES -                                                 RIMARY TEACIHER TRAINING
4                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(BOYS AND GIRLS 800)                                                COLLEGES
(BOYS AND GIRLS 550)
13      M (LOWER)I
U)         12
0~
a-0
- o  o  m   7                  BOYS                                                                         GIRLS
10         3N
o       ~~9         3I          7
z
8           I          6
0 7                    5
6                      4
4r0
S t i      5                       3
a311-..---.:.. ... .
4                      2
3 
g                                               '       1-         -I     -    '     --
20,000       15,000       10,000        5,000          0          5,000        10,000       15,000
POST-PRIMARY                                BOYS                                                 GIRLS                           z
rn
(3R) IBRD - 3724  x
ILn



ANNEX 6
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
Distribution of Enrollment by Forms at Secondary Level (public) 1965
Governmnt Schools                     Assisted Schools                     Total Public Schools
% of                                  % of                                   X of
Form 1                                Form 1                                 Form 1
Boys    Girls   Total   Enrollment    Boys    Girls   Total   Enrollment     Boys    Girls   Total   Enrollment
Junior Secondary
1            1058     1412    2470      100.0      1308    1331     2639       100.0      2366    2743    5109        100.0
2             903    U60      2063       83.0      1172    1361    2533         96.o      2075    2521    4596         90.0
3             890     968     1858       75.0      1372    1508    2880       109.0       2262    2476    4738         93.0
Sub-Total           2851    3540    6391                 3852    4200     8052                  6703    7740   14443
Senior Secondary
4             784    1020     1804       73.0      1383    1359    2742        104.0      2167    2379    4546         89.0
5             884      901    1785       72.0      1857    1220    3077        117.0      2741    2121    4862         95.0
L6              96      23      119        4.8       229     204     433         16.4       325     227     552         10.8
U6              69       14      83        3.4       288     216     504         19.1       357     230     587         11.5
Sub-Total          1833     1958    3791                 3757    2999     6756                  5590    4957   10547
TOTAL              4684     5498   10182                 7609    7199   14808                  12293   12697   24990



TR'NIDAD AND TOBAGO
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
Present
Admission               Completion      Annual Intake    Enrollment      1966
Institution        Administration   Courses      Duration       Requirements                Award        Capacity(Day)   Ea f   Ening    Output
Point Fortin           Ministry of      Industrial     3 Years  Primary School          Trinidad and Tobago       20          61     115       16
Vocational Center      Education        Trades                  Leaving Certificate     National Certificate
San Fernando           Ministry of      Industrial     3 Years  Primary School          Trinidad and Tobago       90         257     114       37
Technical Institute    Education        Trades &                Leaving Certificate     National Craft Cert.
Technicians    3 Years   Three "O"' Level G.C.E. Trinidad and Tobago       30         111      86        0
(Engineering)            CertLficate            National Technician
Certificate
John Donaldson         Ministry of      Industrial     3 Years   Primary School         Trinidad and Tobago      120          363    861       52
Technical Institute    Education        Trades &                 Leaving Certificate    National Craft Cert.
Technicians
(Business      3 Years   Three GCE "Oil          Trinidad and Tobago       60         160     103       0
Management,             Level Passes             National Technician
Home Eco-                                        Certificate
nomics,
Commercial,
Engineering)
East Caribbean         Ministry of      Agricultural   2 Years   Five GCE 1"0"1          Trinidad and Tobago       50          73      0        22
Farm Institute         Agriculture      Technicians             Level Passes             National Agriculture
Diploma
Six Secondary Schools Board of          Industrial   3-4 Years   Varying GCE "Of        Trinidad and Tobago     Varies        0      572    not available
and Electricity        Industrial       Trades                  Level Passes             National Craft
Commission Center      Trading                                                           Certificate
I2



ANNEX 8
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
UNIVERSlTY OF THE WEST INDIES
St. Augustine
Student Registration 1967/68 (as at 24/10/67)
Men      Women           Total
B.Sc. Agriculture
Preliminary Science Students             9         -             9
Year I                                29.        1            30
Year II                               23         4            27
Year III                              19         -            19
Diploma in Tropical Agriculture       20         1            21
Post Graduate                         30         7            37
130        13           143 (40j
Arts - Day
BA. Qualifying Course                   30        24            54
Second Year                             32        26            58
Final Year                              59        53           112
Post Graduate                            1         1             2
122       107           22   223
Arts - Evening                          71        29          (100)
BSc. Engineering
Preliminary Science Students            35        -             35
Year I                               109        -            109
Year II                               87         2            89
Year III                              48        -             48
Post Graduate                         18        -             18
297         2           299 (14j
Natural Sciences - Day
Preliminary Science Students            21         5            26
1st Year                              37        20            57
Part II Year I                        16         6            22
Final Year                            20         7            27
Post Graduate                          8         -             8
102        3_           140  13
Natural Sciences - Evening              21         1           (22)
BSc. Economics
Part I                                  25         3            28
Part II Year I                          18         4            22
Part II Year II                         31         1            32
Diploma in Management Studies            9        -              9
_7i         7            913
TOTALS                                 827       194         1,021 (746)
NOTE:  Bracketed figures indicate the students whoare citizens of Trinidad
and Tobago.



ANNEX 9
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
PUBLIC CAPITAL EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION                        (TT$000)
Provisional
1963         16           1965         1966         1967         1968
1. Total government capital
expenditure                     61,356       62,566       57,861       60,308       58,558       78,C00
2. Public capital expenditure
on education                     1,921        2,606        3,635        4,597        4,838       10,165
3.  (2) as percent of (1)                3.1%         4.2%         6.3%         7s6%         8.2%        13,0%
4.  Public capital expenditure
on education composed of:
a) Ministry of Education           1,455        1,465        2,682        3,926        4,206        8,650
b) Ministry of Agriculture           -            -            -            -              9          500
c) Ministry of Finance 1/            345          860          724          625          528          719
d) Ministry of Tobago Affairs        121          281          22            46                       296
1; g-N       2,606        3,634          =9         74          lo-, 1 5 
5. Ministry of Education capital
expenditure as percent of
public capital expenditure
on education                      75.7%        56.2%        73.8%        85.4%        86.9%        85.1%
6. Ministry of Education capital
expenditure composed of:
a) Primary education                 315          231          276          485        1,202        1,000
b) Secondary education               901          734          838          473          406        1,250
c) Technical and vocational           67          121          412          878          116           87
d) Teacher training                  172          109          168           29          283          230
e) UWI                               -           270          912        1,955        1,936        5,8oo
f) Other                                                        76          106          263          313
757          3,926        4,206          ,65
Note: See page 2, Annex 1* for footnotes.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
PUBLIC RECURRENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION                         (TT$OOO)
Provisional
1963          19641        1965         1966         1967          1968
1. Total government recurrent
expenditure (excl. capital  166,809       186,522      189,793       203,592      213,511      232,289
repayments).
2. Public recurrent expenditure
on education                 26,582        29,978       31,842       40,028        44,893       46,350
3.  (2) as percent of (1)            15.9%         16.1%        16.8%        19.7%         21.0%14      20.0%
4. Public recurrent expenditure
on education composed of:
a) Ministry of Education       22,062        241,100      26,2.80       32,902       37,232       38,5841
b) Ministry of Agriculture         419           8h           118          1413         150          269
c) Ministry of Finance l/r2/7                    14           114           16           ho           ho
d) Ministry of Tobago Affairs   1,174         1   53        1,691        2,090        1,693        1,838
e) Common Services (wil) 3/     3,220         4,506         3 739        4,877        5,778        5,619
~ 26,72      -29,978         48 10,025               44893        116,350
5. Ministry of Education recurrent
expenditure as percent of      8 3.0%        80.41%        82.5%        82.2%        82.9%        83.2%
public recurrent expenditure
on education.
6. Ministry of Education recurrent
expenditure composed of:
a) Primnary education          15,6341       16,337        16,4131      23,569       23,896       241,337
b) Secondary education          1,528          5,1341       6,1841       1,839        8,3749       8,721
c) Technicalrand vocational      7411            620         9116          908        1,2849       1,35021
d) Teacher training                356           54i7         756          7084         915          960   |
e) UTer 4/ r                                      18          202          2148         137          399
f) Adult education                  51            50           88          125           96           85   °-
NoteSeP~ Other                            753         1 3911       1,673         2,509        2,565        2,732
Not:SJp.2,Annex 12 for footnotes.    !2,062                     26,250       32,902       37,232       -3B78



ANNEX II
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: RECURRENT
EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
(MILLIONS      OF   TT$)
70                                      I        I       I                            70
60                                                                           _     ,60
TOTAL PUBLIC RECURRENT                         -   6
EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
50                                                          .'                         50
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION   ,
TOTAL RECURRENT    -     -         -
TEACHER TRAINING                      EXPENDITURE   -            -      ,,
40                                                                                    40
TECHNICAL AND ... -. -,-_
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION/\ -OTE-,..
30                                                                                    30
/          {-:..>///~~SECONDARY EDUCATION          _
20.                                                                                   20
X~~~~~~~~~MR EDUCATIO
0                                                                                    0
1963     1964     1965     1966     1967     1968     1969     1970     1971     1972
(Est.)   (Est.)
ACTUAL                                      P   E C Al T
(3R) I BRD- 3721



ANNEX 12
TRINInAD AND TOBAGO
TOTAL PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION                             (TT$000)
Provisional
2,963        1964          1_65          1966         19671968
1. Total government expenditure
(excl. capital repayments)            228,165      249,088       247,654      263,900       278,Q15       312,357
2. Public expenditure on education           28,503        32,584       35,477        44,625       49,731        56,515
3.  (2) as percent of (1)                      12.5%         13.1%        14.3%         16.9%        17.9%         18,1%
4.  (2) as percent of GDP at factor cost        2.7%          3-0%         3.2%          3.7%         4.0%          4.3%
5. Public expenditure on education
composed of:
(a) Ministry of Education                23,517       25,565        28,962       36,828        41,438        47,234
(b) Ministry of Agriculture                  49           84           118          143           159           769
(c) Ministry of Finance 1/                  422          905           738          641           568           759
(d) Ministry of Tobago AYfairs L/         1,295        1,524         1,920        2,136         1,788         2,134
(e) Common Services (UWI) 2d/               _O     ,    2     2    0    39     43.73                          5 619
2, 03       32 ,654       15b,        5       15tt
6. Ministry of Education expenditure
as percent of public expenditure
on education                             82.5%        78.5%         81.6%        82.5%         83.3%         83.6%
7. Ministry of Education expenditure
composed of:
(a) Primary education                    15,949       16,568        16,707       24,o54        25,098        25,337
(b) Secondary education                   5,429        5,868         7,022        5,312         8,780         9,971
(c) Technical and vocational                807          741         1,'58        1,786         1,365         1,437
(d) Teacher training                        528          656           924          733         1,198         1,160
(e) UWI                                    - _           288         1,114        2,203         2,073         6,199
(f) Adult education                          51           5o            88          125            96            85
(g) Other                              74.79                                                    2828          3045
T, 177        2   5         8,96-2 2  4 1   0,23
8. Ratio of public recurrent to
capital expenditure                    13.8/1       11.5/1         8.8/1        8.7/1         9.3/1         4.6/1



ATNEX 12
Page 2
TRINIDAD AiND TOBAGO
NOTES TO EDUCATION EXPENDITURE TABLES
The Ministry of Finance makes loans to overseas students
out of its recurrent budget and finances a scholarship
program out of capital funds.
All educational expenditures on the island of Tobago are
channelled through the Ministry of Tobago Affairs.
The government's regular contribution to the regional
University of the West Indies is financed as a current
expenditure under Common Services.
Ministry of Education recurrent expenditures on the Uni-
versity of the West Indies are largely to cover fees of
nationals studying at the University's St. Augustine
campus (Trinidad). Capital expenditures are for construc-
tion of new facilities for the College of Arts and Sciences
at this campus.



ANNEX 13
TRINIDAD A-4D TOBAGO
TECHNICAL LSSISTANCE SCHOLARSHIPS
1962      1963       1964      1965      1966     1967
No. of Awards
Canada       2         4        24         51         27       10
U.K.        25        42        48         48         63       42
U.N.        1          6         5          8         15       14
U.S.        4         13        11          8          4       12
Others      5          5        10          8          6        4
TOTAL      37         70        98        123        115       82
ivan/Years
Canada      5          4        49         92         36        6
U.K.       28         45        43         44         63       37
U.N.        0          8         4          3          8       11
U.S.         3         7         6          7          3        7
Others     15         10        16         11          5        7
TOTAL      51         74       118        157        1:5       68
Source: Administration of Foreign Technical Assistance, 1967, Ministry of
Economic Planning and Development.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENROLLMENTS IN PROJECT SENIOR COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS
Forms IV-V
Practical                                  Form VI
Forms IV-V                                             Home        Total      (Lower & Upper)     Total
School                       Academic       Technology  Agriculture   Commerce   Economics   Practical       Academic       Enrollment
A. New Schools
St. Augustine                      780            90           60          180         90          420            200           1,400
Rio Claro                          300            30           120          60         90          300            160             760
Scarborough                        54°            30           120          60         90          300            120             960
Sub-Total                        1.620           150          300          300        270        1.020            480           3.120
B. Converted Schools
Port of Spain                      300           180            -          180        120          480             -              780
North Eastern                      540            90           90          150         90          420            280           1,240
Point Fortin                       540           120           90          180         90          480            240           1.260
Sub-Total                        1.300           390          180           l         300        1.380            520           3.280
Present Enrollment                 600             0            0            0          0            0            160           1,460-*
C.  New and Converted Schools                                                                                                 1,820 additional
enrollment
Total Enrollment                 3.000           50           i480         810          7        2.400          1.000           6.400
*/  Includes  700 junior secondary schoo] places to be converted to senicr secondary.



ANNEXJ5
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
PROJECT SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER REQUIREiMENTS
.
Subject            1971      -     1972   A     1973    A     1974
English/Literature        8     12      20     10     30      12     42
Science                  16     24      4O     18     58      23     81
Mathematics               8     11      19     10     29      12     41
Social Studies           11     16      27     13     40     15      55
Foreign Language          8     10      18      7     25      11     36
Art/crafts                4       2      6      0      6       2      8
Technology                8      7      15      1     16 .     4     20
Agriculture               4      4       8      1      9       3     12
Commercial                9     10      19      3     22       6     28
Home Economics            c      6      11      2     13       4     17
A A    - required increment



TRINIDAD kLD TOB o: ESTIMAT  CAPITAL COSTS OF PItJBCT (000)
Cost Of
Nwuber 1/   Cost of Sits    Cost of   Professional   Cost of      Cost of
Code           Nam of School                           of Stuienta    Development   Bnildinsp     Serwices    Firniture     qipnt        T o t a 1  C o a t
A. Nev Junior Secondary Schools                                    TT$          TT$          TT$         TT$          Tr$          TTh         UE$
101    Diego Martin                                       1,920          88.39        883.88       97.23        126.53       67.62      1,263.65      631.83
102    Mucurapo                                           1,920          88.39        883.88       97.23        126.53       67.62      1,263.65      631.83
106    Barataria                                         1,920           88.39        883.88       97.23       126.53        67.62      1,263.65      631.83
107     Cmrepe                                            1,920          88.39        883.88        97.23      126.53        67.62      1,263.65      631.83
Con's                                                    1,920          97.23        972.27      106.95       126.53        67.62      1,370.60      685.30
112    Chaguanas                                          1,920          97.23        972.27       106.95       126.53       67.62      1,370.60      685.30
113     Carapichaima                                      1,440          80.41        804.12        88.45       100.88       54.56      1,128.42      564.21
116    San Fernando Eat                                   1,920         152.47       1,016.46      116.8S       126.53       67.62      1,479,97      739.99
118    Marabella, San Fernando                            1,920         152.47       1,016.46      116.89       126.53       67.62      1,479,97      739.99
124    Penal                                              1,920         1W8.49        989.95       113.84       126.53       67.62      1,446.43      723.22
125    Point Fortin                                       1,920         148.49         989.95      113.84       126.53       67.62      1,446.43      723.22
131    Five Rivers                                        1,920          88.39        883.88        97.23       126.53       67.62      1,263.65      631.83
132    Arangues                                           1,920          88.39        883.88        97.23       126.53       67.62      1,263.65      631.83
133    mt. Hope                                           1,920          88.39        883.88        97.23       126.53       67.62      1,263.65      631.83
134    Monroe Road                                        1,920          97.23        972.27       106.95       126.53       67.62      1,370.60      685.3o
135    Gasparillo                                         1.920         152.47       l.016.46      116.89       126.53       67.62      1.479.97      739.92
3Sb-Total               30,240        1,745.22     14,937.37    1,668.26     1,998.83    1,068.86     21,418.54    10,709.33
Foreign Exhnge Comonents   C                            575.92      4s,929.33     667.30       9S9.42    1,015.42      8,187.39    4,093.70
33%           33%         40           50%         95%
B. Nev Senior Cosrehnsive Schools
202    St. AIguatine                                      1,400          139.86      1,398.62      153.85       163.93      195.oo      2,051.26    1,025.63
204    Rio Claro                                           760          154.18       1,027.84      118.20       97.94       165.00      1,563.16      781.58
207    Scarborough, Tobago                                 960          192.36       1,282.37      147.47       116.33      225.00      1,963.53      981.77
Sub-Total                3,120          486.40      3,708.83      419.52       378.20      585.00      5,577.95     2,788.98
Foreign Excha g  Coont:    (                            160.51      1,223.91      167.81       189.10      555.75      2,297.08    1,148.54
33%           33%         40%          50%         95%
C. Extension to Senior C   ruhenive Schools
302    South Hast, Port of Spain            ( 610         1,260-/        68.09        680.92        74.90        75.12      147.20      1,046.23      523.12
304    North Estern                      2/ C 760         1,240          97.46        974.56       107.20       107.61      187.20      1,474.03      737.02
307    Point Fortin                         (570          1,260         153.53       1,023.50      117.70       102.82      187.20      1.584.75      792.38
Sub-Total                3.760          319.08      2,678.98      299.80       285.55      521.60      4,105.01     2,052.52
Foreign Exchange Componaet:  (                          105.30        884.06      119.92       142.78      495.52      1,747.58      873.79
33%           33%         40%          5o%         95%
D. Teacher Training College
102    San Fernando Teacher Traiing College                              118.68        791.20       90.99        74.91      224.40  _   1.300.18      650.W9
Foreign Exchange Component:  C                           39.16        261.10       36.4o        37.46      213.18        587.30      293.65
33%           33%    - -  40%          50%         95%
ORAND TOTAL                             2,669.38     22,116.38    2,478.57     2,737.49     2,399.86     32,401.68   16,200.92
Foreign Exchange Component                              880.89      7,298.40      991.43     1,368.76    2,279.87     12,819.35     6,409.68
1/ In Category A, total for two shifts.
2/ Existing enrollment.
3/ Includes 4.80 junior secondary students.
september 1968



TRINIDAtD AND TOBAO) EIICATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDILE OF O3NSTRUlCTION AND TOTAL IZPENDI1URES
Constructian Phase 1                              Nonths    3   6   9   12    15   18   21    24| 27 1 30 | 33     36 | 39    42 |45 |    8   51 |54     57 | 60   63 1 66
101 Diego Martin                                                                                                                  US_ 16.5 4
102 Mucurapo                                                                                ...._....__------__.--___----/mil Lion
112 Chaguanas                                     _ _ _                                             x r-___.-____-           _    _    _    _    .        .   _   _   __io
302 Port of Spain, South East                      _      _                                 =     _         -------------------                        US$ .8.23
304 Sangre Grande, North Easternm                                                       = _ __ _ _ ____-.____-/                                        million
131 Five Rivers                                               _    _                                                             -
124 Penal                                                 _ _                                                 - - - - - - - - - - /
402 San Fernando, T.T.C.                           _ _  T _                                      3Cm  CC= _._ _   -----   ---
Construction Phase 2                                                                              US$ 10.7 -    \
116 San Fernando East                                                                                                                         c-
125 Point Fortin, New Junior                               &                                                                                 ----
207 Scarborough, Tobago                                                                          XI     00_ ------                    --------- 10
307 Point Fbrtin, Senior Ertension                                .a=                                                       -------------------
111 Couva                                                  00 CD             _                               u
132 Aranguez                                               OD       _                                                                  ---------
133 Mt. Hope                                                                                                                                   - _  m_
134 Monroe Road                                                                                      -__
Construction Phase 3                                                              US$ o.8
118 Marabella                                                                           ll                /     _                                 -- ---- ---------
204 Rio Claro                                             _                                                      - xx r                     -- ___ _        ---------
135 Gasparillo                                                    _]= =         _                                                                              ----
106 Barataria                                                                                                               3                      ---------
107 Curepe                                                         US$ 0.3                         _                                                          --------
113 Carapichaima                                                   mil ion\,_---__.__.____
202 St. Augustine =
Estimatd Animal R     ndite        US$ 0.38            US$ 3.00           US$ 7.33               US$ 5.83              US$ 1.69 US$ 0.56
million             million             million               million               million          million
Legend:                        Percentage of Totals:      2%                  16%                 39%                   31%                   9%                3%
&urvey, design, working drawings, specification, bills of quantities,
contract documents, prequaliftcation of contractors, international tender.
xxxxm= Constructian.
---------- Guarantee period.
September, 1968



TRINIDAD and TOBAGO
LOCATION OF PROPOSED SCHOOLS
CARIBBEAN      SEA                                                  co
h - B ricsenseMrtelot
$                                On(i go Morlin             $/
CisgooM curO: * r   A N ILS UN APUNA       ARIMA.
PORT-OF-SP- r'
TOBED A  O G 0AG                                   Arcngue zu Coi-orn
> :v e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nr Grandeuns  X
/   br^                          r4     -    /           T                                  \ .~~ A T L ANLT/IC
*  New junior secondary schoins
*  New senior secondary cooprenhen.ine schools    .         a
O   Converted senior secondary cospprenhe.sive schools
*  New  teacher  troining   college          Poin,te--Pierre.  5  9/
SAN FERNANDO SETEBE   New       G  d
PI PRINC
La B r"                     T.. N 
Js  ~   ~     ~~~ DEB Eh 
Po nt Fortinyaedt              en,                C.
Fu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                   loMa L 
SEPTEMBER 1968                                                                                                 IBRD -2246RI



