CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 808 NI
Loan Agreement
(Second Managua Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA
DATED MARCH 17, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 808 NI
Loan Agreement
(Second Managua Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA
DATED MARCH 17, 1972


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) atid EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Loan Agreement accept all the provisions
of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
and to the amendment of Section 6.02 (i) thereof to read as follows: "Any event
specified in paragraph (e) or (f) of Section 7.01 shall have occurred." (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Loan Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "the 1962 Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement between
the Guarantor and the Borrower dated October 2, 1962;
(b)   "Mgd" means millions of gallons of water per day; and
(c)   "Reglamento " means the regulations governing the organization and
operations of the Borrower, contained in Decreto Ejecutivo No. 17B
of the Guarantor, dated June 29, 1963, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in this Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand dollars ($6,900,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement,
as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Loan
Agreement and to be financed under this Loan Agreement; provided, however,
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member
of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
(other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, as
revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-quarters of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of seven and
one-quarter per cent (7-1/4%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.09. If and as the Bank shall from time to time request, the Borrower
shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal amount of the Loan
as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.


﻿5
Section 2.10. The Gerente General of the Borrower and such other person
or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, financial, administrative
and public utility practices and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts
A, B, C, D, E and G of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering and
management consultants acceptable to the Bank to an extent and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   Without any limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall (i)
review with the Bank the management consultants' findings and recommendations
resulting from the carrying out of Part G of the Project; and (ii) not later than
September 30, 1972, or such other date as may be agreed with the Bank, establish
a program of management improvements acceptable to the Bank, based upon such
recommendations.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project, except
for installations which, in the reasonable judgment of the Bank, are of a simple
nature, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Projet-(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain its existence and
right to carry on operations and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b)   The Borrower shall operate and maintain all its plants, equipment and
property and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof
in accordance with sound engineering standards, and at all times manage its affairs,
operate its plants and equipment and maintain its financial position, in accordance
with sound business and public utility practices, under the supervision of
experienced and competent management.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views on any appointment to the post of Sub-Gerente of the Borrower
to be made after the date of this Loan Agreement.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all feasible measures to ensure
that the execution and operation of the Project are carried out with due regard


﻿7
to ecological and environmental factors, especially concerning the protection of
the quality of the Borrower's water sources.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall
adopt, not later than June 30, 1972, or such other date as may be agreed with
the Bank, a groundwater monitoring system from observation wells between Lago
de Managua and the Borrower's water sources, satisfactory to the Guarantor, the
Bank and the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Loan
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any of its assets as security
for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably, and at no cost to the Bank or
the holders of the Bonds, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any


﻿8
such lien express provision will be made to that effect, and at no cost to the
Bank or the holders of the Bonds; and (ii) if any lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower, other than under (i) above, as security for any debt, the
Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank or the holders of the Bonds, an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the
payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than debt required to finance the
carrying out of the Project, unless the Borrower's net revenues for any twelve
consecutive months within the fifteen months next preceding such incurrence shall
be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of
this Section:
(i)         "Debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract or loan agreement or guarantee
agreement providing for such debt.
(iii)       "Net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources, which
do not include dep6sitos and any investment contribution paid
or turned over to the Borrower, adjusted to take account of
rates for the Borrower's water supply services in effect at the
time of incurrence of debt even though such rates were not in
effect during the fiscal year or twelve months' period to which
such revenues relate; less all operating, maintenance and
administrative expenses, including provision for taxes, if any, but
before provision for depreciation and for uncollected bills,
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)        "Debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund contributions, if any),
interest and other charges on debt.


﻿9
(v)         Whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
of the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purpose
of servicing such debt, or if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Bank.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
take all necessary steps to set and maintain rates for its water supply services as
shall be required to produce an annual rate of return of not less than 7% on
the average value of the Borrower's net fixed assets in operation, calculated in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement; provided,
however, that such annual rate of return may be less than 7% but not less than
5% during the Borrower's fiscal years of 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not: (i) sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all
of its property or assets, unless the Borrower shall first redeem and pay or make
adequate provision, satisfactory to the Bank, for the redemption and payment of
all of the Loan which shall be outstanding and unpaid; or (i) sell or otherwise
dispose of all or substantially all of the property included in the Project or any
plant included therein unless the Borrower shall first redeem and pay or make
adequate provision, satisfactory to the Bank, for redemption and payment of a
proportionate part of the Loan which shall then be outstanding and unpaid equal
to the proportionate part of the Project so sold or disposed of. The Borrower
may, however, without reference to the foregoing, sell or otherwise dispose of
any property which shall have become old, worn-out, obsolete or unnecessary for
use in its operations.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation; Information and Inspection
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and
the Borrower shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Loan Agreement, the


﻿10
administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and other
matters relating to the purpose of the Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this Loan Agreement.
Section 6.03. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the
Borrower and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VII
Taxes
Section 7.01. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration of the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds, or the payment of principal,
interest or other charges thereunder; provided, however, that the provisions of this
Section shall not apply to taxation of payments under any Bond to a holder thereof
other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an individual or
corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Section 7.02. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the country or countries in whose currency the Loan
and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country
or countries on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds.
ARTICLE VIII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 8.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 8.03 of this Loan Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the
period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor


﻿declare the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be
due and payable immediately together with the interest and other charges thereon
and upon any such declaration such principal, interest and charges shall become
due and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in this Loan Agreement
or in the Bonds notwithstanding.
Section 8.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall have occurred in the payment of principal or interest
or any other payment required under the 1962 Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Guarantor or on the part of the Borrower, under the 1962
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   any creditor of the Borrower shall have demanded payment of monies
lent to the Borrower, prior to the agreed maturity of any loan having an original
maturity of one year or longer, in accordance with the terms of -such loan; or
(d)   the Reglamento shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived, so as to materially and adversely affect the conduct of the
Borrower's operations, financial condition or the performance of its obligations
under this Loan Agreement; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions shall
not apply to the amendments referred to in Section 9.01 of this Loan Agreement.
Section 8.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 8.02 of this Loan
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor;
(b)   the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 8.02 of this Loan
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor;
or
(c)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 8.02 of this
Loan Agreement shall occur.


﻿N
12
ARTICLE IX
Effective Date; Termination
Section 9.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 11.01 (c)
of the General Conditions, namely: that the Guarantor has amended the Reglamento
in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, will enable the Borrower to meet
its obligations under this Loan Agreement.
Section 9.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 11.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the amendments
referred to in Section 9.01 of this Loan Agreement have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action and that all acts, consents and
approvals required in connection therewith have been duly and validly performed
or given.
Section 9.03. The date of June 15, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE X
Addresses
Section 10.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
For the Borrower:
Empresa Aguadora de Managua
Apartado Postal 3599
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua, C.A.
Cable address:
Aguadora Managua
Nicaragua
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Loan Agreement to
be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
EMPRESA AGUADORA DE MANAGUA
By /s/ Gustavo Escoto-Goenaga
Authorized Representative


﻿14                                         Ai
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the Loan to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                      Doiar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I.    Civil Works for Parts                 660,000      28% of total ex-
A, B, C and E of the                               penditures (rep-
Project, exclusive of                              resenting the
equipment and materials                            estimated foreign
furnished by the                                   expenditure com-
Borrower to contractors                            ponent)
II.   Equipment and materials             4,400,000      100% of foreign
for Parts A through F                              expenditures
of the Project
or
95% of local ex-
penditures
III.  Consultants' services                 510,000      100% of foreign
expenditures
IV.   Unallocated                         1,330,000
TOTAL         6,900,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Guarantor;


﻿Aisk                              15
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Guarantor, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Guarantor; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Loan Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures
incurred after September 1, 1971, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $150,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Loan will be
withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Loan then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Loan;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Bank, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Loan, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in
respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Loan Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall


﻿16
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
the estimate of local expenditures under Category II shall increase and no proceeds
of the Loan are available for reallocation to such Categories, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Categories may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the Borrower's program for expanding the Borrower's
water supply system, to be carried out during the 1972-1974 period, and includes:
A.    Construction of water wells in the vicinity of Las Mercedes, Altamira and
San Crist6bal with an aggregate yield of about 17 Mgd.
B.   Construction of a new low-service booster pumping station with a capacity
of about 28 Mgd and a new high-service booster pumping station with a
capacity of about 12 Mgd, both in the vicinity of Las Mercedes; and an
increase of about 16 Mgd in the aggregate capacity of the existing booster
pumping stations at Laguna Asososca.
C.    Construction of: (1) two service reservoirs with a capacity of about 500,000
gallons each; (2) about 60 km of 12 to 36 inches transmission mains; and
(3) about 45 km of 2 to 8 inches distribution pipelines.
D.    Installation of about 9,400 service connections.
E.    Construction of a new administration building.
F.    Acquisition and use of mobile construction equipment for routine water
system maintenance and expansion.
G.    Review and improvement of the Borrower's operations in the fields of, inter
alia, salaries and wages, budgetary control, accounting, inventory management
and control, computer utilization, and internal auditing.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
October 15, 1975                                        75,000
April 15, 1976                                          80,000
October 15, 1976                                        80,000
April 15, 1977                                          85,000
October 15, 1977                                        85,000
April 15, 1978                                          90,000
October 15, 1978                                        95,000
April 15, 1979                                          95,000
October 15, 1979                                       100,000
April 15, 1980                                         105,000
October 15, 1980                                       110,000
April 15, 1981                                         110,000
October 15, 1981                                       115,000
April 15, 1982                                         120,000
October 15, 1982                                       125,000
April 15, 1983                                         130,000
October 15, 1983                                       135,000
April 15, 1984                                         140,000
October 15, 1984                                       145,000
April 15, 1985                                         150,000
October 15, 1985                                       155,000
April 15, 1986                                         160,000
October 15, 1986                                       165,000
April 15, 1987                                         170,000
October 15, 1987                                       175,000
April 15, 1988                                         185,000
October 15, 1988                                       190,000
April 15, 1989                                         195,000
October 15, 1989                                       205,000
April 15, 1990                                         210,000
October 15, 1990                                       220,000
April 15, 1991                                         230,000
October 15, 1991                                       235,000
April 15, 1992                                         245,000
October 15, 1992                                       255,000
April 15, 1993                                         265,000
October 15, 1993                                       275,000
April 15, 1994                                         285,000
October 15, 1994                                       295,000
April 15, 1995                                         305,000
October 15, 1995                                       310,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                 Premium
Not more than three years                           3/4%
before maturity
More than three years                              2-1/4%
but not more than
six years before
maturity
More than six years                                   3%
but not more than
eleven years before
maturity
More than eleven years                             4-1/2%
but not more than
sixteen years before
maturity
More than sixteen years                            5-3/4%
but not more than
twenty years before
maturity
More than twenty years                             6-3/4%
but not more than
twenty-two years
before maturity
More than twenty-two years                         7-1/4%
before maturity


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more or any contract for the supply of equipment or materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the engineering consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) of this Loan Agreement (or by the Borrower in the case of
goods acquired for Part F of the Project), on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Loan Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower,
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of any
such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works, equipment or materials,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall


﻿consstet wih te Gidelnesfor 21
promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Loan Agreement or with the Loan
Agreement and, in such event, no expenditure under such contract shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and associated services included
in Category II of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Loan
Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with the
following rules:
(a)   the term  "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the Central American Common Market
for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably
determined by the Bank) in such territories; any other bid shall be deemed to
be a "Non-Central American Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Central American Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:
(i)        the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods to
the site designated in the specifications;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American Bid with any
Central American Bid, the bid price under a Non-Central American Bid shall be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i)        the c.i.f. (port of entry in Nicaragua) price of such goods;
(ii)       half the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of the Guarantor which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)      freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods from
their port of entry to the site designated in the specifications.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
Method of Calculating Rates of Return
For the purposes of Section 5.05 of this Loan Agreement:
1.    The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the Borrower's net
operating income for the fiscal year in question to the average value of the
Borrower's net fixed assets in operation.
2.    The term  "value of the Borrower's net fixed assets" shall mean the gross
value of such assets used for the Borrower's water supply services, as realistically
valued from time to time, in accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation acceptable to the Bank, less the amount of accumulated
straight-line depreciation, as set forth in paragraph 4 (b) below.
3.    The term   "average value of the Borrower's net fixed assets" shall mean
one-half of the sum of (i) the value of the Borrower's net fixed assets at the
beginning of the fiscal year, and (ii) the value of the Borrower's net fixed assets
at the end of the same fiscal year.
4.    The term   "net operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(a)   gross operating revenues accruing from the Borrower's water supply
services (which do not include derechos de servicios, dep6sitos and
any investment contribution paid or turned over to the Borrower);
and
(b)   the sum of operating, maintenance and administration expenses (but
excluding interest and other charges on debt), adequate provision for
bad debts, indirect cost of connections and reconnections, taxes (if
any) and adequate provision for straight-line depreciation on all
depreciable assets in operation at an average rate of not less than 3%
per annum (or such other rate as the Bank and the Borrower may
from time to time agree) of the gross value of such assets, as shown
in the balance sheets of the Borrower and valued as set forth in
paragraph 2 above, all related to the Borrower's water supply services.


