                      PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                APPRAISAL STAGE

                                                                           November 10, 2012
                                                                          Report No.: AB7172
 Operation Name                      Macedonia Public Expenditure Public Based Guarantee
 Region                              EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
 Country                             Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of
 Sector                              Central government administration (34%); Health (33%);
                                     Other social services (33%)
 Operation ID                        P133837
 Lending Instrument                  Guarantee
 Borrower(s)                         FYR Macedonia
 Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Finance
 Date PID Prepared                   November 10, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal         November 5, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board             January 17, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision           The ROC authorized the team to appraise the operation.
 Other Decision

       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

The renewed Euro zone turmoil since the second half of 2011 has adversely affected the
economy of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (hereinafter FYR Macedonia). Export
demand suffered, business sentiment fell and labor markets deteriorated. Negative effects have
also spilled over into the fiscal accounts, with poor tax performance and deteriorating financial
discipline in the public sector. In addition, new market turbulence since May 2012 have dimmed
short-term growth prospects and access to capital markets. Risk appetite among global investors
is volatile and cross-border lending is tightening, particularly in the Euro zone periphery, which
is considered most vulnerable to financial upheaval and spill-over.

Still, the current mix of macroeconomic policies is supportive of macroeconomic stability, while
structural reforms are being introduced to lay the groundwork for sustainable and robust
recovery. The medium-term fiscal framework aims to ensure that government debt remains at
below one third of GDP while further gains are achieved from improvements in the quality of
public spending, including through measures supported by the proposed operation. The
involvement of the Bank reflects the continuous and productive engagement in the areas covered
by the operation for an extended period of time. It also reflects the success of the first Policy
Based Guarantee (PBG) for Macedonia in 2011. In the current financial environment, a partially-
secured form of financing structure could facilitate Macedonia’s access to market funding at a
longer tenor, under more favorable terms. With the Public Expenditure PBG Macedonia would
have access to US$201.5 mio in Bank guarantees, which it intends to leverage to EUR220-250
mio total financing. Government would like to access these additional resources as it plans to
address urgent short-term financing needs. In particular, the Public Expenditure PBG is planned
to help to support Government’s efforts to clear arrears, and in this way stimulate economic
activity through the private sector.

       Proposed Objective(s)

The overarching goal of the Public Expenditure PBG is to ensure that fiscal policy, and public
expenditure policy in particular, supports an environment conducive to robust growth, more
effective social protection and improved service delivery.

The Program Development Objective of the proposed second single tranche Public Expenditure
PBG is to improve the efficiency of public expenditures and public financial management,
strengthen the health system, and improve social inclusion and targeting of social assistance. In
addition, the proposed Public Expenditure PBG would provide improved market access by
helping Macedonia in preserving continued market access at reasonable terms and expanding the
borrower’s name in the financial market over the medium term. It is expected that the Public
Expenditure PBG would improve Macedonia’s borrowing terms considerably.

The operation will support critical reforms needed to strengthened robustness of public financial
management and help mitigate the impact of the renewed turmoil. It will make a significant
contribution towards securing 2013 budget financing, especially given the unpredictable access
to capital markets going ahead. In addition, the measures supported by the Public Expenditure
PBG are critical for the strengthened solvency of fiscal accounts, improved delivery of services
and resumption of growth over the medium-term. The operation is closely linked to the
government’s program which is aiming to maintain the stability of the economy and lay the
groundwork for sustainable and robust recovery.

       Preliminary Description

The proposed Public Expenditure PBG supports reforms to improve public financial
management by focusing on policies that promote sustainable macroeconomic outcomes and
strengthen the credibility of budget in delivering the objectives of fiscal policy. The specific
measures are:
    (1) The Borrower has established an inventory of its (i) payment arrears and (ii) VAT refund
        arrears, and has agreed to a timeline and plan to clear the stock starting in October 2012.
    (2) The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has taken the following measures to improve the
        management of financial commitments:
     Amendments to the Manual of Treasury Operations (Official Gazette No. 118/12,
        September 24, 2012) to (i) set forth how multi-year liabilities will be recorded, reported
        and validated, and (ii) prohibit the Treasury Department from approving payment
        requests if liabilities are not properly registered; and
     The Amendments to the Manual of Treasury Operations have been circulated to all
        budget users with a confirmation that the statutory penalties provisioned in the Law of
        Budgets will be applied for failure to meet the requirements of (i) reporting commitments
        and (ii) meeting expenditures within the available budget without incurring arrears; and
     Establishment of a Working Group within the Ministry of Finance (Decision number 04-
        27553/1) to (i) prepare changes to the Treasury Information System to incorporate entry
       and monitoring of multi-year liabilities; and (ii) adopt a plan on activities; and (iii)
       commence implementation of such plan.

The proposed Public Expenditure PBG is proposed to support measures aimed at enhancing the
efficiency of spending in the health sector. The objective is to generate savings that will be
directed to other priorities in the health sector, including improved health services provision. The
specific measures are:
    (3) The Borrower’s Ministry of Health has introduced and published revised reference prices
        for a list of drugs for which prices were reduced as a result of improvements to the
        methodology for setting prices for registered drugs (Official Gazette No. 156/11 from
        November 9, 2011) in order to generate health expenditure savings.
    (4) The Borrower’s Ministry of Health has concluded centralized international procurement
        for optical lenses and disposables for 2012-2013 and has commenced centralized
        international procurement for orthopedic devices in order to generate price savings and
        improved terms of delivery.
    (5) The Borrower’s Ministry of Health has introduced criteria defining the standards for
        health service provision, specifically for contracting providers, in order to expand
        provider coverage in underserved areas, through adoption of the by-law establishing the
        Medical Network (Official Gazette No. 81/12 from June 28, 2012).

The proposed Public Expenditure PBG will support the authorities’ efforts to better protect the
vulnerable groups. The Public Expenditure PBG will support policies that are promoting social
inclusion and improving the targeting of the social protection system. The specific measures are:
    (6) The Borrower has adopted (on June 26, 2012) revisions to the 2012-2013 Operation Plan
        on Active Labor Market Policies containing additional measures to encourage Social
        Safety Net Beneficiaries to actively seek employment opportunities, to increase social
        inclusion.
    (7) The Borrower’s MoLSP has improved the efficiency of social safety net administration
        by (i) entering into a Memorandum of Understanding with each of the Employment
        Service Agency (ESA) and the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund (PDIF) in order to
        establish a system that links the Cash Benefits Management Information System with the
        administrative registries of the ESA and the PDIF Fund; and (ii) making such system
        operational.
    (8) The Borrower’s Council of Ministers has adopted (on October 16, 2012) the draft Law on
        Amendments to the Law of Social Protection in order to use savings from improvement
        of the targeting performance of the Social Safety Net System to increase the level of the
        means-tested cash benefit.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts
Overall, the actions proposed to be supported by the Public Expenditure PBG are likely to have
positive poverty and social impacts. The Public Expenditure PBG supported-program should
help strengthened confidence in the economy, improve service delivery and better protect the
vulnerable.
Environment Aspects
The specific policies supported by the Public Expenditure PBG will have no adverse effects on
the country’s environment and natural resources. The measures contemplated under the
guarantee are primarily geared towards supporting government’s reforms that are not expected to
have any direct significant links to the environment.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                     (EURm.)
Borrower                                                                    0
IBRD Guarantee                                                              155
Commercial lenders                                                          220-250
       Total                                                                220-250

       Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Birgit Hansl
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 202-473 1390
Email: bhansl@worldbank.org
Location: Washington DC

Borrower
Contact: Suzana Peneva
Title: State Advisor
Email: suzana.stoimceva@finance.gov.mk

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
