                      PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                 CONCEPT STAGE

                                                                               October 10, 2012
                                                                            Report No.: AB7137
 Operation Name                      Second Public Based Guarantee
 Region                              EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
 Country                             Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of
 Sector                              Central government administration (34%); Health (33%);
                                     Other social services (33%)
 Operation ID                        P133837
 Lending Instrument                  Guarantee
 Borrower(s)                         FYR Macedonia
 Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Finance
 Date PID Prepared                   October 9, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal         November 1, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board             January 17, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision           The Concept Note Review authorized the team to continue
                                     preparation of the operation.
 Other Decision

       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

The renewed Euro zone turmoil since the second half of 2011 has adversely affected the
economy of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (hereinafter FYR Macedonia). Export
demand suffered, business sentiment fell and labor markets deteriorated. Negative effects have
also spilled over into the fiscal accounts, with poor tax performance and deteriorating financial
discipline in the public sector. In addition, new market turbulence since May have dimmed short-
term growth prospects and access to capital markets. Risk appetite among global investors is
volatile and cross-border lending is tightening, particularly in the Euro zone periphery, which is
considered most vulnerable to financial upheaval and spill-over.

Still, the current mix of macroeconomic policies is supportive of macroeconomic stability, while
structural reforms are being introduced to lay the groundwork for sustainable and robust
recovery. The medium-term fiscal framework aims to ensure that government debt remains at
below one third of GDP while further gains are achieved from improvements in the quality of
public spending, including through measures supported by the proposed operation. The
involvement of the Bank reflects the continuous and productive engagement in the areas covered
by the operation for an extended period of time. It also reflects the success of the first Policy
Based Guarantee (PBG) for Macedonia in 2011. In the current financial environment, a partially-
secured form of financing structure could facilitate Macedonia’s access to market funding at a
longer tenor, under more favorable terms. With the second PBG Macedonia would have access
to US$200 mio in Bank guarantees, which it intends to leverage to EUR220-250 mio total
financing. Government would like to access these additional resources as it plans to address
urgent short-term financing needs. In particular, the PBG II is planned to help to support
Government’s efforts to clear arrears, and in this way stimulate economic activity through the
private sector.

       Proposed Objective(s)

The overarching goal of the second PBG is to ensure that fiscal policy, and public expenditure
policy in particular, supports an environment conducive to robust growth, more effective social
protection and improved service delivery.

The Program Development Objective of the proposed second single tranche second PBG is to
improve the efficiency of public expenditures and public financial management, strengthen the
health system and improve social inclusion and targeting of social assistance. In addition, the
proposed second PBG would provide improved market access by helping Macedonia in
preserving continued market access at reasonable terms and expanding the borrower’s name in
the financial market over the medium term. It is expected that the second PBG would improve
Macedonia’s borrowing terms considerably.

The operation will support critical reforms needed to strengthened robustness of public financial
management and help mitigate the impact of the renewed turmoil. It will make a significant
contribution towards securing budget financing, especially given the unpredictable access to
capital markets going ahead. In addition, the measures supported by the second PBG are critical
for the strengthened solvency of fiscal accounts, improved delivery of services and resumption of
growth over the medium-term. The operation is closely linked to the Government’s program
which is aiming to maintain the stability of the economy and lay the groundwork for sustainable
and robust recovery.

       Preliminary Description

The proposed PBG II supports reforms to improve public financial management by focusing on
policies that promote sustainable macroeconomic outcomes and strengthen the credibility of
budget in delivering the objectives of fiscal policy. The specific measures are:
    (1) The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has adopted the following measures to improve
        management of financial commitments:
         Amendments to the Manual of Treasury Operations on how multi-year liabilities will
            be recorded, reported and validated, and to prohibit the Treasury Department from
            approving payment requests if liabilities are not properly registered; and
         Establishment of a Working Group within the Ministry of Finance to prepare changes
            to the Treasury Information System to incorporate entry and monitoring of multi-year
            liabilities; and the adoption of a plan on future activities.

   (2) The Borrower’s Public Procurement Board has commenced mandatory publication of all
       procurements less than EUR5,000 on its website from July 1, 2012 to increase
       transparency in the public procurement process.
The second PBG is proposed to support measures aimed at enhancing the efficiency of spending
in the health sector. The objective is to generate savings that will be directed to other priorities in
the health sector. The specific measures are:
    (3) The Borrower’s Ministry of Health has introduced and published revised reference prices
        for a list of drugs for which prices were reduced as a result of improvements to the
        methodology for setting prices for registered drugs in order to generate health
        expenditure savings.

   (4) The Borrower’s Ministry of Health has introduced criteria for right-sizing the public
       health sector over time by introducing ceilings on number of contractors, through
       adoption of the by-law establishing the Medical Network.

   (5) The Borrower’s Ministry of Health has completed centralized international procurement
       for optical lenses and disposables and started the centralized international procurement
       for orthopedic devices to generate price savings and improved terms of delivery.

The second PBG will support the authorities’ efforts to better protect the vulnerable groups. The
second PBG will support policies that are promoting social inclusion and improving the targeting
of the social protection system. The specific measures are:
    (6) The Borrower’s Government has adopted revisions to the 2012-2013 Operation Plan on
        Active Labor Market Policies containing additional activation measures for the Social
        Safety Net Beneficiaries to increase social inclusion.

   (7) The Borrower’s MoLSP has improved the efficiency of social safety net administration
       by MoLSP entering a MoU with the Employment Agency and the Pension Fund to
       implement a link of the Cash Benefits Management Information System with the
       administrative registries of these agencies and establishing this link.

   (8) The Borrower’s Government has adopted a draft Law on amendments to the Law of
       Social Protection to use savings from improvement of the targeting performance of the
       Social Safety Net System to increase the level of the means-tested cash benefit.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts
Overall, the actions proposed to be supported by the second PBG are likely to have positive
poverty and social impacts. The second PBG supported-program should help strengthened
confidence in the economy, improve service delivery and better protect the vulnerable.

Environment Aspects
The specific policies supported by the second PBG will have no adverse effects on the country’s
environment and natural resources. The measures contemplated under the guarantee are
primarily geared towards supporting government reforms in sectors that are not expected to have
any direct significant links to the environment.
       Tentative financing

Source:                                                 ($m.)
Borrower                                                0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development   200
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
        Total                                           200

       Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Birgit Hansl
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 202-473 1390
Email: bhansl@worldbank.org
Location: Washington DC

Borrower
Contact: Suzana Peneva
Title: State Advisor
Email: suzana.stoimceva@finance.gov.mk

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
