FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

      Policy-Based Guarantee




                          Report No. 106177
                                 JUNE 30, 2016
© 2016 International Bank for Reconstruction   This work is a product of the staff of The World    RIGHTS AND PERMISSIONS
and Development / The World Bank               Bank with external contributions. The findings,     The material in this work is subject to copyright.
1818 H Street NW                               interpretations, and conclusions expressed in       Because The World Bank encourages
Washington DC 20433                            this work do not necessarily reflect the views of   dissemination of its knowledge, this work may be
Telephone: 202-473-1000                        The World Bank, its Board of Executive              reproduced, in whole or in part, for
Internet: www.worldbank.org                    Directors, or the governments they represent.       noncommercial purposes as long as full
                                                                                                   attribution to this work is given.
                                               The World Bank does not guarantee the
                                               accuracy of the data included in this work. The     Any queries on rights and licenses, including
                                               boundaries, colors, denominations, and other        subsidiary rights, should be addressed to
                                               information shown on any map in this work do        World Bank Publications, The World Bank
                                               not imply any judgment on the part of The           Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
                                               World Bank concerning the legal status of any       20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail:
                                               territory or the endorsement or acceptance of       pubrights@worldbank.org.
                                               such boundaries.
                                                     Report No.: 106177




          PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

          FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                    POLICY BASED GUARANTEE
                       (G-2080-MK, P125837)


                            June 30, 2016




IEG Human Development and Economic Management Department
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MDen)

2011           US$1.00             MDen 44.23
2012           US$1.00             MDen 47.89
2013           US$1.00             MDen 46.39
2014           US$1.00             MDen 46.43
2015           US$1.00             MDen 51.48


Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
DPL        Development policy loan
EU         European Union
FPD        Financial and Private Sector Development
FSC        Financial Stability Committee
FSI        financial soundness indicators
FYR        Former Yugoslav Republic
GDP        gross domestic product
HD         Humana Development
HIF        Health Insurance Fund
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IEG        Independent Evaluation Group
IEGHE      IEG Human Development and Economic Management Department
IMF        International Monetary Fund
MIS        Management information system
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NBRM       National Bank of FYR Macedonia
OGRM       Official Gazette of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
OPCS       Operations Policy and Country Services
PBG        Policy based guarantee
PPAR       Project Performance Assessment Report
PREM       Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network
PSIA       poverty and social impact analysis



Fiscal Year

Government:            January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                 :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, Human Development and Economic Management      :   Mr. Nick York
Manager, Country Program and Economic Management         :   Mr. Mark Sundberg
Task Manager                                             :   Mr. Zeljko Bogetic
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 3
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 3
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 5
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 9
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 10
5. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 16
6. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 21
References ......................................................................................................................... 23
Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet.......................................................................................... 24
Appendix B. The Bank’s Experience with Policy-Based Guarantees .............................. 26
Appendix C. List of Persons Met ...................................................................................... 29
Appendix D. FYR Macedonia Macroeconomic Framework, 2011-2020......................... 30
Appendix E. Borrower Comments .................................................................................... 31


Tables
Table 2.1. PBG Prior Actions ............................................................................................. 8
Table 4.1. FYR Macedonia External Borrowing (Eurobonds and bank loans) ................ 12
Table 4.2. FYR Macedonia Wages Bill and Government Revenues ................................ 13
Table 4.3. FYR Macedonia Pensions as Percent of GDP ................................................. 14

Figures
Figure 1.1. Fiscal Balance and Public Debt in FYR Macedonia and Comparator Countries
(percent of GDP) ................................................................................................................. 1
Figure 1.2. Bank Deposits and Growth of Real Credit to the Private Sector in FYR
Macedonia and Regional Comparators ............................................................................... 1

This report was prepared by Zeljko Bogetic, with research analyst support of Lancine Conde, who assessed
the project during June-August 2015. The report was peer reviewed by Shahrokh Fardoust and panel
reviewed by Chad Leechor. Aline Dukuze and Viktoriya Yevsyeyeva provided team administrative
support.
                                                               v


Principal Ratings
                                        ICR*                        ICR Review*                           PPAR
                                                                     Moderately                        Moderately
 Outcome                            Satisfactory
                                                                     Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
 Risk to
 Development                         Moderate                          Moderate                         Moderate
 Outcome
 Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
 Borrower
                                    Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
 Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
 Project                Task Manager/Leader                                                       Country Director
                                                                Sector Director
 Appraisal                  Evgenij Najdov                      Satu Kahkonen                       Jane Armitage
 Completion                    Birgit Hansl                     Satu Kahkonen                      Ellen Goldstein
                                                           vi


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             vii


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) was prepared by Zeljko Bogetic
(Task Team Leader) under the supervision of Mark Sundberg (Manager, IEG Country
Programs and Economic Management). Research assistance from Lancine Conde, Moritz
Piatti, and team assistant support from Aline Dukuze (Independent Evaluation Group
[IEG]) and Jasminka Sopova (World Bank country office in the Former Yugoslav
Republic [FYR] Macedonia) are gratefully acknowledged. The PPAR team wishes to
express sincere gratitude to the interviewed government officials, stakeholders, and Bank
staff who provided their perspectives and valuable information in the course this
assessment (Appendix C).

This PPAR evaluates the policy-based guarantee (PBG) to FYR Macedonia, which was
approved on November 10, 2011. Operational phase of policy reforms supported by the
operation ended following Board approval and disbursement in 2011. Closing date was
December 31, 2012. It is the second in a series of four underway assessing the early
performance of PBGs. The other three PPARs are on Serbia, a second PBG on FYR
Macedonia, and one on Montenegro. All four operations have taken place in countries in
the Western Balkans from 2011-14. Following completion of the four PPARs, a small
IEG learning product is envisaged to synthesize high-level lessons from the early use of
the PBG instrument.

The objectives of the FYR Macedonia PBG being assessed here were to: (i) improve the
government’s access to international financial markets, (ii) fortify the sustainability of
public finance and the functioning of labor markets, (iii) strengthen social safety nets, and
(iv) support the resilience of the financial sector.

The operation was originally envisaged as the second in a series of development policy
loans (DPLs), but the series was truncated at the request of the Borrower, and the second
operation was converted into a standalone policy-based guarantee early in the
preparation, while keeping essentially the same policy framework of the original DPL.
Under the operational policy on guarantees, which, at the time, guided PBGs, there was
no possibility of a programmatic guarantee, hence the standalone design of the PBG. This
was the first PBG operation in FYR Macedonia. It was only the second time in a decade
that such an operation was approved by the Bank, following the approval of the Serbia
Private and Financial Sector Policy-Based Guarantee in February 2011.

The total amount disbursed by the underwriting international commercial banks
(Deutsche Bank and Citibank) was €130 million. The World Bank guaranteed a partial
amount (€100 million, equivalent to $134.9 million) of the principal on the loan. This
arrangement leveraged the Bank’s capital to help the country raise the needed resources
from the international commercial bank markets.

This report presents the findings based on a review of the program documents, project
appraisal documents, the implementation completion and results reports, aides-memoires,
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank reports, and other relevant
materials. An IEG mission visited Skopje, the capital of FYR Macedonia, from June 28
to July 1, 2015 to interview government officials, IMF staff, Bank staff, and other
                                            viii


stakeholders (see Appendix C for the complete list of persons interviewed). Other bank
staff members, IMF representatives, and other information providers were interviewed in
Washington, DC. This work was carried out in parallel with, and benefited from, a
separate PPAR on the private and financial sector PBG to Serbia.

The assessment aims to verify whether the operation achieved its intended outcomes. The
report provides additional evidence and analysis of relevant and comparative data for a
more complete picture of the outcomes and factors that influenced them. By covering the
period between 2011 and 2015, it offers an opportunity for broader lessons and a longer
time perspective, as well as reflection on the sustainability of policy reform. Finally, the
report draws lessons to inform future operations of this nature in other countries.

Following standard IEG procedures, a copy of the draft PPAR was sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for their review and feedback, and comments received
from the Government of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia have been
included in Appendix E.
                                               ix


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) assesses the policy-based
guarantee (PBG) to FYR Macedonia, which was approved on November 10, 2011.

The PPAR provides an in-depth look at this operation four years after the completion of
the reform program. It reviews the existing program and uncovers new evidence on the
operation based on additional country-specific and comparative data, information on
institutional reforms, international metrics, as well as insights from over 30 semi-
structured interviews with stakeholders in the country and the World Bank. This PPAR is
part of the Independent Evaluation Group’s (IEG) effort to gain greater insights into the
impact of budget support development policy operations (DPO). According to the
Operations Policy and Country Services Vice Presidency’s (OPCS) rules at the time, a
country was eligible for a PBG if it met three criteria: (i) a strong track record of
performance with a satisfactory structural, social, and macroeconomic policy package,
(ii) a sustainable external financing plan, and (iii) a coherent borrowing strategy, which
would enable it to become a borrower in its own name without a guarantee in the medium
term. FYR Macedonia scored well on these criteria.1

The objectives of the operation were to: (i) improve the government’s access to
international financial markets, (ii) fortify the sustainability of public finance and the
functioning of labor markets, (iii) strengthen social safety nets, and (iv) support the
resilience of the financial sector (FYR Macedonia Policy Based Guarantee 2011, p. ii and
Annex 2, Policy Matrix).

The relevance, design, and results of the PBG met the expectations of financial and
policy reform objectives set at the outset. The World Bank took informed risks with the
new instrument to respond to the client’s request for a much larger volume of financing
than would have been available under a development policy loan (DPL).

The government showed commitment to and ownership of the reform agenda. The World
Bank and the government had a good working relationship and policy dialogue. The
operation featured good design and moderate outcomes, despite a difficult external
environment in the Eurozone, a second regional recession in the Western Balkans, and
the escalation of the Greek debt crisis. The reform agenda showed moderate
achievements and sustainability.

The relevance of objectives was high. Objectives were closely aligned with the World
Bank’s strategy in two out of three country partnership strategy (CPS) pillars on
economic growth and competitiveness, and inclusive growth. The objectives were highly
relevant to country conditions, the country’s main European Union (EU)-related

1
 OP/BP 14.25, Guarantees. It was retired in 2013/14 and policy based guarantees were
incorporated into OP/BP 8.60, Development Policy Lending (renamed Development Policy
Financing). The program document (FYR Macedonia Policy Based Guarantee 2011) contains a
detailed section documenting the evidence of the country meeting the eligibility criteria before
Board approval. Also, this evidence and eventual judgement was subject of discussion during the
review process.
                                             x


accession documents, and the context, and remained relevant at the time of this review.
Policy reform areas were identified based on prior analytical work: Economic
Memorandum (CEM), Poverty Assessment, FSAP, and a Public Expenditure Review
(PER).

Design was substantially relevant to country conditions, given the protracted market
turbulence and regional and Eurozone risks at the time. The country was especially
vulnerable to the contagion from Greece because of its large exposure to trade, financial,
and transport links.

The objectives were well linked to the design of the PBG as well as the desired outcome
of the country eventually accessing markets independently. Policy reform objectives were
appropriate based on a track record of solid macroeconomic and fiscal management
characterized by low fiscal deficits and moderate public debt levels, good policy
dialogue, extensive consultation, and past analytical work. Prior actions were linked to
objectives, limited in numbers, relevant, and concrete.

Achievement of financial objectives was substantial. The government managed to raise
the required funds, and extend maturity of external borrowing using the PBG. This
subsequently led to FYR Macedonia independently accessing international markets on
favorable terms. Policy reform objectives showed mixed achievement. Critical actions
and outcomes in the financial sector were substantially achieved. The achievement in the
areas of strengthening public finances and in the functioning of labor markets and in
strengthening of the social safety net were modest. The emergence of health sector
arrears and other payment arrears during implementation and supervision undermined the
overall achievement.

This moderate achievement took place in the context of adverse economic conditions of a
triple recession in the Western Balkan region (2009, 2012, and 2014) and unemployment
in FYR Macedonia of about 30 percent, which made policy implementation politically
challenging. There was no International Monetary Fund (IMF) program in place at the
time, and there was a perception that the country was highly vulnerable to external
shocks. Reforms supported by the PBG proved important to the resilience of the budget
and the banking sector, allowing it to absorb adverse economic and external shocks.

World Bank performance was satisfactory. Given very difficult economic and external
conditions and risks that the World Bank took with a new type of operation, the World
Bank performance was solid. As the first PBG in FYR Macedonia and only the second in
the world in a decade, the operation required additional effort from the World Bank team
than is usually required in developing a DPL. The team built on the experience of the
previous PBG in Serbia approved six months prior. The good relationship with the
government and a broad policy dialogue helped. The World Bank also closely
coordinated with the IMF. But because there was no IMF program in place, the World
Bank team appropriately engaged in more intensive monitoring and assessment of
macroeconomic developments and policies.

Borrower performance was satisfactory. The government’s interest, commitment, and
ownership was substantial. The quality of reporting, cooperation, dialogue, and
                                             xi


engagement of technical counterparts was strong. Key government agencies, the Ministry
of Finance, National Bank of Republic of Macedonia (NBRM), Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy, and the Health Insurance Fund, were cooperative. Coordination with the
Ministry of Finance was solid. Government agencies worked closely with the World
Bank team on a tight schedule to ensure the timely completion of many complex details
of the financial architecture of the operation, which was new to the government and the
external commercial underwriting banks.

The M&E framework was rated substantial. It featured clear objectives and prior actions
with indicators and linkages among them. The majority of indicators were quantitative
and most were identifiable, clear, and measurable. The use of some critical indicators
informed policy adjustments and improvements, especially in the areas of public
expenditure policy and financial sector reform.

Lessons

This moderately successful operation offers several lessons for the future design of
PBGs. Some may be of broad interest on the use of the instrument, and some are more
project specific.

Regarding broader lessons on the use of PBGs:

      First, PBG remains a fairly unknown and underused instrument globally requiring
       the Bank’s team to provide considerable information and informal technical
       assistance to the client before and during the preparation. Recent regulatory
       reform by OPCS, which brought PBGs under the umbrella of DPO policy
       regulation is an important step in the direction of mainstreaming PBGs as a
       specific type of DPO and making it more known to clients.

      Second, PBG appears to be a useful type of budget support, especially during
       international market turbulence. PBG could be particularly relevant, for example,
       to many small, vulnerable economies with substantial external financing needs,
       but with a solid track record of macroeconomic performance, debt management,
       and policy reform and a good dialogue with the World Bank.

      Third, PBGs have the potential to leverage and increase turnover of World Bank
       capital. In FYR Macedonia, the International Bank for Reconstruction and
       Development guaranteed €100 million of the total principal of €130 million.

Several project-specific lessons emerge as well, which may be of broader interest for the
future design of PBGs.

      First, PBGs provide potential benefits and risks to the clients, which should be
       clearly identified and discussed with the Borrower. Although direct financial
       benefits of PBGs for improving market access and terms of external borrowing
       can be substantial, there are other benefits: the borrower is able to establish itself
       in the eyes of international investors and broaden the investor base. Also, by
       providing substantial external financing to the budget at the right time, PBGs can
                                        xii


    support both macroeconomic stability and the reform program. On the risk side,
    as with any large loans, especially with a guaranteed component, PBGs are
    associated with the risk of debt repayment and, potentially, a “moral hazard,” in
    terms of reduced incentives for the borrower to exercise caution in borrowing and
    implementing reform. To guard against “moral hazard” whereby large financing
    is used to postpone rather than implement the reforms, a strong policy reform
    program, prior actions, and results frameworks are essential.

   Second, strong and relevant design and achievement is much more likely when
    the operation’s design is informed by relevant knowledge work, intensive and
    longer-term World Bank engagement and dialogue, and, a relationship of trust
    between the World Bank and the borrower.

   Third, this operation shows that the World Bank can be more effective when it
    promotes country-to-country learning during the preparation of similar projects in
    different countries. This is especially the case when the Bank is testing a
    relatively new instrument as was the case with PBGs.




                                                   Nick York
                                                    Director
                                   Human Development and Economic Management
                                          Independent Evaluation Group
                                                                                                                      1


1. Background and Context
1.1    In 2010-11, when the policy-based guarantee (PBG) operation was prepared for the
Former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of Macedonia, the county’s external and regional context
was particularly difficult. The Western Balkans region was recovering very slowly from a
deep regional and global recession. The escalation of the Greek crisis in 2009 led to renewed
market turbulence and international capital “flight to quality.” This meant that international
markets were effectively closed for many small, vulnerable countries. Because of its
proximity to Greece and linkages with trade, transport, and the financial sector, FYR
Macedonia was viewed as especially vulnerable to the Greek contagion. Sovereign spreads
for many European countries escalated, including in FYR Macedonia.

Figure 1.1. Fiscal Balance and Public Debt in FYR Macedonia and Comparator
Countries (percent of GDP)

                             ALB                              BIH                                  KOS
 10
                             MKD                              MNE                                  SRB
                                                                                                                 70
                                                                                                                 60
  5                                                                                                              50
                                                                                                                 40
  0
                                                                                                                 30
 -5                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                                 10
-10                                                                                                                   0
          2005          2006              2007        2008             2009         2010            2011                       ALB   BiH   KOS MKD MNE SRB EU10

Note: ALB=Albania, BiH=Bosnia and Herzegovina, EU10=EU10 countries, KOS= Kosovo, MKD=FYR Macedonia, MNE=Montenegro, and
SRB=Serbia. The red horizontal line is the Maastricht 60 percent debt limit. The green line is the 40 percent debt limit advocated in
recent International Monetary Fund publications (Gupta and Baldacci).

Figure 1.2. Bank Deposits and Growth of Real Credit to the Private Sector in FYR
Macedonia and Regional Comparators
160                                                                                                                                                               ALB
                                 ALB
140                              BIH                                                                                  55                                          BIH
                                 KOS
120                              MKD                                                                                  45                                          KOS

                                                                                                                                                                  MKD
100                                                                                                                   35
                                                                                                                                                                  MNE
 80                                                                                                                   25

 60                                                                                                                   15

 40                                                                                                                       5

 20                                                                                                                       -5
      Dec-05



                        Dec-06



                                            Dec-07



                                                              Dec-08



                                                                                 Dec-09



                                                                                                    Dec-10
               Jun-06



                                 Jun-07



                                                     Jun-08



                                                                        Jun-09



                                                                                          Jun-10



                                                                                                             Jun-11




                                                                                                                      -15
                                                                                                                             Jun-07
                                                                                                                        Dec-06         Jun-08
                                                                                                                                  Dec-07    Dec-08
                                                                                                                                                 Jun-09
                                                                                                                                                      Dec-09    Dec-10
                                                                                                                                                           Jun-10    Jun-11
Source: South East Europe Regular Economic Report, 2012.
                                               2


1.2     Against this backdrop, the government has run generally prudent macroeconomic
monetary policy that helped maintain the exchange rate peg. Prudent fiscal policy kept fiscal
deficits in check. The public debt level was moderate compared to regional comparator
countries (Figure 1.1), but deficits and government debt increased in recent years. Central
government debt increased from 27.7 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2011 to
35.9 percent in 2015 (IMF 2015). Active supervision and regulation by the national bank
helped limit risks to the financial system; there were fewer non-performing loans, they were
lower than in the other countries, and provisions were substantial. Liquidity and capital
adequacy ratios remained solid. Confidence in the banking system was preserved. Bank
deposits recovered quickly following the global crisis. The credit boom and bust was less
pronounced than in other countries in the region and the growth of real credit to the private
sector did not turn negative (Figure 1.2). As a result, the impact of the Greek crisis was
relatively muted compared to some other small European countries, and there were no major
bank failures.

1.3     On the structural reform front, FYR Macedonia has been pursuing investment climate
reforms as part of the country’s strategy to improve competitiveness and attract foreign
investments. The country became a regional champion in the legal and regulatory aspects of
investment climate and related reforms as measured by the World Bank/European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development Doing Business Indicators. In 2010, it ranked 38th in the
world, an exceptional improvement from 92nd position in 2006. It continued to improve its
ranking and achieved the 12th rank in the world in 2016, the highest in the Western Balkans.
FYR Macedonia’s credit rating, according to Standard and Poor’s, has been BB for several
years, the highest in the Western Balkans (World Bank 2015). Also, in contrast to other
Western Balkans countries, a large share of FYR Macedonia’s foreign direct investments
consisted of green-field investments in the tradable sector, enabling it to boost exports and
diversify its export structures. As a result, the country was viewed as a regionally competitive
destination for foreign investment, because of the low cost of labor and adequate local skills
available. FYR Macedonia attracted some quality foreign direct investments in
manufacturing, including in the auto parts industry, linking it into the value chain of the vast
European automobile industry.

1.4      However, despite these achievements, other structural constraints such as the small
size of the market, landlocked position, infrastructure quality, and labor market rigidities
contributed to only moderate growth and persistent unemployment of about 30 percent; about
a fifth of the population continued living in poverty. This and underlying ethnic tensions
makes many fiscal and structural reforms politically sensitive. Labor Force Survey (LFS)
data, indicate that unemployment dropped from 37 percent in 2004 to 32 percent in 2009 and
further to 26 percent in 2015. Youth unemployment, however, remains above 30 percent.

1.5     Against this backdrop, the World Bank had a good economic policy dialogue with
FYR Macedonia. Despite major shocks during the global recession, sound macroeconomic
management helped the country avoid a major banking crisis that engulfed some European
countries. And there was a continuum of structural reforms, reflected in FYR Macedonia’s
sound macroeconomic policy, highest credit rating, and ratings of the business climate in the
region (World Bank 2015 and 2013). This solid track record and the continuity of policy
                                                  3


dialogue with the World Bank were important prerequisites for the country to access
financing using a PBG.

1.6     The World Bank had supported FYR Macedonia’s reforms through a development
policy operation (DPO) and a number of projects. The World Bank approved the first
development policy loan (DPL) in 2009, originally part of a two-operation DPL series. The
series was terminated and the second DPL was converted to a standalone PBG at the request
of the government. The policy framework and the policy matrix remained largely unchanged
with some modifications. The PBG has, therefore, helped maintain continuity of major
reforms.

2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
2.1    At the outset, it is important to recognize that the PBG was an operation combining
the characteristics of: a DPO and a financial guarantee.

2.2     As a result, it featured multiple objectives, targeting financial benefits arising from
the financial guarantee as well as policy reform objectives. Also, the PBG required a third
player in preparation of the operation beyond the government and the World Bank—the
commercial banks which provided the funding. This made the preparation and design of the
operation more demanding than otherwise would have been the case. Also, it was the first
such operation in the country and only second one in the world in a decade, following the
Serbia PBG.

2.3       The financial objectives of the operation were to improve FYR Macedonia’s access to
international markets and assist the country in the achievement of favorable terms on its
external commercial loans. The policy reform objectives were to: (i) strengthen sustainability
of public finances and the functioning of labor markets, (ii) strengthen social safety nets, and
(iii) strengthen resilience of the financial sector.

2.4      The financial objectives of the operation featured in the policy matrix along with
results indicators, but not in the development objectives. At the same time, the program
document clearly makes references (for example on pages, p.ii and 54, and in Annex 2 Policy
Matrix) that indicate that this was an important objective of the operation.2

Relevance of Objectives
Relevance of objectives is rated high.

2.5     The objectives were highly relevant to country conditions. FYR Macedonia as a
small, landlocked country with strong trade and financial linkages to Greece faced
considerable challenges in maintaining macroeconomic stability and continuing structural

2
 “The guarantee is expected to lead to improvements in pricing and tenor, and to contribute to
enhancing the country’s access to international capital/financial markets.” (Program Document, p. ii).
And the in the program document in Annex 2 in the Policy Matrix explicitly states under objectives:
“The IBRD guarantee will improve access to international financial/capital markets.”
                                                4


reforms aimed at improving long-term growth, employment, and poverty reduction
prospects. The country has had a strong track record on macroeconomic management and
reforms. This was especially the case in the area of investment climate and attraction of
quality FDIs in the form of green-field investments (World Bank 2015). But the country
environment was challenging in the context of international market turbulence and
uncertainty (and the country’s budget financing needs). Financial objectives of improving
access and terms to external borrowing were directly targeting those urgent needs. Policy
reform objectives were highly relevant. They targeted critical improvements in
macroeconomic stability and structural reforms in fiscal management, labor and financial
markets, and social protection. Maintenance of macro-stability was an essential condition for
a small open economy facing major regional shocks. Very high unemployment was a major
structural problem, partly related to the institutional constraints and incentives targeted by the
operation. And financial sector stability was of critical importance for the country to weather
the international and regional market turbulence. Given the prolonged Eurozone financial and
growth problems, and the difficult regional environment, these objectives remained highly
relevant when the operational phase of the project closed in 2012 and remained relevant at
the time of review. The external conditions and the country context remained broadly similar
to the time of approval in 2011.

2.6     By emphasizing policy reform to strengthen macroeconomic stability and advance
structural reforms for growth, resilience of the financial sector, and social safety nets, the
operation’s policy objectives were closely aligned to the government’s strategic documents
related to the European Union (EU) accession, including the Stabilization and Association
Agreement (European Commission 2011), National Plan on Adoption of the Acquis and the
Pre-Accession Economic Program, and the 2011 and 2012 budgets. Because the reform
program was in line with efforts to build lasting confidence within the public and domestic
and foreign investors, the objectives were also aligned with the Ohrid Framework Agreement
(2001) on the relationship with the minority community and the subsequent, related legal
reforms, which ended the previous civil hostilities in the country. These programs and
treaties, and their relevance, were current in 2012 when the financing and operational part of
the project closed, as well as in 2015 when this assessment was prepared.3

2.7      The objectives were also highly relevant to the World Bank’s Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) (October 2010) and remained relevant at the time of review. The key pillars
of the CPS were: (i) faster growth—competitiveness (including continued macroeconomic
stability); (ii) more inclusive growth—employability and social protection; and (iii) greener
growth—environmental sustainability and climate action (CPS 2010). The PBG, with its
emphasis on fiscal stability and labor market reforms, social protection, and financial sector
resilience, directly aligned with the first two pillars of the CPS.

2.8    The government’s motivation to use the PBG in pursuit of financial objectives was
based on the desire for improved access to international financial markets at lower cost and
longer maturities, and continued budget support to policy reforms addressing fiscal, labor

3

http://ec.europa.eu/enlargement/pdf/the_former_yugoslav_republic_of_macedonia/framework_agree
ment_ohrid_130801_en.pdf
                                                 5


market, social safety net, and financial sector issues in the context of a difficult external
environment.

Relevance of Design
2.9    Relevance of design was rated substantial.

2.10 The financial objective of improving the country’s access to international markets
was highly relevant to country conditions. Financial markets were penalizing even well
performing countries at the time with very high sovereign spreads. For many smaller
countries such as FYR Macedonia, that had record of solid economic management, markets
were effectively closed because of global risk aversion and uncertainty. PBGs—by reducing
the risk to commercial lenders—had the potential to induce commercial lenders to overcome
this international market failure problem and consider and potentially provide external
funding to the country. In any event, the operation worked as intended, providing the country
with a timely and sufficient volume of external funding at more favorable terms than would
have been possible in its absence. The operation was well linked to the design of the PBG––
given the country context and needs––as well as the country ambition of eventually accessing
markets independently. The other, related financial objective of improving terms of external
commercial borrowing was especially important in the context of elevated sovereign spreads.
The financial objectives were closely linked with the expected results in terms of the
government independently accessing markets in 2012 and the government raising euro loan
and bond funding with a maturity of at least five years and at an interest rate below Euribor
plus 500 basis points.

2.11 Policy reform objectives were clear and appropriately linked with reform activities.
The policy reform objective of strengthening public finances and the functioning of labor
markets was linked with key activities––which were also designed as prior actions.

       o Under the program, the law on payment of wages was amended to put in place a
         wage freeze for an extended period, until September 2012. Given the rigidity of
         the budget and the large share of the wage bill, and very low single-digit inflation,
         a nominal wage freeze was considered an essential element of controlling budget
         deficits in a fiscally and socially sustainable manner. It also helped avoid
         worsening of the composition of public expenditures towards public consumption.
         This prior action was linked to the target indicator that the government would
         maintain the wage bill at below 32 percent of general government revenues in
         2011.
       o Another prior action under this objective was the enactment of the amendments of
         the law on pensions and disability insurance that reduced pension expenditures
         through a lower “valorization coefficient” and tighter eligibility criteria for
         survivor pensions. Again, given the importance of pensions in the budget
         expenditure, this was linked to the target indicator that aimed to maintain pension
         spending at less than 9 percent of GDP in 2011. While the chain of causation is
         broadly clear, a more specific formulation of the fiscal objective in terms of the
         control of public expenditures (rather than “strengthening public finances,” which
                                               6


           is much broader) would have strengthened the link between the objective,
           policies, and the target indicator.

2.12 Under the second objective of strengthening social safety nets, an important prior
action was that the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy had developed a functional cash
benefits management information system (MIS) to the testing stage, and established a
network between social welfare centers and the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. This
reform continued on the heels of the conditional cash transfer (CCT) Project which was designed
to contribute to social protection and human capital by conditioning cash benefits on secondary
school enrollment and expanding primary and pre-primary, as well as health care and adult
training programs (CPS 2010, p.29). The MIS has been identified as a critical weak link that
undermined the efficiency and targeting of the social safety nets (see, for example, the
Implementation Completion Report Review of the earlier social protection project). This
action was well linked to the target indicator that aimed to reduce the processing time for the
social financial assistance application from a baseline of 30 days in 2011.

2.13 Under the third objective of strengthening resilience of the financial sector, a key
prior action was to establish the Financial Stability Committee (FSC) and adopt rules of
procedures for its operation. Creation of the committee was in line with international
practice. Field interviews and discussions with different agencies indicate that such a
committee was important in bringing together different parts of the government to discuss
and coordinate macro-financial policy in the context of extreme external financial
uncertainty. A related target indicator was that financial soundness indicators are regularly
reported and monitored, and the Financial Stability Report discussed and acted upon by FSC
and policy responses are coordinated among the NBRM, Ministry of Finance, and Deposit
Insurance Fund (DIF). Broadly, the implicit causal chain between these objectives and
outcomes appears to be that (1) key government agencies such as NBRM, the Ministry of
Finance, and DIF, that play important role in overall financial stability must closely
coordinate the strategy and tactics of potential responses and jointly assess risks, (2) such
enhanced coordination, risk assessment, and specific actions stand a better chance of the
country absorbing major external and financial shocks and responding in a timely manner,
and (3) that this institutional strengthening will provide greater confidence within the
financial system, helping to reduce the risk of systemic bank failures. This chain of causation
seems clear and convincing; it also rests on the prior analytical and diagnostic work and
policy dialogue that identified key activities and measurable indicators in support of the
objectives (for example, IMF 2015). At the same time, a more concrete formulation of the
objective emphasizing strengthening of monetary and regulatory institutions and reporting
for greater financial stability would have tightened the chain of causation.

2.14 The prior actions were completed as envisaged (Table 2.1). The Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) mission interviews and visits document that behind each prior action
there has been a process of intensive policy dialogue, some analytical work, and continuity of
reforms. Considered within the context of broader policy reforms and previous reforms
supported under DPL 1, these actions were appropriately limited in numbers, concrete,
significant within the country context, and measurable. Legislative reforms in prior actions
are also significant (for example, passing modern laws on the National Bank, adopting
amendments to the law on wages and putting in place public sector wage freeze, and
                                             7


developing a cash benefits MIS.) The PPAR mission visit also found that most of the reforms
supported by these prior actions have been sustained in key areas as of mid-2015.

2.15 The main exogenous factor that affected the operation was the continued turbulence
in the Eurozone and international financial markets in 2012 and, relatedly, the second
regional recession in the Western Balkans. This made the achievement of the financial
objectives more difficult. By putting downward pressure on the demand for FYR
Macedonia’s exports, it also dampened its growth trajectory and made subsequent policy
reform harder to implement.

2.16 Finally, the design of the operation was underpinned by analytical work in key areas.
This included the FYR Macedonia Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), poverty
assessment, FSAP, and public expenditure review (PER). This and the solid monitoring of
economic policy reforms and developments helped tailor the operation’s design to the
complex country context. Economic monitoring and comparative analysis was strengthened
and put in the wider regional context when the World Bank launched its regular regional
economic report in 2011.
                                                              8


Table 2.1. PBG Prior Actions
 Objective                                      Prior Actions                              Status
 Strengthening          The member country has, through enactment of the Law on         Completed.
 the sustainability     Amendments to the Law on Payment of Wages of July 20,
 of public              2010 (“Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia” –
 finances and the       OGRM - 97/2010) froze nominal government wages until
 functioning of         September 2012.
 labor markets
                        The member country has, through enactment of the Law on           Completed.
                        Amendments to the Law on Contributions from Compulsory
                        Social Insurance of December 25, 2009 (OGRM 156/2009)
                        reduced the social insurance contribution rates, and has, through
                        enactment of the Laws on Amendments to the Law on
                        Pension and Disability Insurance of December 25, 2009
                        and of December 6, 2010 (OGRM 156/2009 and 156/2010,
                        respectively), reduced pension expenditures through reduced
                        valorization coefficients and tightened eligibility criteria for
                        survivor pensions.

                        The member country has, through enactment of the Law on         Completed.
                        Amendments to the Law on Contributions from Compulsory
                        Social Insurance of April 14, 2011 (OGRM 53/2011) de-
                        The member country has adopted a program to improve the Completed.
                        linked the provision of free health insurance to registration
                        efficiency and sustainability of the health sector.
                        as unemployed and introduced an income-based test for the
                        The       ofInsurance
                             Health
                        provision              Fund
                                     free health     has adopted by-laws and a rulebook Completed.
                                                 insurance.
                        regulating the operations of the new Health Single Treasury
                        Account covering all public health institutions.
 Strengthening      The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy has developed a             Completed.
 social safety nets functional cash benefits MIS to the testing stage, and has
                    established a network between social welfare centers and the
                    Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.

                        The member country has adopted the Program on Subsidizing    Completed.
                        Energy Consumption in 2011 (OGRM 6/2011) which
                        introduces a mechanism for providing support to the poor and
                        vulnerable against electricity price increases.
 Strengthening          The member country has, through enactment of the Law on the Completed.
 the resilience of      National Bank of Republic of Macedonia on December 12, 2010
 the financial          (OGRM 158/2010), increased the accountability and
 sector                 independence of the Central Bank to EU standards.

                        The member country has established the FSC and this             Completed.
                        committee has adopted rules of procedure for its operations.
Source: World Bank 2013 (ICR), and 2011 (program document).
                                              9


3. Implementation
3.1     The PBG was the first such operation in FYR Macedonia and only second approved
by the World Bank globally in more than a decade, following the pioneering Serbia Private
and Financial Sector Policy-Based Guarantee (February 2011). The World Bank team was
learning from experience and building substantially on the positive experience with the
Serbia operation. This was helped by the fact that both operations were managed by the same
World Bank management team with some overlap in team members, which ensured seamless
transfer of knowledge and lessons from one country to the other.

3.2      Importantly, as documented during the PPAR mission and interviews, there was
considerable country-to-country consultation and learning, which was encouraged and
facilitated by the World Bank. The Ministry of Finance of the government of FYR
Macedonia, especially the debt management department, consulted closely with the Finance
Ministry of Serbia before and during the preparation of the FYR Macedonia PBG. It actively
sought to learn from the past and use the lessons from the Serbia operation to improve the
design and implementation of FYR Macedonia’s PBG.

3.3     Nevertheless, because the FYR Macedonia PBG was the first such operation in the
country, the World Bank team had to engage the government and the World Bank’s internal
structures in intensive consultations, over and above a typical effort required in preparing a
DPL. This was the case for three reasons. First, the team had to ensure that the government
made an informed choice on a new instrument. Second, it had to help with the government’s
preparation and dialogue with the international commercial banks, something that is usually
absent in a DPL. And third, the operation needed to be fully in compliance with World Bank
regulations and internal processes that had been tested only on one such operation in a
neighboring country. Preparation of the operation also required several parts of the World
Bank working together in concert under the direction of the country director: task
management and the PBG team, the broader country team, the Poverty Reduction and
Economic Management Network (PREM) (lead network), the Human Development Network
(HD), Finance and Private Sector Development (FPD), Treasury, and FINCR.

3.4     The implementing agency representing the government was the Ministry of Finance,
which played a key coordinating role. Closely involved were the NBRM, Ministry of Labor
and Social Policy and Health Insurance Fund (HIF). There were no co-financers. By design
of the PBG, financing for the budget was provided by the underwriting banks, Deutsche
Bank and Citibank, with the World Bank providing a partial guarantee for the principal.
Since the World Bank guaranteed €100 million of the total €130 million provided by the
commercial banks, the World Bank capital was leveraged, effectively “crowding in” private
commercial funding for the client government.

3.5     No safeguard policies were triggered by the operation. Based on the inspection of
prior actions, no major adverse distributional effects are anticipated from policies in the
operation. Poverty and social impact analysis of the previous DPL1 informed the design of
the PBG. A public sector wage freeze in the context of low inflation was not expected to lead
to a poverty impact because the real impact on public sector wages was limited and the
minimum public sector wage substantially exceeded the national poverty line. Maintaining
                                                   10


control of pension expenditures was needed for fiscal sustainability and this could have
adversely affected poverty because about a quarter of pensioners lived in poverty. However,
ensuring fiscal sustainability of pension expenditures helped ensure timely payment of
pensions, avoiding pension arrears, which would have been even more damaging from the
poverty standpoint. This measure was supplemented by tightening eligibility criteria and
reducing fraud, which also helped maintain timely payments of pensions. Further, the
operation is not expected to result in major direct adverse, or irreversible, environmental
impacts in the short term.4

4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1     The achievement of objectives was satisfactory. Achievement was high for four out
of five objectives, with substantial achievement of one objective. Two out of ten outcome
indicators were not achieved. This should be viewed in the country context of a second
regional recession and difficult external and internal economic environment.

Objective 1: Improving access to international financial and capital
markets: Substantial

4.2     The financial objective of the operation was to improve access to international
financial and capital markets. This implies achieving independent access in the aftermath of
the operation as well as improving the terms (maturity and interest) on its commercial
external borrowing.

4.3    The operation helped the country (i) achieve access to the needed volume of external
financing, (ii) obtain favorable terms, establishing a benchmark for subsequent international
commercial borrowing in the context of the PBG, and, (iii) access subsequent international
commercial borrowing on reasonable terms.

4.4     Two outcome indicators were appropriately chosen. The first was that the government
would raise funding independently from international markets in 2012. The second was that
the government would obtain Euro loan funding with maturity of at least five years and at an
interest rate below Euribor plus 500 basis points, which was considered as not adding
significantly to the debt service burden.

4.5     Both outcome indicators were substantially achieved. Following the completion of
the operation, in 2012, the government accessed the international markets independently by
borrowing €75 million from Deutsche Bank at five years maturity and interest slightly above
500 basis points above Euribor. While the 500 basis points mark was slightly missed, it
should be seen in the context of renewed market turbulence. As a result, the second indicator
is also considered substantially achieved.


4
 This is, in part, due to the legislative and institutional nature of many prior actions and because none
of the actions relate to issues of forestry, agriculture, and mining that might have direct environmental
and social repercussions.
                                                11


4.6     The context is important to understanding these achievements. Before the operation,
in 2009, the government issued a Eurobond at very unfavorable terms (3.5 years and 9.875
percent interest). It also attempted to access the bond market in 2010, but it had to cancel this
effort after the country road show because the terms became prohibitive with renewed
escalation of spreads due to the Greek crisis. These two experiences illustrate the difficulty
the country had in accessing international markets during those difficult times in the
international financial environment, despite the country’s strong macroeconomic
management, creditworthiness, and a track record of structural reforms.

4.7     By contrast, the PBG provided the international commercial loan from Deutsche
Bank and Citibank, with a World Bank guarantee, of €130 million for five years, at an
interest rate of 234 basis points above the Euribor. The World Bank provided a partial
guarantee of the principal, covering €100 million of the total loan amount, leveraging the
World Bank’s capital. The country benefitted from substantial lengthening of maturit y and
lowering of yields, which provided a cost saving of at least 300-400 basis points compared to
what may have been possible in the international commercial markets at the time (Najdov
2013).

4.8      Financial benefits of the operation also helped broader fiscal and macroeconomic
stability and domestic economic activity. By providing more than half of the financing
needed to cover the budget deficit without adding to current debt service because of the
bullet repayment design, the PBG temporarily relieved pressure from government borrowing
on the domestic markets. Nevertheless, it is important to recognize that the bullet repayment
feature is not a “free lunch.” It is essential for the borrower to make periodic provisions or to
build reserves for the repayment of bullet repayment to reduce repayment risk later on.

4.9     Furthermore, by establishing a relatively favorable benchmark at an especially
turbulent time in the international markets, the operation provided a positive signal to the
markets that this creditworthy country was, indeed, able to borrow at those terms from major
international banks. Also, the operation helped introduce the country to the international
commercial bank markets for the first time, and it helped broaden FYR Macedonia’s investor
base, making it more known and potentially attractive to investors in the future. This
potentially reduced the perception of the country’s sovereign risk at a time of heightened
sovereign spreads. As noted previously, subsequent to the PBG, the government of FYR
Macedonia successfully accessed international bank markets independently by borrowing
€75 million from the Deutsche Bank for five years at slightly above 500 basis points. While
the cost was slightly above the target, this reflected the market conditions at the time. Two
years later––and following the second PBG operation––the country managed to borrow at
even longer maturity and historically much lower interest rate (Table 4.1).5




5
 In 2013, the government used the subsequent, second PBG (public expenditure PBG—PEPBG, see
IEG PPAR on this operation 2016) to borrow €250 million at a low, 3.915 percent interest rate, in
two tranches of five and seven years of maturity.
                                                             12


Table 4.1. FYR Macedonia External Borrowing (Eurobonds and bank loans)
         Year                        Amount                           Maturity              Interest
         2014                           500                                7                 3.975
         2012*                           75                                5                 6.35
         2009                           175                               3.5                9.875
         2005                           150                                10                4.625
Source: FYR Macedonia Ministry of Finance Annual Debt Management Report 2006, 2009, 2014.
* Loan from Deutsche Bank.

Objective 2: Strengthening public finances and functioning of labor
markets: Modest

4.10 The following outcome indicators monitored progress under the objective of
strengthening the sustainability of public finances and functioning of labor markets: (i) The
general government wage bill was maintained at below 32 percent of general government
revenues in 2011; (ii) an increase in the number of formal workers with paid social insurance
contributions from 407,887 in 2009 to 420,000 in 2011; (iii) pension spending was
maintained at less than nine percent of GDP in 2011; (iv) arrears in the public health sector
(Health Insurance Fund and health care institutions) did not exceed 1.7 billion denars (0.4
percent of GDP) in 2011; and (v) comprehensive financial reports on public health
institutions were available publicly on a monthly basis in 2011. The outcome indicators
broadly corresponded to the prior actions under this objective. Achievement of each indicator
is discussed below.

4.11 The general government wage bill maintained at below 32 percent of general
government revenues in 2011. Achieved.

4.12 The relevant prior action was that the government froze government wages in
nominal terms September 2012 by enacting the Law on the Amendments to the Law on
Payment of Wages. The government maintained the nominal wage freeze as envisaged. As a
result, the government wage bill control was maintained. The wage freeze was more than a
temporary measure in the context of very low annual inflation. The government extended the
nominal wage freeze through December 2013, beyond the horizon of the original program.
This resulted in the overall wage bill remaining broadly flat in the 2010-13 period. As a share
of total government revenues, the wage bill was maintained well below the target (Table 4.2).
It should be noted, however, the ceiling (32 percent) on wages as a percent of general
government revenue appears high.
                                                                 13


Table 4.2. FYR Macedonia Wages Bill and Government Revenues
                                          2010           2011           2012           2013            2014            2015
 In Billions of Denar
 Wages and salaries                        22.6           23.1           22.7           22.6           23.4            24.5
 Revenue                                  131.6          136.4          137.4          139.7          149.8            16.1
 GDP                                      437.0          464.0          467.0          499.6          525.8           549.2
 Wages / Revenue (%)                       17.2           16.9           16.5           16.2           15.4            15.2
Source: IMF Country Report No. 15/18 (2015). Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Staff Report for Program Post-Monitoring and
Press Release (Table 2, p. 23). http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2015/cr1518.pdf.

4.13 Increase the number of formal workers with paid social insurance contributions
from 407,887 in 2009 to 420,000 in 2011. Achieved.

4.14 A prior action associated with this indicator was the reduction of social insurance
contribution rates through the adoption of the Law on Modifications and the Amendments of
the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance. It was a part of the longer-term government
policy. Social insurance contributions were reduced from 28.4 to 27 percent. Viewed in a
longer perspective since 2008, social contributions were reduced from 32 to 27 percent; as of
mid-2015, the 27 percent rate was unchanged. The objective of this measure was to further
reduce the “tax wedge” and incentives for employment. Relatedly, the law separated the right
to mandatory health insurance from the requirement for registration for the unemployed,
which had in the past resulted in incentives to over-report unemployment. The government
also introduced other measures to improve incentives for employment in the private sector.
This strengthened incentives for payment of contributions in the formal sector. The
enactment of the law resulted in a substantial reduction in the number of improperly
registered unemployed persons and a reduction in the overall number of unemployed; from
there on, the latter figure better reflected the actual number of unemployed. Subsequent to the
law, there was an increase in the number of workers in the formal sector with paid social
insurance contributions from 407,887 in 2009 to 467,609 in 2012, substantially exceeding the
target. The PPAR mission was informed that the latest figure available for 2015 exceeded
500,000.

4.15 Pension spending is maintained at less than nine percent of GDP in 2011. Not
Achieved.

The prior action related to this indicator was that the government has improved control over
pension expenditures by adopting amendments of the Law on Pension and Disability
Insurance (OGRM, no. 156/2009) which reduced the valorization coefficient (which adjusts
the salaries of previous years for determining the amount of pension), thus having a cost-
reducing effect on the pension system. Additionally, the reform aimed to equalize conditions
for exercising the right to survival pension for both men and women. These actions were
expected to contribute to the control of pension spending. In any event, pension spending for
2011-13 was maintained below 9 percent of GDP (Table 4.3). In 2014, pensions exceeded
the 9 percent benchmark as a result of an ad-hoc increase in pensions indicating difficulty in
sustaining this achievement. Importance of prudent approach to pension spending should be
                                                                 14


seen in the context of the rapid aging of the population and, in particular, baby boomer, post-
World War II generation retirement. Currently, about 18 percent of the Macedonian
population (total of 1.06 million) are over 60, and 17 percent are under 14 years of age. The
total fertility rate is below the replacement level (1.5), which means the population is
projected to decline and age in coming years. By 2050, the population is projected to be only
1.8 million, and 35 percent of it will be over 60 (World Bank 2015).
Table 4.3. FYR Macedonia Pensions as Percent of GDP
       2010                   2011                  2011                   2013                    2014   2015
        8.6                    8.5                   8.8                    9.2                     9.1    9.1
Source: IMF September 2015. http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2015/cr15242.pdf (Table 2b).

4.16 Arrears in the public health sector (Health Insurance Fund and Health Care
Institutions) do not exceed 1.7 billion denars (0.4 percent of GDP) in 2011. Not achieved.

4.17 The prior action here was that the government adopted a program to improve the
efficiency and sustainability of the health sector. This program and a number of actions were
expected to lead to multiple improvements. One important improvement was the introduction
of the Single Treasury Account for the Health Sector, which substantially improved
monitoring, controls, and transparency of expenditures in the entire health sector. This
system allows tracking of revenues, expenditures, debt, and other financial indicators. This
information is regularly published on the Health Insurance Fund’s website in quarterly
reports. As a result of these and other measures, arrears in the health sector were kept within
the 1.7 billion denar limit and then eliminated by 2013. However, by November 2015, these
arrears resurfaced and stood at 0.7 percent of GDP, exceeding the target. It is of interest in
this context that in the subsequent policy dialogue in 2012, it emerged that there were other
payment arrears, which were subsequently cleared. (PPAR of Public Expenditure Policy
Based Guarantee, May 2016, p.8). These arrears were building up during the preparation and
supervision of the present operation, but that information only became known later in 2012 in
the context of the subsequent policy based guarantee. If it was not for this issue, the overall
assessment of this objective would have been substantial.

4.18 Comprehensive financial reports on public health institutions were available
publicly on a monthly basis in 2011. Achieved.

4.19 The prior action was that the HIF adopted by-laws and a rulebook regulating the
operations of the new Health Single Treasury Account covering all public health institutions.
Following the reforms, HIF began publishing annual financial reports with detailed financial
information on public health institutions. These reports and other detailed information on the
health sector are published regularly on the HIF website: http://www.fzo.org.mk/default-
mk.asp.

Objective 3: Strengthening social safety nets: Modest

4.20 Two outcome indicators measured expected results under the objective of
strengthening social safety nets: (i) processing time for social financial assistance application
                                               15


reduced from a baseline of 30 days in 2011, and (ii) the percentage of cash benefits going to
the poorest quintile increased from 37 percent in 2009 to 40 percent in 2011, and increased
further thereafter.

4.21 Processing time for social financial assistance application reduced from a
baseline of 30 days in 2011. Mostly achieved.

4.22 Under this objective, the first prior action was that the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy developed a functional cash benefits MIS to the testing stage, and established a
network between social welfare centers and the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. This is
an important achievement in the management of information, reporting, transparency, and
inter-agency interconnectivity for the administration of cash benefits. The Ministry of Labor
and Social Policy developed a new, fully functional cash based MIS, including a virtual
private network between the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and the social welfare
centers , ensuring the security of data, and functionality and access to the system for all social
welfare centers and the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. Additional interconnectivities
are under consideration. In terms of outcome indicator achievement, although the system was
in a startup stage in 2011, the expected reduction in processing time in 2011 could not be
documented. However, in 2012, the average processing time for new applications for social
financial assistance benefits was reported at 19 days. Average processing time for social
financial assistance for the existing beneficiary households, which registered change in their
households, was 13 days.

4.23 Percentage of cash benefits going to the poorest quintile will increase from 37
percent in 2009 to 40 percent in 2011, with further increases thereafter. Not achieved.

4.24 According to the household consumption survey, which is conducted every year by
the State Statistical Office of the Republic of Macedonia, the percentage of cash benefits
going to the poorest quintile was 37.4 percent in 2009. In 2011, the percentage of cash
benefits intended for the poorest quintile was 34.5 percent.6

4.25 In a related move, the government adopted its Program on Subsidizing Energy
Consumption in 2011 (OGRM 6/2011), which introduced a mechanism for providing
assistance to the poor and vulnerable against electricity price increases. This program
provided additional, top-up payments through the same administration as the improved
targeting pool of beneficiaries under the social financial assistance program. As such, it
increased benefit generosity while maintaining targeting of the poor and vulnerable. The
program has been extended by the decision of the government in each year. It contains
elements of self-enforcement in that it paid a reimbursement for the paid bills to the
electricity company. Therefore, it may have contributed on the margin to the payment and
financial discipline of the electricity company.




6
 Website of the State Statistics Office:
http://www.stat.gov.mk/PrikaziPublikacija_en.aspx?id=2&rbr=545.
                                               16


Objective 4: Strengthening resilience of the financial sector: Substantial

4.26 Financial soundness indicators (FSI) were regularly reported and monitored and
the Financial Stability Report discussed and acted upon by the FSC, and policy
responses were coordinated among the NBRM, Ministry of Finance, and Deposit
Insurance Fund. Achieved.

4.27 NBRM publishes regular annual financial stability reports.7 Reports contain a
comprehensive picture of the financial stability issues and indicators in the country.
Extensive financial soundness indicators are also available and downloadable into
spreadsheet. It contains data from 2007, updated to the first quarter of 2015.

4.28 Importantly, the PBG also supported the establishment of the FSC in September 2011
based on good international practice. Since then, there are regular FSC meetings monitoring
and reviewing financial stability. Coordination across agencies on issues of financial stability
improved. The establishment of the FSC was a learning process and it set into motion
subsequent measures. The FSC is chaired by the governor of the NBRM with 10 members,
equally split between NBRM and the Ministry of Finance. In crisis situations, requiring the
commitment of public financial resources, chairmanship shifts to the Minister of Finance.
The FSC structure and functionality has been stable since inception. The FSC has a wide
mandate to discuss various issues not only related to the crisis, including Basel II, and fit and
proper criteria, for example. As a result, it developed an important knowledge function.
Finally, outside the narrow FSC mandate, formal and informal communication channels were
established and strengthened with other regulators and agencies. This has helped improve
sector-wide communication, sharing of information, and coordination (for example, between
the Agency for Insurance Supervision, Agency for Pension Fund Supervision, and the
Securities Commission).

5. Ratings
Outcome: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1      The objectives were highly relevant, both in terms of the government’s strategic
priorities and the World Bank’s strategy, especially considering the international financial
context and the country’s borrowing needs and continuum of reforms. The design was
substantially relevant, combining the objectives of improving access to international markets
with policy reform objectives in the areas of public finance and labor markets, safety nets,
and the financial sector. Each of these policy areas represented a continuum of reforms and
dialogue from the previous DPL1. Associated policy actions were also rooted in prior
analytical work and policy dialogue that informed the operation’s design. Moreover, these
achievements were made in the particularly complex external economic environment.

5.2    The PBG was an innovative instrument that met the government’s need for larger
budgetary financing than would have been possible under a standard DPL, while helping

7
    NBRM website: http://www.nbrm.mk/?ItemID=E93CE394DF9E684F9356289B19564FD5.
                                               17


advance policy reform in key areas. The absence of the IMF program put an additional
burden of proof on the World Bank team that the macroeconomic framework and debt
sustainability were adequate for the purpose of the PBG. The country’s strong track record
on macroeconomic policies and structural reforms ensured that the country met the PBG
eligibility criteria.

5.3     Efficacy was mixed. The critical indicators under objectives 1 (improving access to
international markets), and 4 (strengthening resilience of financial sector) were substantially
achieved. However, the issue of arrears in the health sector, in the context of other payment
arrears that were building at the time and became subject of the subsequent policy based
guarantee undermined the otherwise solid achievement of the second objective of
strengthening public finances and functioning labor markets. The achievement of the third
objective (strengthening social safety net) was also modest with one target achieved but the
other not.

5.4     The PPAR mission discussion with the stakeholders and the information collected
indicates that the broad reforms under the PBG were sustained and, in several areas,
deepened, as noted previously. The achievement and sustainability of these reforms and
outcomes should also be seen in the context of particularly difficult external and domestic
environment that prevailed from 2011 through mid-2015, which included a triple regional
recession and weather-related supply shocks (See South East Europe Regular Economic
Reports, World Bank, 2012-14).

5.5     Finally, beyond the outcome indicator achievements, the PBG contributed to broader
macroeconomic stability and economic activity, among other things, by providing timely
budget financing, relieving pressure on the domestic banking system, and giving more room
of maneuver to monetary and fiscal authorities, and to the government to pursue a broad
reform agenda. The Central Bank would have likely had to reduce monetary accommodation
in the absence of the PBG, with attendant effects on economic activity. And the government
would have had to borrow from the domestic banking system or at higher commercial rates
abroad. Also, by broadening the investor base and confidence, the operation has contributed
to strengthening the country’s standing in the commercial markets and has eased future
external financing constraints. Reforms supported under the operation were sustained, and
continued under the follow up, 2013 PBG, which focused on public expenditures. That
operation is the subject of a separate PPAR currently under way.

Risk to Development Outcome: Moderate

5.6     As noted previously, reform actions and outcomes under the operation were broadly
sustained over the past four years under difficult external and domestic conditions. Yet, FYR
Macedonia’s economy faces substantial external and, potentially, political and policy
implementation risks. The PPAR team’s assessment is that those risks are moderated by the
government’s solid track record and the quality of key economic ministries, learning from the
past global recession, and improved capacity of the government to deal with macroeconomic
and external risks. As a result, risk to outcomes is rated moderate.
                                               18


5.7     On the external-macroeconomic side, while the banking system remains well
capitalized and provisions are adequate, non-performing loans continue to pose a threat under
conditions of new major shocks. This risk is mitigated by continuous, close monitoring of the
banking sector risks and stronger capacity in the NBRM and FSC to deal with banking sector
shocks than four years ago. While the country’s debt increased, it remains moderate, and
given constrained growth prospects, there is limited fiscal space for further increases in
indebtedness. As a result, fiscal prudence will continue to depend on the government’s ability
to maintain control over public sector wages and pensions, something that may prove
difficult in the context of the heightened political uncertainty and tensions in recent months.
External risks, including from the new spillovers from the Greek crisis or other vulnerable
European economies, remain. But the government’s monetary and fiscal tools and capacity to
cushion these impacts are now stronger than four years ago, in large part because of the
intervening reforms. Finally, recent political tensions in FYR Macedonia underscore the
difficulty of maintaining political consensus in the economic environment characterized by a
weak regional economy, slow growth, and large unemployment; there is a risk that this may
affect policy implementation in the future.

World Bank Performance: Satisfactory

Quality at Entry: Satisfactory

5.8     The PBG was an innovative operation, building on the pioneering PBG operation in
Serbia six months earlier. It met the government’s critical need to raise sufficient resources to
finance its budget during difficult external conditions––and it did so in a timely fashion
despite demanding preparation, which included coordination with third parties (commercial
banks) and more intensive dialogue and informal technical assistance. It financed half of the
projected fiscal deficit in 2012, providing four times larger resources than would have been
possible under a standard DPO.

5.9      World Bank management and the team learned from the previous operation in several
ways. This includes keeping the operation and its policy framework from becoming too
complex and limiting the number of outcome indicators, as well as providing timely informal
technical assistance to the government in what was a new type of operation for the borrower.
This additional investment of World Bank time and resources was above what would have
been required under a standard DPO. The team also invested additional efforts to navigate
the World Bank’s internal processes in preparing what was still a new instrument. The PPAR
interviews and field visits indicate that the World Bank’s regulatory framework guiding
PBGs was still relatively untested and there were questions about the interpretation of some
of its elements (for example, the track record used as a criterion of eligibility, the World
Bank’s country headroom borrowing limit, the definition of World Bank capital leverage,
and so on). As a result, the World Bank team and the borrower spent considerable time on
clarifications to apply and comply with the regulatory framework for PBGs on a tight
schedule. However, there is no evidence that this has affected the expeditious preparation of
the operation.

5.10 PPAR interviews indicate a very good working relationship of trust between the
World Bank and the borrower. They indicate wide appreciation of the World Bank staff’s
                                              19


intensive engagement with the client, including ensuring that the operation was prepared in a
timely fashion to meet the budget cycle of the government. The World Bank closely
coordination with the IMF even though the IMF did not have a program with the country at
the time. The World Bank and IMF teams had a clear division of labor and complementarity
of focus with the IMF concentrated on macroeconomic policies and macro-critical issues,
and the World Bank on structural reforms. Because there was no IMF program at the time,
the World Bank team appropriately invested more effort in monitoring and assessing
macroeconomic policies.

5.11 Preparation of the operation started a year before approval but was delayed because
of the intervening elections in May 2011. Following the elections, the World Bank team
moved rapidly and completed the operation within several months. Despite interruptions and
the speed of preparation following the elections, the World Bank maintained high-quality
dialogue and engagement. Finally, the operation built on the previous DPL1 as well as
analytical work focused on aspects of growth and investment climate, public expenditures,
and the financial sector.

Quality of supervision: Satisfactory

5.12 The World Bank team remained engaged following the operation’s approval. It
provided continued monitoring of the reform program and dialogue with the government in
the context of several missions combined with other project preparations and analytical work.
The World Bank has also stepped up monitoring of macroeconomic and structural reforms
and developments in the context of the regular regional economic report. With the absence of
the IMF program, the World Bank continued to play an important role in maintaining a broad
macroeconomic and structural policy dialogue. It is in this context of continued dialogue and
reforms––but also continuing uncertainties stemming from the Eurozone and international
financial markets––that the second PBG was developed later in 2013, building on the
achievements in financial and policy reform objectives of this PBG.

Borrower Performance: Satisfactory

5.13 The government showed strong commitment and ownership of the PBG policy
reform and the financial objectives of improving access to international markets. The
borrower’s trust in the World Bank’s ability to deliver was apparently strong. That trust was
strengthened in the course of developing the operation as the World Bank team delivered on
the client request with a timely and large volume of financing using a new instrument.

5.14 The government’s main ministries and agencies––the Ministry of Finance, NBRM,
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, and the Health Insurance Fund––were closely engaged
in the policy dialogue. Technical-level staff engagement, communication, and reporting with
the World Bank team were very good. The Ministry of Finance played very well the key
coordinating role. And NBRM engagement was critical on the financial sector agenda.

5.15 The government actively sought to learn from the previous PBG experience in Serbia.
It consulted that country’s Ministry of Finance and its Public Debt Administration
extensively in the course of preparation for the operation. This country-to-country learning
                                              20


and collaboration is an important feature of operation preparation, and the World Bank
actively encouraged it.

5.16 The borrower’s reporting and provision of information to World Bank staff was
satisfactory. Cooperation with the World Bank team was strong and featured a frank
dialogue, including on politically difficult issues. Productive and direct virtual
communications with the World Bank’s technical counterparts were frequent and helped
maintain the continuity of dialogue between missions. All prior actions were met as well as
non-prior actions which were part of the policy matrix and the achievement of outcomes was
high. PPAR field visits indicated that in most policy areas, reforms continued, indicating the
sustainability of the policy reform agenda under the PBG. Building on the experience of this
PBG, the next stage of reforms was supported by the second PBG in 2013.

Monitoring and Evaluation: Substantial

5.17 Design. The M&E framework was solid. Objectives were clearly defined and linked
to actions and outcome indicators. Indicators were more limited than is often the case in
DPLs, a welcome element of design. They were generally measurable, quantitative, and
identifiable with some institutional indicators. Of the 11 indicators, eight were quantitative,
making their assessment relatively straightforward. Several were more in the nature of output
indicators, but were important to monitor to maintain control of the government budget (for
example, pension expenditures as percent of GDP, and wage bills). The other three were
identifiable events or institutional actions (for example, the government raising funding
independently in the international markets and regular reporting of financial soundness
indicators). In most cases, the same or related indicators and information could be tracked
and updated three and a half years after operation approval, which made it possible to obtain
a sense of sustainability of reform actions and outcomes. In a few cases (pension
expenditures and wage bills) target indicators could have been more ambitious, but this
should be understood in the context of structural constraints on public sector employment
partly related to the Ohrid Agreement.

5.18 Data required were generally available from the government’s public sources from
the relevant ministries and agencies (for example, the Ministry of Finance, NBRM, Ministry
of Labor and Social Welfare, and National Health Foundation) and comparative
macroeconomic indicators (for example, IMF macroeconomic data, and so on). Quantitative
indicators had clear baselines.

5.19 Implementation. Most indicators were quantitative and measured. There was
considerable prior consultation and agreement with the borrower on the choice of the
indicators. There was also adequate consultation with the IMF on macroeconomic and fiscal
issues. The Ministry of Finance had a coordinating role with other agencies which monitored
and reported indicators in their domains. This arrangement worked effectively.

5.20 Utilization. Indicators were used to inform the direction of reforms. Tracking wage
bill and pension spending, for example, were used to monitor the success of expenditure
control and implementation of the budget. And processing time for applications for social
financial assistance was monitored to assess the efficiency of implementation of the cash
                                              21


benefits MIS. Financial soundness indicators are continuously used by the NBRM and the
FSC to monitor the health of the banking system and they are regularly reported on the
NBRM website and available for download by the public.

6. Lessons
6.1    This operation offers several lessons for the future design of PBGs. Some may be of
broader interest for the use of the instrument, while others are more project specific.

6.2    Regarding broader lessons for the use of the PBGs, the following three could be
considered.

6.3     First, The PBG remains a fairly unknown and underutilized instrument globally,
despite its potential. Therefore, the World Bank could usefully and systematically inform the
borrowers of the PBG option and discuss its benefits and risks. Recent regulatory reform by
OPCS, which brought PBGs under the umbrella of DPO policy regulation, is an important
step in the direction of mainstreaming PBGs as a specific type of DPO.

6.4      Second, PBGs appear to be a suitable instrument of providing financing for the
budget for other countries, expanding the World Bank’s toolkit of DPO varieties. PBGs
could potentially have wide applicability, especially, for example, in many small, vulnerable
economies with substantial external financing needs and with a solid track record of
macroeconomic performance, debt management, and policy reform and a good dialogue with
the World Bank. But PBGs could also be relevant to larger World Bank borrowers with
large, temporary financing needs combined with strong macro management and reforms.
Demand for PBGs is likely to increase during periods of elevated market risks and worsened
access and terms of sovereign borrowing. Anticipating these conditions and changes in
demand for PBGs could be factored into the Bank’s regional lending strategies.

6.5      Third, PBGs have the potential to leverage and increase the turnover of World Bank
capital on the margin from the perspective of the country lending allocation. IBRD
guaranteed €100 million of the total principal of €130 million. And with the PBGs, World
Bank capital is released and available for existing and new client borrowers much earlier
(after the five to seven years that PBG maturities typically have) compared with traditional
DPOs (over 20 years).

6.6     It is important to recognize the potential risk to World Bank capital and, indeed, its
financial standing associated with a potential default on one or more guarantees in the future.
There is a risk of contagion to other PBG borrowers and consequent downgrading of World
Bank client sovereign ratings. While this risk is currently small because of the small number
of PBG operations, greater use of the instrument will require close monitoring and
continuous risk assessments at the regional and global levels.

6.7     Several project-specific lessons have emerged, which may be of broader interest for
the future design of PBGs.
                                               22


6.8     First, while the direct financial benefits of PBGs to improve market access and terms
of external borrowing, and the ability of a country to borrow more than under a traditional
DPO, are substantial, there are other, indirect benefits. Those benefits could be usefully
highlighted and explained to potential future borrowers based on the early PBG experience.
For example, the borrower is able to establish itself in the eyes of international investors and
broaden the investor base, which can be very useful for small countries that are not well
known to international lenders. Also, by providing substantial external financing to the
budget at the right time, PBGs can help temporarily both macroeconomic stability and
economic activity by relieving pressure on the domestic banking system and allowing
domestic banks to provide more credit to the private sector.

6.9    Second, strong and relevant design and high achievement is much more likely when
the operation’s design is informed by considerable knowledge work, intensive and longer-
term World Bank engagement and dialogue, and, especially important, a relationship of trust
between the World Bank and the Borrower.

6.10 Third, it is important to recognize that a PBG is no free lunch. The substantial
financing it provides should not be used by clients to postpone but to facilitate reforms and
necessary adjustments. Hence, a strong reform program is essential. Also, while the bullet
repayment feature temporarily relieves repayment and fiscal pressure, it could add to
borrower risk of repayment in the future unless it is accompanied by ex-ante provisions equal
to the amount required under a standard annual repayment schedule. Repayment options and
their pros and cons should, therefore, be discussed at length with the client. Standard
repayment schedules should normally be preferred and bullet repayments should be
accompanied by a World Bank recommendation (or requirement) to the Borrower to make
annual provisions.

6.11 Fourth, this operation shows that the World Bank is particularly effective when it
promotes the regional and global public good of country-to-country learning during
preparation of similar projects in different countries. This is especially the case when testing
relatively new instruments as was the case with PBGs. The FYR Macedonia PBG benefitted
from consultations the FYR Macedonia government held with the government of Serbia on
the costs and benefits and technical details of the operation. The World Bank took an active
part in these consultations and encouraged this productive learning. The World Bank team
itself has shown that the lessons from the first PBG in the region on Serbia were absorbed
and integrated into the design of the FYR Macedonia operation.

6.12 Fifth, financial sector supervision and regulation can help preserve macroeconomic
and financial stability in the face of substantial external shocks and adverse local conditions.
At a time when many a country in Europe faced bankruptcy or major interventions of
systemic banks, FYR Macedonia’s fiscal and monetary authorities managed to maintain
stability by a combination of active monitoring, a focus on stability, and anticipation of the
impact of regional shocks.
                                                  23


References
Doemeland, Doerte, Shimbov, Bojan, Davies-Cole, and Nancy Sabina. 2015. “FYR Macedonia - Public
       expenditure review: fiscal policy for growth.” Working Paper. Report No. 93913-MK.
       Washington, DC: World Bank. http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2015/11/25492850/fyr-
       macedonia-public-expenditure-review-fiscal-policy-growth
European Commission. 2011. “Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Progress Report.” Commission
        Staff Working Paper No. 1203. Brussels, Belgium.
Independent Evaluation Group. 2009. The World Bank’s Group Guarantee Instruments: Independent
        Evaluation. Washington, DC: World Bank.
International Monetary Fund, 2012b. “FYR Macedonia IMF Article IV Consultation.” IMF Country Report
         12/133. Washington, DC: IMF. http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2012/cr12133.pdf
______. 2012a. “FYR Macedonia IMF Country Report: Selected Issues.” IMF Country Report 12/134.
        Washington, DC: IMF. http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2012/cr12134.pdf
______. 2015. “FYR Macedonia. Staff Report for the Fourth Post -Program Monitoring Discussions; and
        Press Release.” IMF Country Report 15/18. Washington, DC: IMF.
        http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2015/cr1518.pdf
Najdov, Evgenij. 2013. “FYR Macedonia Policy-Based Guarantee: Supporting the Development Agenda
        and Strengthening Access to Capital Markets.” Europe and Central Asia knowledge brief. Issue
        No. 60. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Bank. 2009. “Program Document for a Proposed First Programmatic Development Policy Loan in
       the Amount of EUR 20.5 Mission (US$30 Million Equivalent) to the Former Yugoslav Republic
       of Macedonia.” Report No. 50883-MK. Washington, DC.
______. 2010. “Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of - Country partnership strategy for the period
        FY11-FY14.” Report No. 54928-MK. Washington, DC: World Bank Group.
        http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2010/09/12810338/former-yugoslav-republic-
        macedonia-country-partnership-strategy-period-fy11-fy14
______. 2011a. “Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - Policy Based Guarantee Program.” Report No.
        59914. Washington, DC. http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2011/10/15328028/former-
        yugoslav-republic-macedonia-policy-based-guarantee-program
______. 2011b. “Implementation Completion and Results Report for the First Programmatic Developme nt
        Policy Loan (PDPL 1) for FYR of Macedonia. Report No. ICR1958. ” Washington, DC.
______. 2012. “Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of - Country partnership strategy completion report
        (CPSCR) review for the period FY2011-14.” Report No. 71635-MK. Washington, DC: World
        Bank Group. http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTMACEDONIA/Resources/CPSPREN.pdf
______. 2013. “Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - Policy Based Guarantee Project.”
        Implementation Completion and Results Report. Report No. ICR27900. Washington, DC.
        http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2013/05/17998250/former-yugoslav-republic-
        macedonia-policy-based-guarantee-project
______. 2014. “Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of - Country partnership strategy completion report
        (CPSCR) review for the period FY2011-14: IEG review.” Report No. 90719. Washington, DC:
        World Bank Group. http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2014/09/20213654/macedonia-
        former-yugoslav-republic-country-partnership-strategy-completion-report-cpscr-review-period-
        fy2011-14-ieg-review
                                                24


Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet
POLICY BASED GUARANTEE (G-2080-MK, P125837)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)

                             Appraisal             Actual or            Actual as % of
                             estimate           current estimate       appraisal estimate
Total project costs           134.90                 134.90                   100
Loan amount                    134.90                  134.90                    100


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements

                                                                     FY 11
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                                            134.90
Actual (US$M)                                                        134.90
Actual as % of appraisal                                             100


Project Dates

                                                  Original                      Actual
Concept Review                                   02/18/2011                   02/18/2011
Appraisal                                        09/16/2011                   09/16/2011
Board approval                                   11/10/2011                   11/10/2011
Signing                                          11/22/2011                   11/22/2011
Effectiveness                                    12/07/2011                   12/07/2011
Closing                                          12/31/2012                   12/31/2012


Task Team members

            Name                          Responsibility/Specialty                     Unit
Lending and Supervision
Evgenij Najdov             Task Team Leader                                        ECSP2
Marina Wes                 Lead Economist                                          ECSP2
Rajna Cemerska             Operations Officer                                      ECSH3
Rekha Menon                Senior Economist                                        EASH1
Ronald Hendriks            Consultant
Johannes Koettl            Senior Economist                                         ECSHD
Martin Melecky             Sr Financial Sector Spec.                               ECSF2
Aurora Ferrari             Manager                                                 ECSF1
                                                25                                 APPENDIX A


          Name                              Responsibility/Specialty                  Unit
Daniel Bruncic             Consultant
Snjezana Plevko            Senior Economist                                        ECSH3
Bojana Naceva              Senior Education Specialist                             ECSH2
Lewis Hawke                Senior Financial Management Specialist                  ECSC3
Julie Rieger               Senior Counsel                                          LEGLE
Nikolai Soubbotin          Lead Counsel                                            LEGEM
Thomas A. Duvall           Chief Counsel                                           LEGCF
Neil Ashar                 Counsel                                                 LEGCF
Pilar Gonzalez             Counsel                                                 LEGCF
Jose C. Janeiro            Senior Finance Officer                                  CTRFC


Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
 Stage of Project Cycle                                                   US$ Thousands
                                        No. of staff weeks             (including travel and
                                                                         consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY11                       24.5                          98,570.83
 Supervision
                                               7.02                          52,277.58
                                                26


Appendix B. The Bank’s Experience with Policy-Based
Guarantees
Although the World Bank introduced the policy-based guarantee (PBG) in 1975 and has
completed eight operations, very little independent evaluative evidence exists on the
instrument’s effectiveness and development impact.8 Between 1975 and 2015, the World
Bank implemented PBGs in Côte d’Ivoire (1975); Argentina (1999); Colombia (2001);
Serbia (2001); the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (2012, 2013); Montenegro
(2012); and Albania (2015) (see table B.1). The $5.6 million Côte d’Ivoire operation was
evaluated in 1985 and its development outcome was rated as Unsatisfactory.9 The $250
million PBG for Argentina, which was an innovative use of the guarantee instrument, was
called, but the Implementation Complement Report (ICR) does not seem to be publicly
available.10 There is, however, a brief ICR Review for the Argentina Special Structural
Adjustment Loan (SSAL), in which part of the 2nd tranche was cancelled and allocated to a
separate $1.1 billion PBG. The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) rated this operation’s
development outcome as well as borrower performance, as Unsatisfactory.11 A more
extensive discussion of the Argentine experience can be found in IEG’s evaluation of the
guarantee instrument at the World Bank Group.12 No Project Performance Assessment

8
 For a list of policy-based guarantees, see
http://www.worldbank.org/projects/search?lang=en&searchTerm=Policy-Based%20Guarantee.
9
 http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P001113/small-scale-enterprise-project?lang=en. Neither the
ICR Review nor the PPAR for that operation are publicly available.
10
     http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P068845/argentina-policy-based-guarantee-operation?lang=en
 IEG ICR Review – AR Special SAL (SSL), 2003,
11

http://lnweb90.worldbank.org/oed/oeddoclib.nsf/DocUNIDViewForJavaSearch/8525682E006860378
5256C54006BA2D0?OpenDocument
12
   http://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTGUARANTE/Resources/guarantees_eval_full.pdf.
According to this IEG evaluation (2009), in the case of the two PBGs for Argentina and Columbia,
the guarantees exerted considerable leverage—generating financing of 4.7 times the value of the PBG
in Argentina and 6.3 times its value in Colombia. The Colombia operation achieved investment grade
status which enabled the country to reestablish access to international capital markets at a time when
investor interest was low or nonexistent. In Argentina, although the country was able to access both
U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets at similar terms, the PBG enabled it to issue a significantly larger
bond ($1.2 billion) than would otherwise have been possible at the time. In Argentina and Colombia,
although both countries had previously accessed international capital markets, the PBGs effectively
reintroduced their large bond issues to international markets at a time when they were either closed to
emerging market economies or constrained to small volumes. Following the collapse of the
Argentinean financial system, the country’s adjustment program went off track, and reforms that were
intended to be supported by a World Bank adjustment loan as well as the PBG financing were not
achieved. In Colombia, when the PBG was issued, the government had been implementing a broad
reform program supported by a World Bank Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. The World Bank’s
self-evaluation of the project noted that in this context, hybrid policy loan/guarantee operations might
provide more policy leverage and better sequencing than standalone policy guarantee operations. The
World Bank’s decision to extend repayment terms on the called PBG in Argentina effectively ended
its ability to use rolling, reinstatable PCGs. [[AQ: Do you mean PBG or is this a new abbreviation
                                              27                                  APPENDIX B


Report (PPAR) seem to have been prepared for this very complex and large operation which
was large to fill the financing gap in the International Monetary Fund program defending
Argentina’s peg to the dollar (through its currency board). For Colombia PBG ($230.3
million), there is an ICR Review13 which rates the development outcome as Moderately
Satisfactory and is critical of the guarantee operation, arguing that “international capital
market inefficiencies were not in Colombia’s favor despite the PBG (mainly because of the
collateral damage from the Argentine guarantee debacle which resulted immediate
downgrading of Colombia’s bonds (backed by the World Bank guarantee, see fn. 6). The
PPAR for the Colombia FSAL rates the overall operation (FSAL) as Satisfactory but does
not evaluated the PBG portion of the financing operation.14 ICRs were conducted for the
Serbia PBG operation, the two Macedonia operations, and the operation for Montenegro (the
Albanian PBG is too recent to have been reviewed).

Table B.1. World Bank Policy Based Guarantee, 1975 - 2015

 Project title               Country        Project    Commitment      Status as of    Approval
                                              ID          (US$         September         date
                                                        millions)         2015
 Albania Public Finance                                                                March 27,
                              Albania       P149765       226.7          Active
 Policy-Based Guarantee                                                                 2015
 FYR Macedonia Public
                            Macedonia,                                                 January 8,
 Expenditure Policy-                        P133791       201.5          Active
                              FYR                                                        2013
 Based Guarantee



that needs to be introduced?]]The Rolling Reinstatable Guarantee (RRG) mechanism for PCGs was
introduced on a pilot basis in 1999, and three PCGs [[AQ: PBG or a different instrument?]] were
issued using it between 1999 and 2001—in Thailand, Argentina, and Colombia. However, according
to IEG’s 2009 evaluation of the World Bank Group instrument, given difficulties in modeling and
valuing the credit enhancement, RRGs were seen as being penalized by the market. This in turn was
seen as affecting the value placed on direct World Bank bond issues, thereby potentially raising the
cost of borrowing for the World Bank. In this context, in 2000 the World Bank adopted a very
cautious approach to future transactions using the RRG structure. Then in 2002, the PBG in Argentina
was called when Argentina failed to service the outstanding bond. Rather than enforce the 60- day
period in which Argentina had to repay the World Bank for the guarantee to roll over, the World
Bank rescheduled the loan, causing the guarantee to lapse. The market immediately downgraded the
issue and also downgraded the RRGs in Thailand and Colombia.
13
  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review for Colombia FSAL (2003):
http://lnweb90.worldbank.org/oed/oeddoclib.nsf/DocUNIDViewForJavaSearch/8525682E006860378
5256C54006BA2D0?OpenDocument
14
  The PPAR for the FSAL simply mentions that “most of the resources of the FSAL second tranche
were used to fund a PBG in March and May 2001” and then goes on to indicate that “this assessment
does not cover the outcomes (nor Bank and borrower performance) under the PBG, as the PBG has
not yet closed and remains active today." http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org/Data/reports/PPAR-40139-
P006884-Colombia_Financial_SALs.pdf
APPENDIX B                                                     28


 Project title                          Country             Project       Commitment            Status as of           Approval
                                                              ID             (US$               September                date
                                                                           millions)               2015
 Montenegro Financial
                                                                                                                        June 28,
 Sector Policy-Based                  Montenegro           P130157              79.2                Active
                                                                                                                          2012
 Guarantee
 FYR Macedonia Policy-                Macedonia,                                                                      November
                                                           P125837             134.9                Active
 Based Guarantee                      Former YR                                                                        10, 2011
 Private and Financial
                                                                                                                     February 10,
 Sector Policy-Based                      Serbia           P102651             400.0                Active
                                                                                                                        2011
 Guarantee
 Colombia Policy-Based                                                                                                 March 8,
                                       Colombia            P072723             220.3                Closed
 Guarantee                                                                                                              2001
 Argentina Policy-Based                                                                                               September
                                       Argentina           P068845             250.0                Closed
 Guarantee Operation                                                                                                   16, 1999
 Small-Scale Enterprise                                                                                               August 21,
                                     Côte d’Ivoire         P001113               5.6                Closed
 Project                                                                                                                1975
Source: World Bank (http://www.worldbank.org/projects/search?lang=en&searchTerm=Policy-based%20guarantee).
Note: For active and closed projects, the commitment amount at Board approval is shown in US dollars. These figures do not reflect any
cancellations.
                                              29


Appendix C. List of Persons Met
Government
Mr. H.E. Dime Spasov, Minister, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
Ms. Jasmina Ivanova, CCT project director, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
Ms. Elizabeta Kunovska, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
Ms. Irena Risteska, Head of Pension Department, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
Ms. Verica Prokovic, Head of Budget Department, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Violeta Stojanovska, State Advisor, Financial Systems, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Natasa Stojmanovska, Financial Systems, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Dejan Nikolovski, Public Debt Department, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Lence Tagasovska, Financial Systems, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Suzana Peneva, State Advisor, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Hristina Trajkovska, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Ana Todorovska, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Andrea Lazarevska, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Vesna Svetanova, Macro Department, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Jordan Trajkovski, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Tanja Tripunova, Assistant Head, Budget Department
Mr. Toshe Panovski, Head of Unit, Budget and Budget Policy
Ms. Biljana Trajkovska, former Chief of Cabinet Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Education & Science
Mr. Jovan Grpovski, Minister’s advisor & former Director Health Insurance Fund, Ministry
of Health

National Bank
Mr. Dimitar Bogoev, Governor, National Bank of the Republic of FYR Macedonia
Ms. Milica Arnaudova, Director, Sector for Supervision, Banking Regulation and Financial
Stability

Health Insurance Fund
Ms. Tatjana Lukanovska, Health Insurance Fund
Mr. Vladimir Dimkovski, Health Insurance Fund

International Monetary Fund
Mr. Patrick Gitton, Resident Representative, IMF

World Bank Group
Ms. Jane Armitage, former Country Director, Western Balkans
Ms. Marina Wess, lead economist, Western Balkans
Mr. Evgenij Najdov, Senior Economist, TTL
Mr. Goran Tinjic, Senior Operations Officer
Mr. Gianfranco Bertozzi, Lead financial specialist, TRE
Ms. Satu Kahkonen, former Sector Manager, PREM
Ms. Aurora Ferrari, former Sector Manager, FPD
Mr. Bojana Naceva, TTL for the CCT and focal point for social protection
                       30


Appendix D. FYR Macedonia Macroeconomic
Framework, 2011-2020
                       31


Appendix E. Borrower Comments
APPENDIX E   32
33   APPENDIX E
APPENDIX E   34
