                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR00002460



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (TF-92181)

                                            ON A

                                          GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 6.23 MILLION


                                          TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                           FOR A

                      SAFE MOTHERHOOD VOUCHER PROGRAM



                                      January 21, 2015




Health, Nutrition and Population Global Practice
Middle East and North Africa
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective December 8, 2014)

                                  Currency Unit: 1 USD = 214.9 YER

                                FISCAL YEAR: January 1 – December 31

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


    AMR         Annual Monitoring Report                    MTR            Mid-Term Review
    BTOR        Back-to-Office-Report                       MS             Moderately Satisfactory
    CAS         Country Assistance Strategy                 MU             Moderately Unsatisfactory
    EFA         External Financial Auditor                  NGO            Non-governmental Organization
    FM          Financial Management                        OBA            Output-Based Aid
    GA          Grant Agreement                             OM             Operations Manual
    GPOBA       Global Partnership for Output-              PAD            Project Appraisal Document
                Based Aid
                                                            PDO            Project Development Objectives
    GPOBA SAR   GPOBA Semi-Annual Report
                                                            POE            Panel of Experts
    ID          Identity Card
                                                            S              Satisfactory
    IFC         International Finance Corporation
                                                            SD             Service Delivery
    IVE         Independent Verification Expert
                                                            SOUL           SOUL for Development
    MDG         Millennium Development Goal
                                                            SGH            Saudi German Hospital
    MNVP        Maternal and Newborn Voucher
    Project                                                 SMP            Safe Motherhood Voucher
                                                                           Program
    M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
                                                            TTL            Task Team Leader
    MTI         Monitoring and Tracking
                Indicators                                  USTH           University for Science and
                                                                           Technology Hospital (Al
                                                                           Marwarid)




                   Senior Global Practice Director:         Timothy Grant Evans
                          Acting Country Director:          Poonam Gupta
                                      Practice Manager:     Enis Barış
                                 Project Team Leader:       Ali Ahmed Al-Mudhwahi
                                      ICR Team Leader:      Ali Ahmed Al-Mudhwahi
                                   



                                                      ii 
                                                    REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                               Safe Motherhood Voucher Program

                                                                    CONTENTS


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................................. 1
       1.1 Context at Appraisal ..................................................................................................................... 1
       1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators..................................... 3
       1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
       reasons/justification ............................................................................................................................ 3
       1.4 Main Beneficiaries ........................................................................................................................ 3
       1.5 Original Project Components ...................................................................................................... 4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................................. 5
       2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry .................................................................... 5
       2.2 Implementation ............................................................................................................................. 7
       2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization .................................... 10
       2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance....................................................................................... 13
       2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase..................................................................................... 14
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................................ 15
       3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ............................................................. 15
       3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives .................................................................... 18
       3.3 Efficiency ..................................................................................................................................... 20
       3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating .................................................................................. 20
       3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts .............................................................. 20
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ....................................................................................... 21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................................... 21
       5.1 Bank Performance ...................................................................................................................... 21
       5.2 Borrower Performance ............................................................................................................... 24
6. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................................................... 26




                                                                             iii 
                                         ICR DATA SHEET


                                   REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                              Safe Motherhood Voucher Program

                                                                                   Report No.: ICR2460
A. Basic Information
                                                                               Yemen Safe Motherhood
Country:                    Yemen, Republic of       Project Name:
                                                                               Voucher Program
Project ID:                 P104946                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92181
ICR Date:                   12/09/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                               - SOUL for Development
                                                                               - Saudi Yemeni Health
                                                                               Care Company
Lending Instrument:         SIL                      Grantee:
                                                                               - Al Mawarid Company for
                                                                               Educational and Health
                                                                               Services
Original Total Commitment: USD 6.23M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 3.56M
Revised Amount:             USD 3.56M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 SOUL for Development
 Saudi Yemeni Health Care Company
 Al Mawarid Company for Educational and Health Services
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: GPOBA

B. Key Dates
                                                                                      Revised / Actual
      Process             Date                 Process            Original Date
                                                                                          Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/18/2007        Effectiveness:                                   09/08/2008
                                                                                          03/22/2011
Appraisal:             06/20/2007        Restructuring(s):
                                                                                          05/31/2012
Approval:              06/02/2008        Mid-term Review:            09/25/2010           09/25/2010
                                         Closing:                    06/30/2012           02/28/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                            Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                         High



                                                    iv 
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                  Ratings
                          Moderately
Quality at Entry:                                 Government:             Not Applicable
                          Unsatisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision:   Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                          Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                             QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                          Rating
      Performance                                       any)
Potential Problem Project at
                             No                 Quality at Entry (QEA): None
any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                     Quality of Supervision
                            Yes                                           None
(Yes/No):                                       (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                        Original                   Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                100                        100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other human development                                      25                        25
Population and reproductive health                           50                        50
Social safety nets                                           25                        25

E. Bank Staff
                     Positions                           At ICR                  At Approval
Vice President:                                 Gerard A. Byam            Daniela Gressani
Country Director:                               Poonam Gupta              Emmanuel Mbi
Practice Manager/Manager:                       Enis Barış                Akiko Maeda
                                                                          Alaa Mahmoud Hamed
Project Team Leader:                            Ali Ahmed Al-Mudhwahi
                                                                          Abdel-Hamid
ICR Team Leader:                                Ali Ahmed Al-Mudhwahi
ICR Primary Author:                             Preeti Kudesia


                                               v 
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objectives of the project are to: (a) provide quality maternal care to about 40,000 eligible
women in targeted districts in Sana'a and (b) design and implement a model of maternal care which
demonstrates how Yemeni public policy on maternal and child care can be effectively integrated
with private health provision.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

First revision of March 22, 2011: To: (a) provide quality maternal care to about 30,000 eligible
women in targeted districts in Sana'a and (b) design and implement a model of maternal care which
demonstrates how Yemeni public policy on maternal and child care can be effectively integrated
with private health provision.

Second revision of May 31, 2012: To: (i) provide quality maternal care to (15,000) eligible women
in the targeted districts in Sana’a; and (ii) design and implement a model of maternal care which
demonstrates how Yemeni public policy on maternal and child care can be effectively integrated
with private health provision.


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                  Original              Formally
                                              Actual                     Actual    Formally
                                  Target                 Revised                             Actual Value
                                            Achievement               achievement Revised
                    Baseline      Values                 Target                              Achieved at
    Indicator                                 (before                    (before    Target
                     Value         (from                 Values                              Completion
                                               target                     target    Values
                                 approval                (March                                  ion
                                             revision)                  revision) (May 2012)
                                documents)                2011)
Indicator 1 :     Number of safe deliveries
Value
(Quantitative or 0.00         40,000       3,175        30,000        5,273        15,000     16,141
qualitative)
Date achieved                 06/30/2008 02/28/2011 03/22/2011 04/30/2012 05/31/2012 02/28/2014
Comments
                  The revised target following two project restructurings was achieved (108%), with a
(incl. %
                 resultant weighted average of Moderately Satisfactory achievement (Annex 3 I).
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

None: As described in the ICR, this project was designed as a GPOBA project did not have a Results
Framework in the designated format as required by the Bank. Therefore intermediate indicators were not
defined. Performance indicators, to be measured based on targets on a quarterly basis, were defined for the
grant recipients to measure service delivery and therefore reimbursements to them. These are described in
Annex 3 (D&E).




                                                    vi 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                                     Actual
                  Date ISR
    No.                                                        DO                              IP                Disbursements
                  Archived
                                                                                                                 (USD millions)
      1          05/05/2010                    Moderately Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory               0.15
      2          01/11/2011                   Moderately Unsatisfactory             Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.38
      3          03/12/2011                   Moderately Unsatisfactory             Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.50
      4          07/05/2011                   Moderately Unsatisfactory             Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.57
      5          11/14/2011                   Moderately Unsatisfactory             Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.98
      6          07/10/2012                    Moderately Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory               1.67
      7          12/18/2012                         Satisfactory                          Satisfactory                     2.01
      8          09/23/2013                         Satisfactory                          Satisfactory                     2.621


H. Restructuring (if any)

                                                     ISR Ratings at        Amount
               Board
                                                     Restructuring       Disbursed at
Restructuring Approved                                                                  Reason for Restructuring & Key Changes
                                                                         Restructuring
   Date(s)      PDO                                                                                         Made
                                                       DO           IP      in USD
               Change
                                                                           millions
                                                                                        A revised price list for the defined safe
                                                                                       motherhood services estimated that the
                                                                                       allocated grant of US$5,403,960 for service
                                                                                       provision would be able to cover the
     03/22/2011                                        MU       MU              0.57
                                                                                       subsidies for only about 30,000 beneficiaries;
                                                                                       therefore the restructuring reduced the
                                                                                       number of target beneficiaries from 40,000 to
                                                                                       30,000 to reflect the revised cost structure.
                                                                                       Withdrawal of Saudi General Hospital
                                                                                       (SGH), the second service provider, and
                                                                                       revised estimations of the time that would be
                                                                                       required to reach the revised end-target. The
                                                                                       restructuring changes were: (i) amendment of
                                                                                       the revised PDO with an amended key
                                                                                       project indicator of 15,000 beneficiaries
     05/31/2012                                        MU       MU              1.66
                                                                                       based on a single service provider; (ii)
                                                                                       extension of the project closing date from
                                                                                       June 30, 2012 to February 28, 2014 to meet
                                                                                       the revised target of 15,000; (iii) reallocation
                                                                                       of Grant proceeds; and (iv) a cancellation of
                                                                                       US$2,319, 910 from the unused grant funds
                                                                                       because of withdrawal of SGH.


                                                            
1
     By the end of the grace period (June 30, 2014), the total disbursement amounted to USD 3,555,224.93. 
 


                                                                             vii 
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background
1.      The Republic of Yemen was formed in 1990 by the unification of North and South Yemen.
The country has a diverse geographical topography, ranging from high mountainous regions to
coastal terrains, deserts and islands. At project appraisal, Yemen’s population of 20.9 million was
predominantly rural2 (73%), with about 42% of people living in poverty3 with limited access to
basic health services, and ranked 151st out of 177 countries on the 2005 United National
Development Programme Human Development Index. 4 Yemen also had one of the highest
maternal mortality ratios at 570/100,000 live births (2000 estimates) with only 27% of births
attended by skilled birth attendants (2003) as well as a high fertility rate (average of seven children
per woman). Life expectancy increased from 41.6 years in 1970 to 62 in 2006, with that for women
mirroring the overall trend. While there was a significant increase in enrollment rate in basic
education (3 million in 1996 to 4.1 million in 2004), female literacy rates remained low at 28.5
percent in 2002.

2.      Many persisting challenges have affected the country’s development, despite achievements
over the last three decades. Those that are most prominent and population-related are: (i) high
maternal, infant, and child mortality; (ii) high prevalence of malnutrition particularly for children
under five years; and (iii) rapid population growth. Despite these challenges, Yemen is on track
towards achieving the 4th Millennium Development Goal (MDG) (reduce child mortality) by 2015
and already achieved the 5th (improve maternal health).

3.      Yemen, at project preparation and today, has a fragmented healthcare system with several
different public and private providers. The number of healthcare providers in Yemen (either public
or private) providing quality service is very limited. The health facilities often lack adequate
equipment and supplies, and this is compounded by a scarcity of physicians and other medical
professionals, including the poor quality and reduced standards of medical training in the country.
Amongst those Yemenis that can afford to, many travel abroad for private treatment.

4.      In the poorest communities in Yemen, poor access to quality services, lack of confidence
in the healthcare providers and lack of affordability of care are contributing factors to the high
maternal mortality ratio and key barriers to safe maternal care and services. There are also certain
cultural specificities in their health seeking behavior – pregnancy not being viewed as requiring
any medical attention, the choice to seek medical care often being made by the husband or mother-
in-law, the lack of female doctors, and a distrust of the providers. As a result, amongst poorer
communities it is not uncommon to find women not seeking any healthcare during pregnancy and
opting for delivering at home.



                                                            
2 And continues with the same urban-rural distribution today, but poverty has increased to 54.5%
3 1998 Household Survey estimate
4 World Bank, WHO sources  




                                                               1 
Rationale for Bank Assistance and Link to Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
5.      The Bank Group’s ongoing engagement in the Middle East Region and Yemen provided it
with a comparative advantage to support an innovative methodology to address the challenge of
high maternal mortality in the country. The Global Partnership for Output-Based Aid (GPOBA)
had the ability to provide grant financing to pilot an innovative approach to address this challenge.
This grant also helped to contribute towards addressing the maternal MDG which was a stated
priority of the country; and this was well aligned with the World Bank’s 2006-09 CAS for Yemen:
“The overall objective of the Bank Group’s program proposed in this CAS is to facilitate Yemen’s
further progress towards the MDGs”. Moreover, under the third overarching goal related to
improving living conditions and social indicators, the CAS stated the following: “Significant
improvements have been achieved over the last years, in large part thanks to a dramatic expansion
of health facilities, increased immunization coverage, and improved control of major diseases
(malaria, TB). The Development Plan for Poverty Reduction aims to build on this foundation to
accelerate progress towards the MDGs through a renewed focus on the modalities of service
delivery”.

Yemen Safe Motherhood Voucher Program (SMP)
6.      The project was a performance/output-based grant financed by the International Finance
Corporation (IFC), managed by GPOBA and supervised by the Bank. The IFC, GPOBA, and the
Bank established one of the early partnerships at that time. Senior management was interested in
monitoring this collaboration and learning lessons on how these organizations worked together.
There were common objectives that brought these organizations together. IFC was interested in
exploring and promoting a role for the private sector in health services provision; GPOBA was
interested in expanding its subsidy program to areas beyond infrastructure, and the health sector
was selected; and the Bank was looking for an innovative model for service delivery of maternal
health services. These organizations agreed that this project would be a good experiment that
would allow them to test and develop a model for service delivery for maternal health. Each
organization, however, at that time had different and separate guidelines to manage the design and
implementation of their operations.5 As part of the operating arrangements, the Bank, in addition
to being responsible for project supervision, was also the Fiduciary Management Agency for the
project and responsible for the recruitment and management of an Independent Verification Expert
(IVE) and an External Financial Auditor (EFA). The Project Grant Agreement (GA) was signed
on June 11, 2008 and became effective on September 9, 2008 after finalization of the project's
Operations Manual (OM). After an extension of the original closing date of June 30, 2012, the
project closed on February 28, 2014. The grant recipients were SOUL for the Development
(SOUL), a national non-governmental organization (NGO), and two private service providers, the
Saudi German Hospital (SGH) and the University for Science and Technology Hospital /Al
Marwarid (USTH).6 The project aimed to provide a “Mother-Baby package” of essential services
as defined by the World Health Organization7 to eligible poor women (based on income criteria of
the household and residing in nine selected districts of Sana’a City, Yemen. The GPOBA grant
subsidy was designed to be provided for a targeted number of safe child births by the two service
providers.
                                                            
5   These differences did create certain challenges which are described later in the ICR.
6
   The grant was eligible only to IFC clients and this criterion had to be considered while selecting the service providers.
7
   Consists of antenatal care, attended childbirth, postnatal care, complicated care services and family planning services. 


                                                                   2 
1.2           Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      To: (a) provide quality maternal care to about 40,000 eligible women in targeted districts
in Sana'a; and (b) design and implement a model of maternal care which demonstrates how Yemeni
public policy on maternal and child care can be effectively integrated with private health provision
(GA and OM).

8.      The OM) further elaborates the primary objective of the project as expanding access to safe
and attended childbirth to the target population to enable the GPOBA subsidy funding to result in
about 40,000 safe child deliveries by two service providers over a four year period. This was the
key project indicator.8

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

9.            The original PDO and the associated indicator were revised twice during the project.

10.    First revision of March 22, 2011: The revised objectives of the Project: (a) provide quality
maternal care to about 30,000 eligible women in targeted districts in Sana'a; and (b) design and
implement a model of maternal care which demonstrates how Yemeni public policy on maternal
and child care can be effectively integrated with private health provision.
The revised key indicator was about 30,000 safe child deliveries by two service providers over a
four year period.

11.     Second revision of May 31, 2012: The revised objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide
quality maternal care to eligible women in the targeted districts in Sana’a; and (ii) design and
implement a model of maternal care which demonstrates how Yemeni public policy on maternal
and child care can be effectively integrated with private health provision.
The revised key indicator was 15,000 safe child deliveries by service providers over the extended
project period.

12.     The justification and reasons for extension are described as part of the description of
Project Restructuring in Section 1.7 below.

1.4           Main Beneficiaries

13.    The main project beneficiaries were to be pregnant women living in nine selected districts
in Sana’a and fulfilling the following eligibility criteria: (i) maximum gestational age of 22 weeks;


                                                            
8
  The ex-TTL informed the ICR author that since this was a GPOBA project, it did not have a detailed Results Framework
complying with the Bank standard format. In the absence of which, this number (and later the revised numbers) was taken as the
key indicator for the ISRs, and so also for the ICR. 


                                                               3 
(ii) within a reproductive age (15-49 years); (iii) with household daily income less than US$8; and
(iv) with ability to pay the contributory amount of US$15.9

1.5           Original Project Components

14.           The project had the following components as described in the OM:

       1) Project preparation and start-up cost - to SOUL for conducting a baseline study for
          community assessment of the targeted districts in Sana’a, provision and installation of a
          biometric server and eye print/finger print equipment and office furniture and equipment.
       2) Establishment of satellite clinics10– to establish 12 satellite clinics with GPOBA providing
          a 50% subsidy to the service providers. During the first two years of the project, each
          service provider expected to establish two new satellite clinics annually, compared to one
          each in year 3 and 4.
       3) Service Delivery – to subsidize the defined safe motherhood package. Invoices for services
          rendered and the verification of Performance Indicators to trigger reimbursements to
          service providers on an output basis.
       4) Community Outreach Administrative Cost - SOUL was to: (i) conduct community outreach
          for the identification, evaluation and documentation of eligible beneficiaries under the
          Project; (ii) establish, manage and make available a database of such eligible beneficiaries;
          and (iii) provide capacity building to support the implementation of the project and the
          community outreach activity.
       5) Education and awareness campaigns– SOUL to conduct education and public awareness
          campaigns to promote quality maternal care throughout the project in targeted districts in
          Sana’a.

1.6           Revised Components

15.    Project components remained unchanged during the life of the project, though the grant
financing categories were changed at the second project restructuring (described below).

1.7           Other Significant Changes

16.    The project underwent two Level 1 Restructurings, including a project extension, as
described below:

17.      First Restructuring, March 22, 2011: Based on an ongoing discussion and demand from
the two service providers, an assessment was conducted for the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in
September-October 2010, when it was determined that the unit cost per beneficiary needed to be

                                                            
9
  This copayment by the beneficiary was a GPOBA design feature, as communicated by the ex-TTL to the ICR Author. 
10
   The location of satellites clinics used the following selection criteria in the priority of order: (i) population of districts; (ii)
availability of other health facilities per population density; (iii) status of socio economic standards; and (iv) accessibility to the
service providers.
 


                                                                    4 
increased (otherwise risking the complete withdrawal of both service providers from the project).
A revised price list for the defined safe motherhood services was established for the project (Annex
3 A). With this new price list, it was estimated that the allocated grant of US$5,403,960 for service
provision would be able to cover the subsidies for only about 30,000 beneficiaries of safe deliveries
(referred to as ‘beneficiaries’ henceforth). This would render the original PDO unachievable, and
therefore the restructuring reduced the number of target beneficiaries from 40,000 to 30,000 to
reflect the revised cost structure. This change, reflected in the revised PDO was the only element
of the restructuring. The Project was rated Unsatisfactory at that time.

18.      Second Restructuring, May 31, 2012: Withdrawal of SGH, the second service provider,
(as conveyed to the Bank) and revised estimations of the time that would be required to reach the
revised end-target, made this restructuring necessary. As a result the project was restructured as
follows: (i) an amendment of the revised PDO with an amended key project indicator of 15,000
beneficiaries based on a single service provider; (ii) an extension of the project closing date from
June 30, 2012 to February 28, 2014 to meet the revised target of 15,000; (iii) reallocation of Grant
proceeds;11 and (iv) a cancellation of US$2,319, 910 originally earmarked for SGH. The Project
was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory at that time.

19.       At the time of the second restructuring, the GPOBA Panel of Experts (POE) raised certain
queries concerning: replication of part (b) of the PDO, sustainability of financing after project
closing particularly if there were political changes, and why 20 months was required to enroll
5,000 more women. The Task Team Leader (TTL) responded by indicating that replication in
rural areas by the private sector was more likely than in urban areas, social services were unlikely
to be impacted irrespective of which political party was in power, and that the 5,000 women would
be enrolled in the first 14 months and the remainder time would be needed to ensure that they got
the safe delivery services. The POE endorsed the restructuring.

20.       A letter dated May 31, 2012, which confirmed the second amendment to the GA, referred
to the partial cancelation of funds and the revised PDO with no reference to the revised target of
15,000 beneficiaries and the project extension and discontinuation of services of SGH, though
these are all mentioned in the Restructuring Paper and were considered formalized by all
concerned. The numbers of beneficiaries were reflected in the revised OM.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

21.     Project Preparation: GPOBA has the mandate to design and fund pro-poor output-based
subsidies in all sectors including health. The project was prepared following an assessment by IFC
of the Yemeni private health sector, and a Concept Note from the three then potential grant
recipients was provided in early 2007. This was prepared as the first performance/output-based
contracting program with local private health providers targeting poor communities in Yemen. It
was also the first GPOBA Window 3 (subsidy-based) project in Yemen.

                                                            
11
  To reflect a new Disbursement Category F to reflect USTH as the sole service provider and close Category E to reflect the
withdrawal of SGH. 


                                                               5 
22.     Project Design: The project design was built on the fact that affordable quality maternal
services were not easily available through the public health system to poor women in Yemen
resulting in high rates of maternal mortality, and was therefore seeking to explore contracting with
the local private sector to provide the same. It employed the output-based-aid (OBA) approach to
innovatively address this issue. Since this was being done for the first time in the country, the
project interventions were restricted to selected districts in Sana’a City (urban) while targeting
women from poor households (monthly income less than US$8). Services were designed to be
provided by two identified service providers (through an appraisal done by IFC, and both were
IFC clients), while the community outreach including health education and appropriate targeting
was assigned to a reputed NGO in Sana’a. Prerequisites that each organization had to fulfill at that
time resulted in certain design weaknesses. IFC could only provide this grant to its’ clients thus
limiting competition with non-IFC clients, taking into consideration that GPOBA required a
contribution by each beneficiary to the subsidy and did not have provisions for pre-financing
providers.

23.     Quality at Entry: GPOBA/IFC and the Bank fiduciary team had discussions with the three
identified grant recipients. According to feedback received from SOUL during the ICR
preparation, interaction with the Government was limited, with its reaction being reserved
regarding external financing being garnered towards the private sector considering that the benefits
would be accrued by poor women and households. A detailed OM was prepared by the Grant
recipients and agreed with the Bank team by August 2008 (two months after signing of the GA)
resulting in project effectiveness on September 9, 2008. However, the rules of engagement at that
time between the different organizations were not clear. The Bank team followed the guidelines
available at that time and adjusted its compliance to updated guidelines as they evolved during the
operation. For example, except for the GPOBA Commitment Paper/Document 12 no project
preparation documents (Project Appraisal Document (PAD), technical reports, and feasibility
studies) were required to be prepared. Critical risks and mitigation measures were identified in the
GPOBA document, e.g.: (i) the affordability and willingness to pay by customer (mitigation
measure - minimum user fees and inclusion of nutritional component); (ii) inadequate control
systems within the NGO (mitigation measure - external financial and organizational audit; and (iii)
the potential for collusive behavior of patients and service providers (mitigation measure - service
providers required to keep standardized medical records and provide them upon request for
auditing. Random audits of claims’ database to be done in order to identify claiming patterns that
might suggest collusive behavior). Despite this, some of the other identified risks – (i) early
reluctance of population to accept services; and (ii) the possible lack of quality staff/capacity
within service providers were underestimated and adversely affected implementation, particularly
during the first few years. The most significant areas that seem to have been underestimated were
the real understanding of/by the private providers to the project and the in-depth involvement and
commitment of the government.




                                                            
12 It was communicated to the ICR author that for a GPOBA stand-alone project, GPOBA requires a Commitment Paper. It is up

to the Bank team to decide if a PAD is needed.


                                                               6 
2.2 Implementation

24.    There was no delay in project effectiveness, and even prior to that, in August 2008 the
Bank team visited Yemen to prepare for effectiveness and finalize the terms of reference for the
competitive selection of the IVE and EFA who were appointed in June 2009. However, the project
faced implementation challenges almost from the very beginning. These, including the mitigation
measures undertaken, are described below:

25.     Capacity/Ability/Commitment of the service providers to reach the target of 40,000
beneficiaries: Despite an appraisal by IFC of the capacity of the private health sector in Yemen
(Annex 3 A), the selection of SGH and USTH as the service providers for the project. There were
issues with their capacity that were identified as a risk as early as of August 2008, including that
this may negatively impact the achievement of the target before the closing date of the project. In
August 2009, the unsatisfactory performance of SGH was highlighted by the TTL, including the
lack of business standards and practices and poor understanding of the design and implementation
of the project. These continued to be highlighted as risks, as late as September 2010 (MTR). The
role and performance of the grant recipients varied during the project phases. SGH was the main
leader for project design and led all the technical discussions and later was the first to establish its
clinic, while USTH was initially hesitant to partner in the project. Although SGH and USTH had
technical and fiduciary management capacity at the hospital level, it was difficult to assess their
capacity at a clinic level, given there was no prior experience. The business standards of
contracting health services in Yemen were based on passive reimbursement and not on active
purchasing. They did not have prior experience in managing Bank operations with its fiduciary
management requirements and a learning curve was needed to reach an acceptable level of
compliance to Bank guidelines. This led to delays in disbursement which further affected the cash
flow of these organizations. In particular, SGH suffered more from the financial global crisis than
USTH, being an international organization with more limitations from its headquarters on its cash
flow. Although SGH tried to address their problems during the first half of the project by changing
the CEO of the hospital and injecting some cash into the system its Board decided to freeze their
participation in the project. On the other hand, USTH, which is backed by a local company and
substantial charity funds, was able to meet with the set targets.

26.     USTH also reported suffering from financial losses in mid-2010. According to a note
provided by the Bank TTL to GPOBA, these losses resulted from the lack of experience in
implementing the innovative outputs-based disbursement service delivery model at the satellite
clinics since its experience was mostly related with the service delivery at the hospital level. These
losses forced USTH to reconsider the degree of their participation in the project or to withdraw
completely. In order to continue its participation in the project, USTH requested that a higher
service delivery (SD) package be reconsidered to replace the price of US$135 per beneficiary that
was originally with GPOBA as a subsidy for all cases. It was agreed that this would be reviewed
at MTR. Based on the agreements subsequently reached (described below), USTH decided to
continue participating fully in the Project.

27.     In 2010, SOUL also suffered cash flow problems that limited its ability to pre-finance
activities related to enrollment and health education/awareness as planned due to the fact that: (i)
SOUL’s ability to achieve its targets was dependent on the reputation and performance of the



                                                   7 
service providers as well as the clinical eligibility criteria of beneficiaries; and (ii) lack of funds
that would allow SOUL to pre-finance output-based disbursements. 13 These problems were
addressed by amending the OM to reflect SOUL to use: (i) the advance of the Designated Amount
to fund output-based disbursements; (ii) the performance bands for performance-based indicators
to apply without the need for a mandatory indicator; and (iii) expanding the eligibility criteria to
include all poor pregnant women.

28.     Difficulties in enrollment and participation: In April 2009, the Bank team highlighted
that the initial enrollment rate was low – about 20% of the target. In a Back-to-Office-Report
(BTOR) in May 2009, the TTL ascribed the low enrolment rates to two groups of factors:

(i)           Cultural and Marketing- refusal of husbands to enroll their wives in the project.
              Discussions with SOUL who was responsible for enrolment indicated that the main reason
              for the reluctance to enroll at the start of the project was suspicion and mistrust about the
              project and its motives - doubts and fears among the community about these free services
              that were to be offered in private clinics and hospitals. A private collaboration of this nature
              was being introduced for the first time in Sana’a resulting in skepticism; however, later
              when women who received services through the project spread the word to their
              community, the enrollment substantially improved. The latter was primarily because of
              the focused marketing strategy that was later developed and implemented by SOUL, which
              included a short film explaining the objectives broadcasted in a couple of Yemeni TV
              channels, as well as posters and brochures distributed in public places in the target areas;
              and

(ii)          Provider Performance and Reputation – especially related to SGH. It was found that the
              service providers were trying very early in the process to: (a) transfer the risk of the cost
              of complicated cases to the beneficiaries of the project or to the Bank; and (b) decrease
              their operating cost. While the Bank team repeatedly communicated that the cost of the SD
              package would be revised during the project MTR, the providers did not demonstrate
              confidence, and this adversely affected the identification and enrollment of beneficiaries.
              SGH was also facing additional problems such as irregularity of availability of a provider
              or unavailability of a female provider as promoted at the outpatient clinic; and some alleged
              instances of malpractice resulting in rumors that discouraged beneficiaries from
              participating in the project. In addition, SGH was responsible for preparing the training
              content to be used to identify and enroll beneficiaries. SGH conducted this training and
              provided a number of wrong messages in the training package that focused on informing
              the beneficiaries that they would be charged for complicated deliveries and Cesarean
              Sections including diagnostics and medications including those given during the antenatal
              care period. According to project documentation, these messages discouraged
              participation.

29.    In mid-2009, several actions were agreed upon to increase enrollment as follows:
(i) modify the eligibility criteria to enroll eligible pregnant women up to 20 weeks (first five
months) of pregnancy instead of 12 weeks (first three months), and to include all households that

                                                            
13
      GPOBA did not allow pre-financing to the other two grant recipients, and this was quoted as a constraint by the TTL.


                                                                  8 
have a daily income of less than US$8 as long as they can pay their contribution of US$15 per
beneficiary; (ii) agree on a number of marketing techniques that would increase enrollment rates;
(iii) develop criteria for selection of sites for establishment of satellite clinics within selected
districts that ensure accessibility of providers to clinics; (iv) revise the current schedule for
establishment of satellite clinics to avoid establishing more than one clinic in the same district
within a short period of time to allow for accumulation of adequate demand; and (v) define the
date of signature of a contract for rent of a clinic by the providers as the cut-off point to trigger
identification and enrollment of beneficiaries in that district's clinic to ensure the timeliness of
enrollment of beneficiaries with the establishment of clinics.

30.     Dropouts after enrollment and issue of project criteria restricting eligibility of
complicated cases – In August 2009, SOUL reported a dropout rate of almost 70%. While this
rate decreased substantially over the life of the project (25%), in part because of the targeted and
effective communication strategies adopted by SOUL, one serious challenge persisted. While this
has not been clearly documented by the Bank team, reports and recommendations provided by
SOUL clearly indicate that since the project, by design, was restricted to only cover 15% of
complicated cases, this imposed a challenge for health providers to accept all complicated cases
(the 15% cap was reiterated when the pricing issue was addressed).

Cost of Service Delivery Package and complicated cases
31.     The cost of complicated cases was a subject of extensive discussion during the finalization
of the OM (before project effectiveness) and subsequently. The Bank team reiterated repeatedly
to the service providers that these services were part of the package and that the risk was mitigated
by capping the number of cesarean section cases to not exceed 15 percent of all cases. It had also
been agreed that the cost of the package would be reviewed at project MTR. As part of the MTR
assessments, a revised price list was developed based on: (i) the study of the actual costs of the
two Service Providers (USTH and SGH); and (ii) the market prices of equivalent Service Providers
to ensure that these prices were competitive, economical, and developed in a transparent manner.
The revised SD package amended the payment mechanism to (i) pay separately for normal
delivery, complicated delivery, cesarean section; (ii) add a package for neonatal care (Annex 3 A).
This was agreed, and ensured the continuation of participation of the service providers
immediately after the MTR.

Crisis Period in Yemen in 2011
32.     The popular uprising and political turmoil in February 2011 in Yemen resulted in
interrupting the provision of health services including SMP operating clinics. The situation
deteriorated with violence starting in March, escalating in June-July, and continued till close to
end of the calendar year. The Bank officially suspended disbursements to all Yemen projects on
July 28, 2011. On November 11, 2011 GPOBA wrote to the Bank’s Country Director for Yemen,
requesting a special exemption from this suspension reasoning that the project was a performance-
based financing not being implemented by the government, and that it was doing well despite the
conflict. However this was not agreed upon, and the suspension of disbursements for all projects
was lifted only in January 2012. USTH had established 6 clinics before the uprising, but after the
suspension, only one clinic operated first, and later two more were added.



                                                 9 
33.     While SOUL and USTH tried to continue providing services during the crisis period, they
described a number of challenges that they faced: (i) low enrollment and utilization rates due to
the security situation; (ii) continuous disruption of electricity; (iii) high prices of fuel or its
shortage; (iv) the increase in prices of medical supplies and drugs; (v) the attacks on the satellite
clinics and ambulances; (vi) difficulty to communicate with the Bank team; (vii) the disruption of
cash flow due to the suspension of disbursements by the Bank; and (viii) difficulties in conducting
verification.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design:
34.    Since this was a GPOBA project, it did not have a designed Results Framework as per the
Bank’s requirements.

35.     The M&E design of the project was built on the performance/output based premise of the
project, and therefore, the linked subsidy reimbursement measures/conditions are also described
below:

36.    Performance Indicators:

(i)    For Service Providers: A set of seven performance indicators (which included measures of
       clinical practice, patient volume, client satisfaction, status of hospital equipment and waste
       management) (Annex 3B) was designed. The service providers would be reimbursed on a
       quarterly basis, proportionate to the care provided to the eligible beneficiaries and based
       on the performance band against the number of targets achieved (Annex 3 D), with a caveat
       that the targets for three indicators (% births by skilled attendants, % of women completing
       four antenatal visits, and % of women completing one postnatal visit) had to be met for any
       subsidy to be paid (up to the maximum original subsidy of US$135 which was later
       enhanced). This would be done by the IVE verifying the quarterly hospital records and
       invoices from grant recipients and providing the Bank Team with quarterly Invoice
       Verification Reports. The OM stated that these performance indicators and threshold
       targets may be modified based on revised Government indicators following the first year
       of operations, however there is no evidence of such discussions or review during the life
       of the project.

(ii)   For SOUL: A set of five performance indicators and performance bands was also designed
       to measure the performance of SOUL (Annex 3E). A portion of SOUL’s project start up
       and fixed costs was to be paid upfront by GPOBA. The balance of reimbursement would
       be based on verification of delivery of services (number of educational/promotional
       activities, areas of coverage, and number of new pregnant women added to the program
       during the quarter) by IVE.

37.     Monitoring and Tracking Indicators- Additionally, in an effort to assess and improve upon
the effectiveness of its Grants, GPOBA had an interest in tracking additional project indicators
that were not triggers for disbursements. Therefore, the project also incorporated a series of


                                                 10 
Monitoring and Tracking Indicators (MTI) to measure the overall impact that the new services had
on target communities. The Bank TTL was to be responsible for reporting MTI to GPOBA semi-
annually, based on information provided by the IVE and the three grant recipients. These
indicators included outputs indicators for SOUL, service providers, static data and project funding
sources (Annexes 3 D-G).

38.    Annual Monitoring Reports (AMR) - The service providers were to provide to the Bank the
AMRs specifying the social, environmental and developmental impact of service provision as
described in Annex F of the OM. This required a detailed reporting including all aspects of medical
and non-medical waste management (discussed further in the Safeguards Compliance Section
below).

39.     Project Completion Report - The grant recipients were to furnish the Bank with a Project
Completion Report including details on service provision to the target community and the overall
use of funds no later than six months after the Closing Date. This report was to include a summary
of Monitoring and Performance Indicators throughout the project’s life. In addition, the grant
recipients were also meant to prepare two additional reports (“Post Project Reports”), each of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank would reasonably request, not later than one month after the
expiry of one year and two years, respectively, from the Closing Date.

40.    Baseline Study – SOUL was to do a project baseline to document the socio-demographic
and services–related factors, and explore the perception of safe motherhood beneficiaries.

41.     Identification and Verification of Beneficiaries – The project design at the concept stage
had described providing vouchers for eligible women, which would then be used as a measure of
verification and subsidy payment. At the Commitment stage, the voucher design was rejected as
it was thought to add an unnecessary level of complexity and costs, and was replaced with eye
scanning and finger printing. This task was assigned to SOUL who were meant to eye scan and
finger print the eligible women at the time of enrolment, and this data was meant to be transferred
to the service providers at their clinics/hospitals to ensure the right identification of beneficiary.

42.    The M&E design was clearly very detailed based on the requirements of the GPOBA. It
was a complex design and its monitoring and validation depended solely on the IVE.

M&E Implementation
43.     Baseline Survey - The baseline study report completed by SOUL was available around Oct
2009. While the OM had stated that the baseline report was to be available before the satellite
clinics started offering care, three clinics were established and 273 cases enrolled and received
services by August 31, 2009. The baseline study used both quantitative and qualitative
methodologies in four urban districts in Sana’a City. The key findings indicated that: (i) healthcare
seeking behavior was far from desired mainly limited to miscarriage/abortion or stillbirth,
childbirth, as well as postnatal care periods; (ii) childbirth care was preferred to be at home assisted
by relatives/friends, while antenatal care was preferred at clinics assisted by skilled health
providers especially females; [however, care was usually sought at public health facilities when a
health problem was perceived to occur] and (iii) the use of family planning was surprisingly high
at 80.5% with preference for oral contraceptive pills and intrauterine devices, reflecting increased


                                                  11 
knowledge and a high demand. Any discussion on the perception of women regarding service
delivery by private providers was missing however, despite being the focus of the project.

44.     Identification and Verification of beneficiaries – While this is not recorded in any of the
available documents, discussion with SOUL revealed that eye scanning was never implemented
because of its cost and complexity. Finger printing was done by SOUL for all enrolled women,
however because of technology constraints; they were never able to transfer the finger prints from
their database (where it also occupied a large space) to that of the service providers. Therefore, all
identification and verification of eligible beneficiaries through the life of the project was done with
a physical photo-identification of the Identity Cards (ID) issued by SOUL at the time of enrolment
and subsequently by the IVE in order to endorse the reimbursement to SOUL.

45.     Role of the IVE - The role of the IVE was absolutely critical for ensuring compliance with
the M&E framework and subsequently the subsidy reimbursement to the grant recipients of the
project. The MTI reports provided by the TTL to GPOBA primarily depended on the reports
provided by the grant recipients and IVE, and, thereby reinforcing the fact that the M&E
compliance depended on the IVE14. The IVE was competitively selected and started providing
services from July 2009 onwards. Till the MTR report (June 2010) Cardno Emerging Markets
USA, Ltd. was the IVE. The frequency of their interactions was less, compared to when the IVE
changed after MTR to Deloitte (who was also the EFA) and who had a Public Health specialist for
technical verification based in Sana’a. In the Final IVE Report (May 2014) covering the entire
project period, provided by Deloitte, there appears to be several inconsistencies in data, including
misinterpretation of definitions; e.g., the number of women enrolled has been interpreted as
meeting the final project target, which was also used by the last project ISR. Disbursement could
not be triggered to the grant recipients without the relevant IVE reports, but the quality of the data
reported by Deloitte can be further investigated.

46.    SOUL and USTH provided the mandated performance reports in a timely manner, and
SOUL also maintains a full database since start of the project. IVE reports are available, and while
thorough, had data and definition inconsistencies, as described above.

47.     A Project Completion Report from SOUL was received on October 14, 2014 and that from
USTH is yet to be received though it is now close to eight months since project closing. The
realism of the requirement (described above) of further reports one and two years after project is
debatable, considering the significant loss of institutional memory at present, eight months after
project closing (except for SOUL).

M&E Utilization
48.     As described above, the M&E framework for the project was primarily designed to be able
to monitor and thereby provide evidence to trigger subsidy reimbursements to the grant recipients,
and not as a Results Framework for the project. It was used for this purpose as well as to assess
the performance of the project. SOUL did maintain a full database for the project and it expressed
appreciation of the capacity building that this had facilitated. As alluded to above, the M&E design
                                                            
14 The TTL informed the ICR Author that the methodology of the IVE was later adopted by the Yemen Country Office for Third

Party Monitoring for all projects in Yemen.


                                                               12 
was complex, and some parts of it not implemented, for example the eye scan and finger printing,
as a result of which only photo ID cards were used for beneficiary verification during the project.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance

49.     The Project was to be implemented (specifically with reference to the establishment and
operation of the clinics by the service providers) according to IFC’s Performance Standards on
Social & Environmental Sustainability (Annex 3B). This compliance was to be monitored and
reported by the IVE. Additionally, each service provider was to provide AMR to the World Bank,
as described in Annex F of the OM. The AMR information had to be collected in a manner
consistent with applicable IFC Environment and Health and Safety Guidelines (Annex 3B). The
AMR included, service providers conducting and thereby reporting, on regular re-training of staff,
internal-auditing and record-keeping on sanitation, infection control and medical waste
management.

50.    While the available IVE reports do state that medical and non-medical waste management
was maintained according to standards (no details provided), this ICR preparation did not have
access to any AMR, and is therefore constrained to provide a comment on the safeguard
compliance.

Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management and Disbursement
51.     The original project design in the GPOBA Commitment Document described a Fiduciary
Agent who would be responsible for financial management for the project. However according to
the final design in the OM, the project did not have a Fiduciary Agent and all such functions were
managed by the Bank team. Since this was a performance-based project all agreed subsidy
reimbursements to the grant recipients were triggered subsequent to a confirmation of achievement
of targets by the Bank TTL to GPOBA. Three types of disbursements took place during the life
of the project: (i) project preparation/design and start-up costs - disbursed as subsidy to SOUL
upon GPOBA grant agreement being signed; (ii) capital costs of satellite clinics - capital cost of
establishing the satellite clinics split on 50:50 basis between GPOBA and the service providers.
Fifty percent of this reimbursed the service providers after commissioning of the said clinics, and
the remaining 50% of GPOBA share paid after the first three months of operations and subject to
a satisfactory quality performance report by the IVE; and (iii) invoiced services - starting from the
first quarter of operations, GPOBA reimbursed costs of service provision based on the
performance indicators described above.

52.     A revised disbursement letter dated January 17, 2013 replaced the original disbursement
letter of June 11, 2008 confirming grant recipients as only two – SOUL and USTH, with the
withdrawal of SGH.



                                                 13 
53.     Based on reporting in the GPOBA Semi-Annual Report (SAR) and the MTR aide memoire,
SOUL and USTH Financial Management (FM) departments were well staffed and each agency
had an automated accounting system, acceptable FM manual, and acceptable auditing
arrangements. All Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) submitted to the Bank were reviewed by the
EFA. Audit reports were satisfactory. Details of clinics’ establishment and subsidies provided are
not available. It is unclear what consideration GPOBA and Bank give to the fact that while the
clinics’ establishment was provided a 50% subsidy, only one of the clinics is operational at present,
and this too is unable to provide subsidies to the poor targeted women.

Procurement

54.    Procurement under the project was done by the following: (i) the Bank – of the IVE and
EFA; (ii) SOUL; and (iii) both service providers. According to the MTR aide memoire, SOUL
had implemented 16 contracts (two for services and 14 for goods); USTH had completed the
purchasing of equipment and furniture for the six satellite clinics; and SGH had implemented two
contracts for goods. Procurement was found to be generally satisfactory, except for that done by
SGH, though details of the latter were not available in the documents reviewed. The financial
management and procurement specialists on the task team were not available for discussion for
preparation of this ICR, therefore clarifications were sought by email, and those responses have
been incorporated in the discussion above.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

55.     In October 2012, at a regional workshop in Amman, the performance-based financing
experience of the project was presented and discussed to design an appropriate RBF model for
service delivery. This workshop was meant to evaluate the project’s performance based contracting
service delivery model compared to the KfW Voucher Project - both models were based on
contracting providers, with performance based payments for providers at the facility level. Both
SOUL and USTH expressed interest in the continuation of the project and there were discussions
with the public and private sectors to explore such possibilities. There were initial discussions
between USTH and the Municipality of Sana’a to possibly replicate the project model in public
clinics with the Solidarity Fund (described in Section 3.5) envisaged by SOUL, but so far this has
not been implemented, and is uncertain given the current country context.

56.    A second workshop in March 2014 that also included the government (Ministries of Health
and Finance) discussed the concept of performance based financing which was adopted by the
Minister of Health during the workshop. The workshop explored ways to link vouchers to
performance-based financing.

57.    A Maternal and Newborn Voucher Project (MNVP) was prepared by the Bank while this
project was under implementation (became effective on August 28, 2014). Yemen Safe
Motherhood Program, having been the first RBF intervention in the health sector, demonstrated
lessons that using vouchers was likely easier than performance-based financing, and that it was
important to work with a national quasi-governmental organization to be the payer for the scheme
contracting public and private (profit and non-profit) health facilities. The MNVP design was also
informed by the lessons learned from the ongoing KfW Reproductive Health Voucher Project,
which was designed in collaboration and learning from the SMP. The MNVP PAD does make a


                                                 14 
reference to align with the satellite clinics established under this project. While the MNVP pilot
has started, the project has plans to subsequently include Sana’a city also, though given the time
lag since SMP closed and this initiative is likely to start, it is unlikely to contribute to the
sustainability of the SMP clinics established.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of the Objectives
58.     Although Yemen has made great strides in reducing the maternal mortality ratio since start
of the project, it remains high at 148 deaths per 100,000 live births15, which translates to some 24
women dying every week due to pregnancy and birth-related complications. At close of the project,
nearly half of its estimated population of 25.5 million was living on less than US$2 per day with
poverty increasing to 54.5% in 2012 and the country ranked 160th out of 186 on the 2012 HDI.
Women, who were already severely disadvantaged, suffered disproportionately as a result of the
2011 crisis, with decreased access to basic and social services and increased levels of gender
violence.

59.     The objective of providing quality maternal care to poor women in Yemen, who otherwise
cannot afford the same, continues to be highly relevant today. Given the poor quality service
provision in the public sector, involvement of the private sector would no doubt substantially
contribute to improved maternal and newborn outcomes in Yemen. However, what may need
further demonstration is the nature of the arrangement that would make it attractive for the private
sector to be involved on a sustained basis. Additionally, in a conflict/fragile country context, to
what extent would the government be willing to, or could render its support to such partnerships
is uncertain. Relevance of the Objectives is rated as Substantial.

Relevance of Design
60.     The design of the project was innovative and new for the Yemeni health sector - a
performance-based approach with the private sector. It was originally designed as a pilot for the
first 6-12 months in two districts of Sana’a, with a plan to learn from the experience, and if
successful scale up to more districts of Sana’a. Subsequently in the OM the design was expanded
to nine of the twelve districts of Sana’a, with a proposed phasing-in of the districts over four years.
It is unclear why this change in design took place, and in retrospect a smaller pilot may have
provided useful insights into the approach, in particular the understanding of the concept itself by
the private sector, its capacity, and what would make it attractive for their sustained engagement.

61.     The project was designed to be consistent with the six core concepts of OBA: (i) providing
targeted subsidies to poor groups; (ii) accountability for results; (iii) encouraging innovation and
efficiency; (iv) using incentives to serve the poor; (v) conducting output verification and
monitoring of results; and (vi) fostering sustainability. This is further discussed below:
                                                            
15Yemen      National Health and Demographic Survey, 2013




                                                               15 
62.     Targeting the poor: Income based targeting was used to ensure that subsides reached target
women living in nine selected districts in Sana’a, who otherwise could not afford quality health
care. SOUL, who was responsible for enrolment of eligible women, state in their final report that
the targeting could have benefitted from stronger verification techniques for the poor – “with the
spread of the good word about the project, middle class women who can afford the service would
pretend they are poor to enroll in the program. Despite SOUL efforts in investigating their cases,
logistical and financial capacity imposed a challenge for a comprehensive verification system”.
According to the TTL, the GPOBA’s design (to ensure sustainability) feature of copayment by the
beneficiaries may have excluded some of the poor.

63.      Accountability for results: The performance-based subsidies to the grant recipients made
them accountable for the agreed results, thereby shifting the performance risk to them in
accordance with the OBA concept. . The IFC’s appraisal had confirmed reasonableness of the
rates at project inception, yet this affected the service providers and the eventual revision of rates,
also resulting two changes of the project target and delayed implementation.

64.     Encouraging innovation and efficiency: As alluded to earlier, this project was an
innovative approach for Yemen and the health sector in the country. The original GPOBA subsidy
per capita of US$135 was designed to ensure “efficiency”/value for money for delivering the safe
motherhood SD package, and this was likely the reason why it took GPOBA and the Bank till
MTR to enhance the per capita subsidy, despite the private providers perceiving the subsidy to be
unviable from start of the project. While as an OBA concept, efficiency is achieved through
competition or benchmarking leading to value for money, the two private service providers in this
project were not selected through competition, instead through an appraisal of the private health
sector in Sana’a carried out by IFC, possibly because it being a novel approach in the country’s
health sector. That appraisal reviewed five hospitals in Sana’a and concluded that the quality
(services, staff, facilities, equipment) and capacity of the two providers’ private hospitals far
exceeded that of the other local Yemeni private providers (Annex 3 A).

65.     Use of incentives to serve the poor: Through the project, poor women were able to avail
services which were of better quality than the public sector by contributing US$15.16 Discussions
with SOUL gave some insight into the maternal care seeking behavior in Yemen. It was not that
women were completely unaware of the benefits of delivery at a health facility, and in the 1970s
women would avail of these services at public hospitals. Over time, there was a marked decline
in the quality of services provided at these hospitals, including their inappropriate behavior with
the poor. This resulted in women preferring to deliver at home and going to a public hospital when
complications forced them to (as shown in the baseline study for this project also). During the
later part of the project, based on the concerted community outreach that SOUL and positive the
experience of women treated by USTH, the numbers of women wanting to enroll and avail services
increased substantially. Discussions with USTH and SOUL revel that the targeted poor
communities are once again bereft of this benefit since project closing. This is an important
indication of the significance of ensuring sustainability of interventions.


                                                            
16
      According to the appraisal, this was reasonable, however the TTL reported that this could have resulted in some exclusions.


                                                                  16 
66.      Output verification and monitoring of results. The project M&E framework was designed
for this purpose and the IVE performed this function.

67.      Sustainability: The project implemented a performance-based program with selected
private service providers. However the design failed to ensure sustainability of the project
interventions. Due to the many challenges that it faced and the resultant changes that ensued, the
project closed with three satellite clinics (instead of 12 as envisaged); and even these, stopped
providing services to the eligible group of women as no grant subsidies were available in the
absence of a financial sustainability model17 In fact, SOUL stopped their enrolment process several
months before project closing so as to ensure that at least those enrolled would be assured delivery
services before completion of the project. According the final report provided by SOUL (October
2014), the profitability concern of the private sector threatened sustainability of the program. As
per the original design, the satellite clinics were to be operated as profit centers. The providers
agreed to deposit profits (if any) in excess of 5% margin into an escrow account/fund to be used
to fund any legitimate unexpected cost-overruns in the short-run e.g. larger than estimated
percentage of women requiring more expensive complicated and tertiary care. In the long run, the
main purpose of these funds would be to serve as a ‘sustainability fund’ that could attract co-
financing. While the program was designed in a way that the satellite clinics would provide
services at cost, these clinics could potentially generate additional revenues for paying patients
outside the scheme and not eligible to benefit from GOPBA subsidy. It was anticipated that
successful implementation of the first phase would attract local private large corporate companies
e.g. oil and industrial groupings to participate in the program. Specifically, it was meant to provide
a good demonstration of how private businesses in Yemen could make investments that were
socially responsible and contributed to the health of poorer communities. It was envisaged that
based on the pilot, the Government of Yemen may adopt the model as well as attract other
bilateral/multilateral donors and healthcare and finance providers to ensure sustainability, and
scale up to other surrounding governorates in Yemen. While some elements of this future program
design relate to successful projects from other regions in a non- fragile context, the sustainability
fund concept is the main element that SOUL plans to implement in the future.

68.     The design of the project was innovative and considerable work went into developing the
performance-based monitoring mechanism. In hindsight, this was possibly an ambitious
assumption that the private sector would participate fully, when financial sustainability was not
built into the design. As a model to demonstrate private participation to potentially influence
Yemeni public policy, this project has shown the means, but a substantial buy-in from the public
sector will likely take more time, given the past and current conflict and political situation in
Yemen. The rating for Relevance of Design is rated as Substantial.

Relevance of Implementation
69.    Implementation of the project, particularly in the early stages, was good and demonstrated
proactivity in identifying challenges and bottlenecks, e.g., poor enrollment and the unsatisfactory
performance of SGH. SOUL was assigned to better understand the issues for poor enrollment, and
subsequently implemented an aggressive and concerted marketing and communication strategy
                                                            
17
   One of the three clinics by USTH is currently being operated by their University Hospital. However no documentation is
available that the poor women are getting the same benefits. 


                                                               17 
which clearly reaped positive benefits. While the poor performance and unwillingness of SGH to
be a genuine partner in the program was evident during the first year of the project itself (though
as alluded to earlier, it had taken the lead during project preparation), the Bank team gave them
some more time to improve performance because of a change in their CEO and a renewed
expressed commitment. However, due to the impact of the global crisis (described earlier) they
exited from the project, closing their only clinic in May 2011, and more formally in May 2012.
The dissatisfaction with the price of the SD package was evident from the start, leading even the
well-performing USTH to withdraw briefly from the project, before the revised pricing was agreed
to. As the service delivery model continued to develop and to be well established, discussions were
then initiated as to how to sustain the program beyond the grant financed project. A number of
sources of funding were identified, and measures on how to establish this potential/future fund
were undergoing. Later, the project faced two major challenges. The first was the turmoil that hit
the region and deeply affected Yemen. The second was the suspension of disbursement to the
service providers. Both of them strongly affected the model that had just started to stabilize. The
security factor was in particular significant because it led to closing of many health facilities, and
the suspension of disbursement deprived grant recipients from the necessary cash to advance their
operation. Despite that, USTH started to reopen these closed facilities gradually and reaching
three clinics during the extended project implementation period.

70.     The Bank team attempted to rectify several of the design weaknesses, the political turmoil
and ensuing interruption of Bank oversight was a constraint in establishing a more robust dialogue
with the government during the project period to ensure sustainability of project interventions. The
rating for Relevance of Implementation is rated Substantial.

71.   The overall rating for Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation is
Substantial.

3.2 Achievement of PDOs

72.     The achievement of the PDOs is discussed with reference to the three amendments that
were made during the life of the project, and the achievement during those periods, before arriving
at an overall assessment of the achievement. It is to be noted, as described earlier, that since the
project did not have a defined Results Framework and PDO indicators, the most appropriate
indicator of number of safe deliveries by the service providers was taken as the key indicator (as
described in the OM). While the percentage of births by skilled attendants was a performance
indicator for the service providers, through the project life this was not taken as the key indicator
by the project, and therefore by this ICR. The second part of the PDO, “design and implement a
model of maternal care which demonstrates how Yemeni public policy on maternal and child care
can be effectively integrated with private health provision”, was not amended during the life of the
project, and no specific indicator or measure was defined.

(i)           Phase 1: September 9, 2008 - March 22, 2011 (2 years 6 months): number of eligible
              women who had safe child deliveries -5,049 18 (12.62% of the target of 40,000); and
              disbursement -US$0.57 out of 6.23 million (9%).

                                                            
18   % births by skilled attendants – 3,175 (7.9%)


                                                               18 
(ii)          Phase 2: March 22, 2011 – May 31, 2012 (1 year 2 months): cumulative number of eligible
              women who had safe child deliveries – 8,243 19 (27.48% of the target of the target of
              30,000); and cumulative disbursement - US$0.98 out of 6.23 million (16%).

(iii)         Phase 3: May 31, 2012 – February 28, 2014 (I year 9 months): cumulative number of
              eligible women who had safe child deliveries - 16,14120 (15,612 by USTH+529 by SGH)
              (108% of the target of 15,000); and disbursement – US$3.56 out of 3.92 million (91%).

73.    The project had a detailed M&E framework with performance indicators for both SOUL
and USTH, and these indicators were reported and verified by IVE against quarterly and semi-
annual targets of percentage achievement (Annex 3 D-E).

74.     At project MTR, a total of 3,989 women were enrolled of which 1,189 women (1026 by
USTH and 163 by SGH) had safe child deliveries (2.98%) with a disbursement of US$0.29 million
(4.8%). Extensive discussions on the pricing of the SD package, its impact on the need to reduce
the target of beneficiaries, and the unsatisfactory performance of SGH took place during the MTR,
including the potential need for a project extension (a decision on extension was deferred to July
2011). Following these conclusions, the first restructuring took place five months after the MTR
and addressed the SD package pricing, and therefore the need to reduce the end-project target of
beneficiaries. The second restructuring done 3 years and 8 months of the (till then) four year
project, when disbursement was 16% and cumulative achievement of the revised target was
27.48%, formalized the exclusion of SGH as a service provider resulting in a further reduction of
end-project target, an extension of the project, and partial cancelation of the Grant. It can be argued
the project could have benefitted from an earlier comprehensive restructuring of the project soon
after the MTR that would have realistically taken into account all the challenges that the project
was encountering, however given the socio-political context prevailing in the country, and some
of the constraints of working with three grant recipients,21 the Bank team made appropriate and
feasible decisions.

75.     In the absence of a measurable indicator defined for part (b) of the PDO, this ICR attempts
on assessing the extent to which the project enabled designing and implementing a model of
maternal care which demonstrated a potential engagement with the private sector and a subsequent
dialogue with the government. At MTR, the Bank team requested the original IVE, Cardno, to
provide an evaluation report on all aspects of the project including an analysis of the service
delivery model; and also contracted Options, a consulting firm, to provide advice on the most
suitable service delivery model for maternal health services based on experiences in Yemen. In
addition to the review report, Options helped organize the Amman workshop (referred to earlier).
Further discussions and sharing of the KfW experience resulted in the Bank’s MNVP project,
thereby initiating garnering of the government’s buy-in into a focus on results and contracting with
service providers for service delivery. Therefore, this project, as an innovative model and through
a difficult implementation in a fragile conflict country context, provided several lessons for the
future engagement in Yemen towards addressing maternal mortality, though it may take more time
                                                            
19  % births by skilled attendants – 5,273 (17.5%)
20  % births by skilled attendants – 12,282 (81.9%) 
21
    There were three grant recipients bound by one legal agreement which imposed inflexibility to reach a consensus during design
and implementation, and the requirement of getting written formal requests for restructuring and cancellation, thus the time lag
between reaching agreements on the ground and reflecting them in aide memoires and the actual finalization of restructuring.


                                                               19 
to build sustainable models of engagement with the private sector. There was a missed opportunity
of amending part (b) of the PDO during either or both of the project restructurings, to make it more
measurable and possibly realistic.

76.   Taking into account the weighted average of the PDO during the three phases of the project
(Moderately Satisfactory) and the assessment of part (b) of the PDO, the overall achievement of
the PDO is rated as Substantial.

3.3 Efficiency

77.      At the Commitment stage, a preliminary analysis was conducted based on secondary
research and the Program’s cost assumptions; and it was deemed that a quantitative economic and
financial analysis of the Program would not provide useful insights into the program, primarily as
there were minimal revenue streams (minimal user fees of US$15 per patient) as compared to the
per patient investment of US$135 made by GPOBA. Further, in the absence of detailed pricing
and household spending data, quantifying the expected economic benefits and conducting a robust
economic analysis was deemed not feasible and inappropriate. An IRR was calculated for the
satellite clinics and estimated to be 11%. Details of the costing and pricing are provided in Annex
3 A.

78.     Only a single maternal mortality was recorded amongst the deliveries reported under the
project, which indicates substantial gains for the limited group of project beneficiaries, given the
high maternal mortality ratio in Yemen. The assisted delivery rate reached 80%, ante and post
natal care 70%, and cesarean sections ranged between 5-15% for the enrolled women. Clearly a
group of poor women in their reproductive age benefitted from the project, however a more
detailed analysis was not possible as the population of beneficiaries was difficult to define
(particularly because the number of complicated pregnancies that could enroll with the project was
capped at 15%). In addition, due to the overall limited time and significantly delayed access to
data, and inability for a visit to or relevant discussions with stakeholders in Yemen the analysis
was limited. Efficiency is therefore rated as Modest.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

79.     Given the fact that the project was indeed a bold endeavor to test a new model of
engagement in the reproductive health sector in Yemen, combining the Substantial rating for the
relevance of objectives, design and implementation, and achievement of the PDOs and Modest
rating of efficiency, the Overall Outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

80.     Discussion with, and reports from SOUL, indicate that their participation in the project has
contributed to their capacity enhancement, and that they now feel better equipped and more
confidant to support similar initiatives, particularly working with external/international
organizations. Influenced by their experience, they have submitted a proposal to the Islamic Bank
for Development to Finance a ‘Solidarity Fund’ that would potentially support poor women to
avail the much needed maternal and child care services. This Fund was potentially meant to be
linked to the project beneficiaries and service providers, but has not happened so far.


                                                20 
81.     It is debatable the extent to which the project contributed to the capacity enhancement of
the two private service providers – one opting out during the project, and the other, USTH
performed well because of a champion (he had even initiated some discussions with the
Municipality /Government to operationalize some public clinics based on this model). However,
unfortunately this gentleman passed away recently, and USTH no longer seems to have a
champion. However, the project did build USTH’s capacity in working at the clinic level and
introducing the concept of performance-based financing, provided that institutional memory is
retained. The conflict of 2011 and current political uncertainty in Yemen have no doubt had a
negative on timely implementation.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

82.     As discussed above, Part (a) of the project was met with the substantially revised and
reduced target during the extended period of the project. However, according to available
information, no part of the intervention is being continued after project closing (no enrollment of
poor women or provision of subsidized maternal care to them by the private service provider)
because the grant subsidy is no longer available and the financial sustainability model envisioned
was not realized. Because of the prevailing uncertain country context, sustained Government
commitment is yet to fully materialize, as it may be less of a priority for the Government, given
the situation. The follow-on Bank project which supports maternal and newborn care is a
performance-based voucher program working with public hospitals in the rural areas and urban
slums of selected parts of Yemen, so far is not linked to project intervention in Sana’a. Based on
this assessment, the Risk to the Development Outcome is rated High.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry:
83.     The project was prepared based on a GPOBA Concept Note. For the period following the
Concept Note and till the GPOBA Commitment Document and GA (signed on June 8, 2008), no
other documents were prepared. Subsequently a detailed OM was prepared (providing all
necessary details, but differing from the Commitment Document at several places) enabling
Project Effectiveness on September 9, 2008. Feedback from SOUL indicates that while the project
was being prepared (and till MTR) despite many interactions with the Bank team, there was a near
complete lack of understanding of the project concept itself on part of the two selected private
service providers (IFC clients). Therefore, the service providers did not comprehend fully the
nature of the innovative model and the capacity requirements of implementing the project,
particularly setting up and operating the satellite clinics. And most importantly, the service
providers were dissatisfied with the pricing of the SD package, perceiving it as being financially
unviable for them. This was dealt with by the Bank and IFC team by capping the complicated
cases/cesarean sections at 15% of all cases received, thereby forcing SOUL not to/be able to enroll
the high risk pregnancy cases, thereby defeating the very objective of the project of providing
access to quality services to all eligible women As per discussions with the TTL, GPOBA
guidelines placed certain constraints during implementation, e.g., being unable to provide pre-
financing to the service providers and the co-payment by the beneficiaries. This raises the concern


                                                21 
of whether GPOBA guidelines were flexible enough to the respond to the evolving project context
and increasing fragility to meet project objectives by all stakeholders. The setting of the original
target of 40,000 beneficiaries may have been ambitious given the overall context. Given the above,
the project could have been better prepared to ensure the full commitment and engagement of all
parties, including setting of a realistic end-project target 22 , thereby mitigating many of the
implementation challenges and project restructurings that ensued. Therefore, on balance, given
an innovative design, but lack of clarity with the main stakeholders, the rating of Bank
Performance in ensuring Quality at Entry is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Quality of Bank Supervision:
84.      As alluded to earlier in the ICR, the Bank team identified several of the key implementation
challenges early during implementation, and was proactive in supporting some remedial measures,
such as working with SOUL to improve enrollment rates. The revision of the SD package and
rates, and thereby the first revision to the number of target beneficiaries was done soon after MTR.
However, it took till almost (about three months before) till the original project closing, to bring
the other necessary changes into effect, which resulted in lost time and limiting the model for
demonstration to a single service provider, finally having to extend the project with a partial
cancelation of the Grant to be able to reach the revised the end-project target of beneficiaries
served. Discussions with the TTL revealed that these delays were a result of the inability of
convincing an IFC client to withdraw from the project and legal issues related to that, as described
earlier.

85.     The early confusion regarding IFC, GPOBA vs Bank requirements to be followed resulted
in only GPOBA Semi-Annual Reports (SAR) from the TTL to GPOBA for missions in August
2008, December 2008 and May 2009. Following this, and a clarification from OPCS, the first aide
memoire was provided for a mission in March 2010.23 Following that four more missions are
recorded by their respective aide memoires, the last one being in November-December 2013 (no
final project closing mission is documented through an aide memoire). GPOBA SARs were also
produced resulting in a duplication of effort by the task team. The ICR was delayed beyond six
months of closing due to inability to visit the country.24

86.     As per the September 2010 GPOBA SAR, a Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio was
conducted for the project in May 2010 and its recommendations included a two year extension of
the project. On September 16, 2010, GPOBA provided a no objection to the Bank to make
amendments to the payment mechanism (described earlier in the ICR) and a two year project
extension. A MTR for the project started in September 2010 and was completed the following
month after an agreement reached on the pricing of the SD package. The implementation
challenges that the project was facing were highlighted at MTR, and the need to restructure the
project (including a request from the Grant recipients) was referred to in the January 2011 mission.

                                                            
22
    August 2008 GPOBA SAR, before project effectiveness, states the ability of the grant recipients to reach the target of 40,000
as one of the risks.  
23
    Discussion with the TTL indicated that he would combine missions for different tasks in Yemen – preparation of the Health
and Population Project and a Schistosomiasis Project, however unfortunately those documents had little reference to this project.
24
    This ICR Author was requested to take the task in mid-July 2014 and no ICR mission was possible because of the security
situation in the country.


                                                               22 
This mission rated the project as ‘Unsatisfactory’25and indicated that a project extension of two
years would likely be required to reach the revised proposed target of 30,000 women. This
proposed extension and upgrading of project rating to ‘Satisfactory’ was made conditional (by the
Bank and GPOBA) to the formal revision of the PDO target and an enrollment of 10,000
beneficiaries by June 30, 2011. The next reported mission (reverse mission in Amman, Jordan)
after that was in October 201226 after both the first and second restructurings were completed and
rated the project as ‘Satisfactory’. The government also participated in this mission and the project
experience and implementation model was shared with them. No other discussions with the
Government are recorded through the supervision period. Management letters for two of the five
aide memoires were available for review for the ICR. ISRs were also prepared following the
OPCS clarification, and a total of eight ISRs (Seq. 2-9) from December 2010 to June 2014 were
available for review - with PDO/IP ratings being Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU)/MU till Nov.
2011, with an upgrading to Moderately Satisfactory (MS)/MS in July 2012 and further to
Satisfactory (S)/S in December 2012 which was maintained till project closing. The ISRs however
provided no discussion or justification of the ratings and their change, and no issues were brought
to Management’s attention. Comments by Management were provided in the last ISR. While the
main dependence was on IVE reports, there is no documented evidence of the Bank team following
up on issues such as only the finger-printing being used as the verification means (and in reality
only IDs), or safeguards compliance (for which documentation in the required format was not
available).

87.     Performance of the Independent Verification and Evaluation Agency- the IVE performed
its designated tasks through the project (though there was a change in the IVE as described earlier).
Given the critical importance that the IVE monitoring and reporting played in the project design,
and that there are some data discrepancies and interpretation of key definitions, including in its
final report, IVE’s Performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

88.     Overall, the project design and implementation challenges were identified early on and
substantial hand-holding was provided by the Bank team till MTR. This resulted in two project
restructurings which enabled part (a) of the PDO to be achieved. There was likely a missed
opportunity in addressing the ambiguity of measurement of part (b) of the PDO, however the Bank
team did work towards learning from the demonstration model. Subsequently the conflict period
was difficult for supervision and monitoring, and these events likely adversely affected a more
meaningful engagement with the government. In conclusion, the Quality of Bank Supervision is
rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:
89.    Proactive identification and addressing of the challenges early during project supervision
helped achieve part of PDO following the restructurings. The highly satisfactory performance of
SOUL, described below, was no doubt facilitated and supported by the Bank team. Lessons were
learned and appropriately incorporated into the MNVP project including the decision to use
vouchers instead of performance-based financing. Therefore, Overall Bank Performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.
                                                            
25
      Though the February 2011 ISR rates are MU/MU 
26
      The hiatus due to the conflict in 2011, but does not explain the gap of almost one year and nine months. 


                                                                   23 
5.2 Borrower Performance

90.           The Government did not substantially participate in the project beyond project approval.

Performance of the Grant Recipients (Implementing Agencies):
91.    To begin with the project was implemented by three grant recipients, however with the
withdrawal of one of them, the project closed with two. Their individual performance is described
below.

92.     SOUL - SOUL was responsible for three main tasks - community outreach to promote and
execute marketing for the project; enrollment of eligible women; and education/awareness
campaigns on maternal and child health. At the start, the project baseline was also done by SOUL.
Throughout the project, SOUL was a willing and enthusiastic partner, understood the project, and
met its performance targets on a regular basis. SOUL represented the grant recipients as the Project
Coordinator throughout the life of the project (though originally envisaged to be on a six-monthly
rotational basis). It, likely went even beyond its terms of reference to help resolve challenges, e.g.,
when it played the role of an effective mediator between the Bank team and USTH when the latter
was proposing to withdraw from the project in 2010. The tailor-made communication campaign
developed by SOUL and implemented in response to the doubts and suspicions that the community
had about the project paid dividends in terms of marked improvements in enrollments. Even later
in the project during its extended phase, SOUL launched a three-track health education campaign
targeting – the field (schools, mosques, other community places); medical staff to increase
awareness of maltreatment of patients; and media.27 By the end of field promotion for enrollment
in September 2013, according to their database (which is maintained till date) they had approached
and registered 34,271 women. However the total number of ID issued was 20,499 - around 25%
of women dropped out for personal reasons or were declined enrolment as they had complicated
pregnancies. SOUL’s final report (October 2014) documents their feedback that this project had a
unique and untraditional design (and first for Yemen) that created a partnership between NGOs
and the private sector to address the maternal mortality challenge; and that the results-based design
contributed to the achievements. Inspired by the project experience, SOUL has initiated the
process of establishing a Fund to enable poor women to get critical maternal services. SOUL’s
Performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory.28

93.       USTH – In terms of performance as measured by timely setting up of the satellite
            29
clinics and service delivery indicators, USTH performed well through the project. However,
because of financial losses that it was facing, USTH expressed its desire to withdraw from the
project around September 2010, and its 5 clinics stopped providing services. According to the
                                                            
27
   In the last two weeks of December 2013, 8 Radio short dialogues were prepared and broadcasted on Sana’a Radio. The
dialogues were repeated three times a day to total up to 18 minutes a day. Female audience is estimated to have reached around
100,000 only in Sana’a, besides more audience in different parts of the country where Sana’a Radio reaches. SOUL website and
blog. Facebook SMP page got 1700 likes. 
28 While the ICR author was informed that, SOUL, during the same period of project implementation was rated Unsatisfactory

for two other projects in Yemen (the Healthy Mother Project, and the Youth Project), this assessment is based only on what
SOUL was meant to do in this project and how it performed.

29
  Two satellite clinics established by August 2009, 5 by MTR and one after that, all 6 closed in 2011, 2 reopened in April 2012,
1 more reopened in October 2012, therefore 3 clinics then operated till closing. 


                                                               24 
Bank team, these losses resulted from the lack of experience in implementing the innovative
outputs-based disbursement service delivery model at the satellite clinics, as USTH’s was mostly
related with service delivery at the hospital level. USTH also successfully implemented certain
cost containment measures at their clinics after the MTR. Since post-MTR agreements, USTH was
fully engaged in the project, and by closing of the project had provided safe delivery services to
15,612 women of which 1,172 were complicated. A total of 10,316 (66%) of these women availed
of four antenatal visits, and 10,407 (66.7%) had one postnatal visit. USTH’s Performance is rated
as Satisfactory.

94.        SGH – The unsatisfactory performance, and doubts of its commitment to the project was
highlighted by the Bank team from August 2009 onwards30, despite SGH having been an IFC
client. SGH seemed to be the most dissatisfied with the pricing of the SD package. At MTR, SGH
was operating one clinic and had provided delivery services to 163 women. At the close of MTR,
SGH expressed a renewed interest to participate, and the Bank team agreed on time-bound actions
which included opening of more clinics; however in January 2011 it conveyed to the Bank that it
would not be opening any new clinics. The Bank even agreed that SGH would continue operating
only one clinic and that their end-project target would be reduced to 2,000. While the formal
withdrawal of SGH from the project was in May 2012 (second restructuring),31 it had stopped
providing services since May 2011 when its sole clinic was closed. However SGH delayed the
formal agreement because of their reluctance to formally withdraw from the project. Till then,
SGH had provided safe delivery services to 529 women of which 56(10.6%) were complicated. A
total of 207 (39%) of these women availed of four antenatal visits, and 204 (39%) had one postnatal
visit. While SGH’s withdrawal was attributed largely to the financial crisis, based on the
assessment, SGH’s Performance is rated as Highly Unsatisfactory.

Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:
95.      Despite the highly unsatisfactory performance of SGH, given the fact that the project was
able to reach its revised end- target of reaching eligible poor women with safe maternal care
services despite many implementation challenges, significantly because of the commitment of
SOUL and USTH, the Overall Borrower Performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.


 




                                                            
30
    In 2009 when SHG had not yet established its first satellite clinic and it was providing services to eligible beneficiaries through
an outpatient clinic in its hospital, it was working with less than minimum staff which increased its reputational risk thereby
negatively affecting enrollment rates. SGH was allowed a transitional period up to May 31, 2009 to continue to operate through
this outpatient clinic to provide services only for the already enrolled cases, and it was agreed that enrolled new cases would be
referred to the new clinic, once established and fully operational.
 
31
      The TTL informed the ICR that SGH took a long time to sign the legal papers that marked their withdrawal from the project.


                                                                 25 
6. Lessons Learned
 

Ensuring a Standard of Practice for the World Bank Group:
96.       This project has an important lesson demonstrating the importance of a clear
understanding and agreement of guidelines, requirements and its implications for project
preparation and implementation by different members of the Group. A better clarity and realism
on the applicability of GPOBA policies and procedures to Bank projects is critical. Some of the
guidelines, e.g., inability to pre-finance service providers, and the implications of working with an
IFC client later caused considerable implementation delays, including that GPOBA’s principle of
copayment by the beneficiaries may have excluded some of the poor.
Establish a more thorough understanding of the country context, capacity and requirements of
all project participants during project identification and continue to promote this understanding
with sustained collaboration throughout implementation:
97.        While the project design was no doubt innovative for the Yemen health sector and
benefitted from this pilot, with hindsight it could have benefited from a much more robust
assessment of readiness of all parties, and, given the innovative project approach and fragile
context, from more intensive collaboration amongst all parties during preparation and
implementation. Although the project clearly addressed needs identified in the CAS, Government
was not involved throughout the project to the level envisioned at inception, yet it was assumed
that they would be positively influenced by the experience. Non-governmental participants,
specifically the private sector and NGO service providers, were consulted during project design
and inception; however, it is unclear that the nature and extent of discussions were sufficient for
full understanding of the requirements involved in such an innovative program and within the
fragility context. This lack of clarity was reported to have diminished the original enthusiasm and
interest of the providers.
Introducing innovations through smaller pilots with regular reviews, particularly in a conflict-
fragile country:
98.        When introducing innovations, which are no doubt needed to influence desired
development outcomes, smaller pilots with regular reviews may be more effective. The project
may have benefitted had it retained the original project design of a pilot of six months to one year
followed by a critical review, and then gradually expanded with additional service providers and
more government participation based on lessons from the pilot and any adjustments needed to
account for the increasingly fragile context. This is particularly important in this instance where
the project attempted a number of simultaneous innovations, including influencing change in
health seeking behaviors that have deep cultural roots, introducing an output based approach to
service delivery and inviting collaboration between the government and the non-governmental
sector, both for-profit and not-for-profit, with an intent to influence public policy, all against the
context of escalating fragility.
Clear targeting of the poor and opportunities for cross subsidization:
99.       The PDO included the distinct goal focused on providing quality maternal care to a
targeted group of poor women. The project used both geographic targeting and a variety of


                                                 26 
marketing methods to reach this goal. Poverty and fragility levels continued to increase during the
project period, yet it is not fully clear the extent to which this affected the project, as this requires
deeper examination beyond the scope of this report.

100.       The project design envisioned that satellite clinics would eventually operate as profit
centers in that future phases would see participation by the non-poor (specifically through
company and industry health programs) at differentiated pricing levels. This non-poor
participation would generate additional revenues earmarked for a sustainability fund, a mechanism
used successfully in other regions. For the complex contextual reasons presented throughout, this
vision was not realized; however, SOUL plans to adopt this sustainability fund approach.

101.        There was evidence of sustained demand for these services, as reported by SOUL, both
from the poor and, more surprisingly, from non-poor individuals (not through companies), who
tried to enroll in the last two years of the project. There appears to have been no project mechanism
for capitalizing on the desired participation of non-poor individuals, which may have provided an
alternative source of some cross subsidization and project strengthening.
Complexity vs Need for a Robust M&E System:
102.       There is no doubt that all projects require M&E; that robust M&E is a core concept for
successful performance based projects; and, that independent verification is required because the
payment of grant subsidies is based on achievement of individual outputs. There is an important
distinction to be made between a robust system and a complex system. The set of performance
indicators, monitoring and tracking indicators and performance bands were all reported; however,
heavy reporting requirements (all of which translate to increased costs for all parties), data
inconsistencies and misinterpretation raise the issue whether a simpler system would have been
more useful, provided for more straightforward evaluation and ensured better oversight.
Additionally, the absolute dependence on the IVE reports may merit an adjustment for future
similar projects.
A more structured and concerted engagement with Government, the Ministry of Health
(required) and also the Ministry of Finance (desirable), is required for any project that wishes
to effectively influence public policy, especially one that envisions growth using government and
donor mobilized resources, as in this instance.
103.      Involvement could be facilitated by exposure to similar experience and technical
dialogue with counterparts from other countries, as well as close monitoring of the evolving
country context, and within that context, the changing priorities for government.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

       a)    Borrower/Implementing Agencies: A completion report by SOUL is available and
             can be accessed separately.
       b)    Co-financiers: Not applicable.
       c)    Other Partners and stakeholders: Not applicable.




                                                   27 
                                                              REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                                         Safe Motherhood Voucher Program

                                                        Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

        a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                       Prior to the restructuring:
                                                                                      Actual/Latest
                                                                   Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
                            Components                                                Estimate (USD
                                                                    (USD millions)                             Appraisal
                                                                                         millions)

 Project Preparation and Start-up                                              0.049440        0.047159                95.39%

 Establishment of Satellite Clinics                                            0.466200      0.16968324                36.40%

 Service Delivery                                                              5.403960      2.54810569                47.15%

 Community Outreach Administrative                                             0.356600      0.55276798               155.01%

 Education and Awareness Campaigns                                             0.189000      0.23750902               125.67%

 Beneficiaries contributions                                                   0.612000       0.24531032               40.08%

                            Total Financing Required                           7.077200        3.800535                 53.7%


                       After restructuring:
                                                                          Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                                                               Percentage of
                                Components                              Estimate (USD        Estimate (USD
                                                                                                                Appraisal
                                                                           millions)            millions)

Project Preparation and Start-up                                                  0.049440        0.047159              95.39%

Establishment of Satellite Clinics                                                0.169690      0.16968324             100.00%

Service Delivery                                                                  2.815480      2.54810569              90.50%

Community Outreach Administrative                                                 0.557740      0.55276798              99.11%

Education and Awareness Campaigns                                                 0.319840      0.23750902              74.26%

Beneficiaries contributions                                                       0.612000       0.24531033             40.08%

                                   Total Financing Required                        4.52419        3.800535                84%



                                                            
32   As per the FTR
33
      As per the FTR 


                                                                         28 
     b) Financing

 

                                                                Actual/Latest
    Source of                           Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
                 Type of Co-financing                             Estimate
     Funds                               (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                               (USD millions)

WB
                        Grant                     6.232100               3.56           62.9%
(GPOBA)

                                                                                        41.4%
Beneficiaries         Copayment                   0.612000           0.245310
                                                                                          40%

Service             Contribution to
                                                  0.233100           0.169690           72.8%
Providers         Construction of SCs

         Total                                          7.07             4.34          61.3 %



                                   




                                                  29 
                                          REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                     Safe Motherhood Voucher Program

                                     Annex 2. Final Disbursement Table

                                      


                Category                    Original           Amount of         Actual        Percentage
                                             Grant              the Grant     Disbursement          of
                                           Allocation           Allocated                     Expenditures
                                                                   after                          to be
                                             (US$)
                                                              restructuring                     Financed
                                                                                                   after
                                                                 (US$)
                                                                                              restructuring

    (A) Project Preparation and Start-
                                                 49440               49440          47,159          95.39%
    up - SOUL

    (B) Community Outreach
                                               356600               557740      552,767.98          99.11%
    Administrative Cost-SOUL

    (C) Education and Awareness
                                               189000               319840      237,509.02          74.26%
    Campaigns-SOUL

    (D) Establishment of Satellite
    Clinics
         D-1 USTH-AL MAWARID
                                               116550               150260      150,258.24        100.00%
         D-2 SYHC
                                               116550                19430          19,425          99.97%

    (E) Service Delivery Subsidies            5403960              2815480     2,548,105.69         90.50%

                                 Total        6232100             3,912,190    3,555,224.93        90.88%




                                                        30 
                                    REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                               Safe Motherhood Voucher Program

                                 Annex 3. Outputs by Components



A. Pricing of Safe Motherhood Service Delivery Package

 Appraisal Survey by IFC - Summary of costs from five Yemeni hospitals (US$)

                                               Saudi                            German
                                                                                                Mother
                         Azal Hospital        German      UST Hospital          Yemen
                                                                                                Hospital
                                              Hospital                          Hospital


  Antenatal Care        54               57               64               64              34


  Delivery              155              180              149              180             68


  Family Planning       18               29               20               20              12


  Basic Package         227              266              233              264             114




  C-Section             300              750              390              450             298



 1.      According to the Concept Note, a preliminary local costing market research was conducted
 to determine an indicative average cost per patient of the defined package of services that could
 be used as a basis to launch the pilot. The average cost amounted to US$160 ($120 for antenatal
 care + delivery + family planning, $31 built-in subsidy to allow for a maximum of 20% caesarian
 sections, $5 built-in subsidy for other diseases during pregnancy, and $4 for the Voucher
 Management Unit fees (original design was voucher-based). The Panel of Experts at the Concept
 Stage endorsed a package price of US$150 that was negotiated and agreed with the service
 providers. While the package price was discounted to current quoted prices, it is deemed fair given
 that the bulk of services would be delivered at the community and not hospital level. A minimal
 user fee of US$15 would be contributed by each targeted women, which would be paid in month
 8 or 9 of the pregnancy, prior to delivery. The US$15 was determined based on the current practice
 of Yemeni families giving US$10-US$20 on the day of delivery to whoever helped the pregnant
 woman deliver. The costs of treatment and medication in the package price including an assumed
 estimated 15% of patients requiring caesarian sections/emergency care. This price was also
 compared to local and international peer pricing. While the package price agreed by the two


                                                   31 
 providers was within the range of pricing of other private Yemeni providers, the quality (services,
 staff, facilities, equipment) and capacity of the two providers’ current private hospitals far
 exceeded that of the other local Yemeni private providers. Internationally, the package pricing was
 also comparable e.g. costs of similar quality services by similar quality providers in India range
 from US$350-1500.

 2.  Original: Service Delivery Package price - up to a maximum of US$150.00 – with
 GPOBA subsidy up to maximum of US$135.00 and Beneficiary Contribution of US$15.00.

 Revised Pricing of Safe Motherhood Service Delivery Package agreed at MTR34

   Revised Price of Service                                        Beneficiary        GPOBA Subsidy        Unit Cost (US$)
   Package                                                      Contribution (US$)       (US$)
   Category A: Normal                                                 15.00              120.00                  135.00
   Delivery
   Category B: Special                                                15.00              200.00                  215.00
   Pregnancies and Deliveries
   Category C: Cesarean                                               15.00              450.00                  465.00
   Section and Emergency
   Operations
   Optional: Neonatal Care in                                                            125.00
   incubator for unlimited
   number of days


B. Environmental and Social Performance Requirements as per Grant Agreement

 3.            Throughout the duration of the project:

 4.     The Service Providers shall: (a) design, construct, operate, maintain and monitor the
 Project in compliance with the Government of Yemen and local requirements as well as the
 applicable IFC Performance Standards on Social & Environmental Sustainability), and the
 applicable Environmental, Health, and Safety General Guidelines (General Environmental, Health
 and Safety, and Health Care Facilities), and (b) provide AMR to the World Bank, as specified in
 section 6.3.6 and Annex F of the OM. The AMR information has to be collected in a manner
 consistent with applicable IFC Environment and Health and Safety Guidelines (which include
 Environmental and Health and Safety – General Guidelines (April 2007) and Environmental and
 Health and Safety Guidelines for Health Care Facilities (April 2007) and the requirements of the
 Country.




                                                             
 34
    The revised price list was developed based on: (i) study of the actual costs of the two Service Providers (USTH and SGH) and
 (ii) the market prices of equivalent Service Providers to ensure that these prices were competitive, economical, and developed in
 a transparent manner. The price list also provided incentives for efficiency to contain costs and ensure the continuation of Service
 Providers in the delivery of the package of services under the Project. 


                                                                                32 
 5.          For each clinic, the Service Providers will ensure the following:

             a) each clinic has, prior to opening, prepared written procedures dealing with sanitation,
                infection control and medical waste handling, and has trained the staff in application of
                these procedures; and
             b) relevant aspects of the Environmental and Social Management Systems for the Service
                Providers (as detailed in the OM) will be applied in all aspects of the day-to-day
                operations of the clinics, including in particular:

                i.       regular re-training of staff on sanitation, infection control and medical waste
                         management;
               ii.       regular internal auditing of environmental and social performance; and
              iii.       Appropriate record-keeping and reporting on sanitation, infection control and
                         medical waste management.

C. Details of Targeted Districts and Clinics Established and their Operationalization

   No.       District                      No. of Satellite    Service Providers
                                               Clinics

                                      Planned      Actual      Planned             Actual

   1.                                 1            1                               USTH
             Bani-Al Hareth                                    SGH
   2.                                 2            0                               -
             Al-Thurah                                         SGH
   3.                                 2            1           SGH                 SGH
             Shua'ob

   4.                                 1            0           SGH                 -
             Sana'a Old City

   5.                                 2            1           USTH
             Ma'een                                                                USTH

   6.                                 1            1           USTH
             Al-Safia                                                              USTH

   7.                                 1            1           USTH                USTH
             Azal

   8.                                 0            1           -
             Al-Tahrir                                                             USTH

   9.                                 0            1           -
             Al Wehda                                                              USTH

   10.                                1            0           USTH                -
             Al-Sabeen

                                      12           7           6 SGH – 6 USTH          1    SGH – 6
             Total
                                                                                            USTH




                                                              33 
                      Operationalization of Satellite Clinics over the 3 Project Periods

     Service              Period 135 (Sep 2008 – Mar                  Period 236 (Apr 2011 – May    Period 3 (Jun 2012 – Feb
     Provider             2011)                                       2012)                         2014)

                          Planned               Actual         %      Planned     Actual     %      Planned    Actual    %

     USTH                 6                     6              100    6           2          33.3   6          3         50

     SGH                  6                     1              16.6

     Total                12                    7              58.3   6           2          3.33   6          3         50




                                                            
35   Represents the period prior to the first amendment to the GA.
36   Represents the period prior after the first amendment till the second amendment to the GA. 


                                                                           34 
       D. Performance Indicators and Bands for Service Providers

   USTH output table




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Q10



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Q11



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Q12



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Q13



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q14



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Q15



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Q16



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Q17



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Q18



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Q19



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Q20
                                                 Q1



                                                                      Q2



                                                                                         Q3



                                                                                                            Q4



                                                                                                                               Q5



                                                                                                                                                  Q6



                                                                                                                                                                     Q7



                                                                                                                                                                                        Q8



                                                                                                                                                                                                           Q9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Cumulative Total
Indicator
                                                 Sep 08-Jun 09




                                                                                         Oct-Dec 09




                                                                                                                                                                     Oct-Dec 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Oct-Dec 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Oct-Dec 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Oct-Dec 13
                                                                                                            Jan-Mar 10




                                                                                                                                                                                        Jan-Mar 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jan-Mar 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jan-Mar 13
                                                                                                                               Apr-Jun 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Apr-Jun 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Apr-Jun 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Apr-Jun 13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jan-Feb 14
                                                                      Jul-Sep 09




                                                                                                                                                  Jul-Sep 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jul-Sep 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jul-Sep 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jul-Sep 13
                                   Unit
Performance based indicators
                                   Actual   0                    28                99                 171                482                999                664                523                489                805                591                212                306                587                651                782                1146              1677               1608               252                12,072

% of births assisted by skilled    Target   0                    46                147                215                618                1343               1259               787                649                1125               797                281                342                705                806                922                1344              1927               1857               337                15,507
attendants (Target of >= 80%)      %        0%                   61%               67%                80%                78%                74%                53%                66%                75%                72%                74%                75%                89%                83%                81%                85%                85%               87%                87%                75%                78%

% of women with potential or       Actual   0                    3                 13                 19                 55                 80                 28                 29                 26                 60                 74                 45                 44                 71                 56                 69                 89                190                173                48                 1,172

acute obstetric complication       Target   0                    46                147                215                618                1343               1259               787                649                1125               797                281                342                705                806                922                1344              1927               1857               337                15,507
referred to the hospital (Target   %        0%                   7%                9%                 9%                 9%                 6%                 2%                 4%                 4%                 5%                 9%                 16%                13%                10%                7%                 7%                 7%                10%                9%                 14%                8%
of 5-15%)
                                   Actual   0                    44                121                205                387                554                631                459                455                702                464                66                 285                590                488                851                1141              1431               1105               337                10,316
% of women that complete
                                   Target   0                    46                147                215                618                1343               1259               787                649                1125               797                281                342                705                806                922                1344              1927               1857               337                15,507
basic antenatal care visits (4
visits) (Target of >= 75%)         %        0%                   96%               82%                95%                63%                41%                50%                58%                70%                62%                58%                23%                83%                84%                61%                92%                85%               74%                60%                100%               67%

                                   Actual   0                    36                107                213                475                816                602                580                414                533                376                157                239                447                451                716                1154              1545               1546               0                  10,407
% of women that complete
                                   Target   0                    46                147                215                618                1343               1259               787                649                1125               797                281                342                705                806                922                1344              1927               1857               337                15,507
basic postnatal care visits (1
visit) (Target of >= 75%)          %        0%                   78%               73%                99%                77%                61%                48%                74%                64%                47%                47%                56%                70%                63%                56%                78%                86%               80%                83%                0%                 67%




                                                                                                                                                                                        35 
    USTH output table as per the restructuring periods

                                                                   Period 137 (Sep 2008 – Mar 2011)             Period 238 (Apr 2011 – May 2012)   Period 3 (Jun 2012 – Feb 2014)

Indicator                                                          Target           Achievement       %         Target     Achievement     %       Target     Achievement     %

                                                                   4415              2966             67.18     3899       2990            76.69   7898       6703            84.87
% of births assisted by skilled
attendants (Target of >= 80%)
                                                                   4415              227              5.14      3981       278             6.98    7898       696             8.81
% of women with potential or acute
obstetric complication referred to the
hospital (Target of 5-15%)
% of women that complete basic                                     4415              2401             54.38     3194       1972            61.74   7898       5943            75.25
antenatal care visits (4 visits) (Target of
>= 75%)
% of women that complete basic                                     4415              2829             64.08     3194       1719            53.82   7898       5859            74.18
postnatal care visits (1 visit) (Target of
>= 75%)




                                                                
    37
          Represents the period prior to the first amendment to the GA.
    38   Represents the period prior after the first amendment till the second amendment to the GA. 


                                                                                                              36 
SGH Output table




                                                                                                                            Q2 July - Sept 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                           Q5 Apr-June 2010




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q9 Apr-June 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Q6 July-Sept 2010
                                                                                                                                                                        Q4 Jan-Mar 2010




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Q8 Jan-Mar 2011
                                                                                                                                                   Q3 Oct - Dec 2009
                                                                                                        Q1 Sep 2008-June




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Q7 Oct-Dec 2010




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cumulative Total
                                                                                                             2009
 Indicator




                                                                                               Unit
                                                                                      Actual                        0               9              24                   25                 27                         5             81                 38                        1              210

                                                                                      Target                        0       31                     49                   39                 44                  56                  126                114                 69                    528
 % of births assisted by skilled attendants ((Target of >= 80%)

                                                                                      %                      0%            29%                    49%                  64%                61%                 9%                   64%                33%                1%                  39.77%

                                                                                      Actual                        0               2                     5                   6            16                         2             15                 10                        0               56
 % of women with potential or acute obstetric complication referred to the hospital
                                                                                      Target                        0       31                     49                   39                 44                  56                  126                114                 69                    528
 (Target of 515%)
                                                                                      %                      0%            6%                     10%                  15%                36%                 4%                   12%                9%                 0%                  10.61%

                                                                                      Actual                        0       13                     11                   21                 17                  36                   36                 54                 19                    207
  % of women that complete basic antenatal care visits (4 visits) (Target of >=
                                                                                      Target                        0       31                     49                   39                 44                  56                  126                114                 69                    528
 75%)
                                                                                      %                      0%            42%                    22%                  54%                39%                 64%                  29%                47%                28%                 39.20%

                                                                                      Actual                        0               6              22                   32                 31                         6             66                 40                        1              204

 % of women that complete basic postnatal care visits (1 visit) (Target of >= 75%)    Target                        0       31                     49                   39                 44                  56                  126                114                 69                    528

                                                                                      %                      0%            19%                    45%                  82%                70%                 11%                  52%                35%                1%                  38.64%




                                                                                                      37 
SGH output table as per the restructuring periods

                                                                            Period 139 (Sep 2008 – Mar           Period 240 (Apr 2011 – May       Period 3 (Jun 2012 – Feb
                                                                            2011)                                2012)                            2014)

  Indicator                                                                 Target    Achievement        %       Target    Achievement        %   Target    Achievement      %

                                                                            528       210                39.77
  % of births assisted by skilled attendants (Target of >= 80%)
  % of women with potential or acute obstetric complication referred        528       56                 10.61
  to the hospital (Target of 5-15%)
  % of women that complete basic antenatal care visits (4 visits)           528       207                39.20
  (Target of >= 75%)
  % of women that complete basic postnatal care visits (1 visit)            528       204                38.64
  (Target of >= 75%)
NB: the targets were calculated for the respective periods from the different updates and not the cumulative




                                                            
39   Represents the period prior to the first amendment to the GA.
40   Represents the period prior after the first amendment till the second amendment to the GA. 


                                                                                            38 
E. Performance Indicators and Bands for SOUL


                                                                                                         Table 1: Output Table (SOUL)


 SOUL                                   Unit        Q1               Q2               Q3            Q4           Q5           Q6           Q7           Q8           Q9            Q10           Q11           Q12           Q13           Q14           Q15           Q16           Q17           Q18           Q19           Q20




                                                     Sep 08-Jun 09

                                                                      Jul 09-Sep 09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Project Total
                                                                                                    Jan-Mar 10




                                                                                                                                                        Jan-Mar 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jan-Mar 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jan-Mar 13
                                                                                                                 Apr-Jun 10




                                                                                                                                                                      Apr-Jun 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Apr-Jun 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Apr-Jun 13
                                                                                       Oct-Dec 09




                                                                                                                                           Oct-Dec 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Oct-Dec 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Oct-Dec 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Oct-Dec 13

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jan-Feb 14
                                                                                                                              Jul-Sep 10




                                                                                                                                                                                    Jul-Sep 11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jul-Sep 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jul-Sep 13
             Indicator
      Intermediate Indicators




 Number of women enrolled in the
 project                                            406              245              575           968 1795 1231                          907 1157                  896            346                   0     854           936 1051 1449 1979 1833                                               240              10                  0   16,878
 Performance based indicators

                                        Target      720              900 1080 1200 1736 2128 1500 2100 1504                                                                         NR            489           NR            840           NR            708           NR            768           NR            704           704          19,053
 % of total women targeted per six
 months which are enrolled/registered
 in the project (Target of 75%)         Actual       406              245              575           968 1795 1231                          907 1157                  896          NR             346          NR 1790                     NR 1449                     NR 1833                     NR              10            10          16,888
                                        %           56%              27%              53%           81% 103% 58%                           60% 55%                   60%           N/A           71%           N/A 213%                    N/A 205%                    N/A 239%                    N/A            1%            1%             89%

 % of total women as per the annexed    # Reached        43          137              139           380 1080                  NR           NR           NR           NR             NR            785           NR 1658                     NR 1976                     NR 1976                     NR 1404 1404                             23,429
 table for the health education
 campaigns reached in sessions          #Targeted   406              245              575           968 1795                  NR           NR           NR           NR             NR            346           NR 1790                     NR 1449                     NR 1833                     NR   10    10 16,888
 (Target of 70%)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14040 14040
                                        %           11%              56%              24%           39%          60%          N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A           N/A 227%                    N/A           93%           N/A 136%                    N/A 108%                    N/A   %     %   139%
  NR = Not required to report




                                                                                                                                           39 
SOUL output table as per the restructuring periods

                                                               Period 141 (Sep 2008 – Mar 2011)     Period 242 (Apr 2011 – May         Period 3 (Jun 2012 – Feb 2014)
                                                                                                    2012)

                                                                                                                                       Targ
  Indicator                                                    Target       Achievement   %         Target     Achievement   %                 Achievement      %
                                                                                                                                       et

  Number of women enrolled in the                                   7647           2388    31.22        1482          3032   204.59     5967             6562    109.97
  project                                                      (until Dec
                                                                   2011)
  % of total women targeted per six                               11364            7284       64        2833          3032       107    4856             6572     135.3
  months which are enrolled/registered in
  the project (Target of 75%)

 NB: the targets were calculated for the respective periods from the different updates and not the cumulative




                                                            
41
      Represents the period prior to the first amendment to the GA.
42   Represents the period prior after the first amendment till the second amendment to the GA.


                                                                                                  40 
F. Payment Recommended for SOUL and Service Providers Based on Performance Targets Met  

                    Year
                                 2009                2010                  2011                2012               2013
                 Entity
                             1st        2nd    1st        2nd        1st        2nd        1st        2nd   1st      2nd
                 SOUL        missing    1/5    missing    missing    missing    missing    missing    5/5   5/5      3/5
                 USTH        missing    4/5    missing    missing    missing    missing    missing    5/7   7/7      6/7

                    Year
                                 2009                2010                  2011                2012               2013
                 WB
                 Rating
                 SOUL        Moderately        Moderately            Moderately            Moderately       Satisfactory
                             Satisfactory      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory        Satisfactory
                 USTH        Moderately        Moderately            Moderately            Moderately       Satisfactory
                             Satisfactory      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory        Satisfactory
    
G. Project Funding Sources (per period) 
              

                                            Table 4: Project Funding Sources
    


                                                                    Unit       Unit cost      Total

                                                Planned         USD                         6,232,100
                     GPOBA subsidy
                                                Actual                                      3,560,000

                                                Planned         USD                           612,000
                     User contribution
                                                Actual                                        245,310

                                                Planned         USD                           233,100
                     Private financing
                                                Actual                                        169,690

                                                Planned         USD                         7,077,200
                     Total
                                                Actual                                      3,975,000




              
              
              
              
              



                                                              41 
                
H. Education and Awareness Component – Planned and Actual 

                                                                                        % of women in the
                                                                                       target areas reached
                                                                                       by health education
               Period                      Targeted                    Reached              campaigns

     2008+2009(a)                                     1,226                      319                  26%
     2010                                             4,901                    3,851                  79%
     2011                                             2,399                    2,943                 123%
     2012                                             4,290                    5,310                 124%
     2013+2014(b)                                     4,072                   11,006                 270%
     Total                                           16,888                   23,429                 139%




I. Assessment of PDO Achievement

  

                                      Original PDO          Revised PDO           Revised PDO
                                     (2.6 years from       (1.2 years after      (1.9 years after    Overall
                                          start)               original)          first revision)
     1             Rating                   U                      MU                   S

     2       Rating value                    2                     3                    5
                                                               0.41with             2.58 with
            Total disbursed
     3                                  0.57/6.23             cumulative           cumulative         3.56
              US$million
                                                               0.98/6.23            3.56/3.92
               Weight %
         (total disbursed/final                           0.41/3.56%=11%         2.58/3.56%=73%
     4                              0.57/3.56%=16%                                                    100%
         disbursed amount of
              US$million)
              Weigh value                                     3x0.11=0.33
     5                                 2x0.16=0.32                                 5x.73=3.6          4.25
                 (2 X 4)

     6        Final rating                                                                             MS


           A. Note: HU (1); U (2); MU (3); MS (4); S (5); HS (6)




                                                        42 
                                    REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                               Safe Motherhood Voucher Program

           Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation and Support/Supervision Process

           (a) Task Team Members
                                                                                     Responsibility/
                Names                           Title                    Unit
                                                                                        Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation

Carmen Nonay                    TTL                                    GPOBA
Olaf Smulders                   STC                                    GPOBA
Samantha Naidoo IFC             Investment Officer                       IFC     Investment Officer
Salah-Eddine Kandri             Senior Investment Officer                IFC     Sr Investment Officer
Mikael Sehul Mengesha           Procurement Specialist                   WB      Procurement Spec.
Jamal Abdulla Abdulaziz         Procurement Specialist                   WB      Procurement Spec.
Josephine Masanque              FM Specialist                            WB      FM Specialist
Ai Chin Wee                     Senior Operations Officer                WB      Sr Operations Officer
Meskerem Brhane                 Senior Social Development                WB      Sr. Social Development
                                Specialist                                       Specialist
Ghada Youness                   Legal Counsel                            WB      Legal Counsel
Lars Johannes                   Peer Reviewer                          GPOBA     Peer Reviewer

Supervision/ICR

                                                                                 Financial Management
Moad M. Alrubaidi               Financial Management Specialist        MNAFM
                                                                                 Specialist

Samira Al Harithi               Procurement Specialist                 MNAPR Procurement Specialist



                (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
    Stage of Project Cycle                                             USD Thousands (including travel
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                            and consultant costs)
Lending                                                        10.32                             72,219.56
Supervision/ICR                                                55.98                         818,300.88
Total:                                                         66.30                         890,520.44




                                                   43 
                                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                             Safe Motherhood Voucher Program


                    Annex 5. Documents Made Available for the ICR

1. Operations Manual (August 2008).

2. Draft GPOBA Concept Note, January 2007.

3. GPOBA Commitment Document, June 2007.

4. GPOBA Grant Agreement June 11, 2008.

5. Grant Amendment Letters
      i.  March 22, 2011, and
     ii.  May 31 2012 with Restructuring Paper.
    iii.  Revised Disbursement Letter Jan 17, 2013.

6. Aides Memoires and Management Letters (ML)
      i.  AM dated March 30-31, 2010 with ML dated April 15, 2010;
     ii.  MTR AM Sep 25-29 & Oct 16-27, 2010, no ML;
    iii.  Post MTR Mission AM Jan 15-16, 2011, no ML;
    iv.   AM dated October 14-16, 2012 with ML dated Nov. 10, 2012;
     v.   AM (without Annexes) dated Nov 28-29 and Dec. 17-18, 2013, no ML.

7. BTORs – May 2-6 2009.

8. Semi-Annual Status Report GPOBA – Aug 2008, Feb 2009, Aug 2009, Feb 2010, Sep 2010,
   April 2011, Oct 2011, and Aug 2012

9. ISRs – (i) Seq 2 - Dec. 29, 2010; (ii) Seq. 3 – Feb. 20, 2011 (iii) Seq. 4 – Jun. 14, (iv) Seq. 5 - no
   date specified (possibly Nov. 14, 2011 as inferred from next ISR); (v) Seq. 6 - Jul. 10, 2012; (vi)
   Seq. 7 – Dec. 18, 2012; (vii) Seq. 8 - Sep. 23, 2013; (viii) Seq. 9 – Jun. 3, 2014.

10. IVE Reports
    (i)   SOUL Quarterly Invoice Verification Reports - Q14, Q16, Q 16-17, Q 18&19; and one
          draft management letter for period Jan1 - June 30, 2012.
    (ii)  USTH- Quarterly Invoice Verification Reports - Q 14, Q 16, Q 16-17, Q 18, Q 18&19,
          Q20.
    (iii) Final Term Review for SOUL, USTH and SGH - Sep 2008 - Feb 2014

11. Project Completion Report from SOUL October 2014.

12. Others: PAD Maternal and Newborn Voucher Project, December 2013




                                                 44 
     REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Safe Motherhood Voucher Program

        COUNTRY MAP




              45 
