Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7147
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 894-CA)
March 2, 1988
Africa Regional Office
W ~~~This document has a restricted disttiboon and may be used by redipients only in the perfonnance of
their official dudes. Its contents may not othenvise be dWsosed withot Wodd Bankc authoraon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$l.OO - CFAF 378
CFAF 1.00 - US$.00263
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          - African Development Bank
ADF          - African Development Fund
ANEC         -  National Association of Central African
Herdsmen
CAR          -  Central African Republic
CBPP         -  Contagious Beef Pleuro-Pneumonia
EEC          -  European Economic Community
ERR          -  Economic Rate of Return
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -  International Development Association
IEMVT        - Tropical Veterinary and Livestock Institute
(France)
IFAD,        -  International Fund for Agricultural
Development
LCB          -  Local Competitive Bidding
LS           -  Livestock Service
MDR          - Ministry of Rural Development
O&M          - Operation and Maintenance
PMEU         -  Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
RMWA         - Regional Mission in West Africa
SAR          -  Staff Appraisal Report
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FM OFFICA  UU ONLY
TnE WOltD SANK
Wushm^ton, D.C. 20433
USA.
OCe ti OiSW4>Y4i
- 0
March 2, 1988
HENORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs  Project Completion Report on Central African Republic
First Livestock Develoyment Proiect (Credit 894-CA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
Project Completion Report s Central African Republic First Livestock
Development Project (Credit 894-CA)l prepared by the African Region. No
further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has been made.
Attachment
jThis documntn ho a dt dRiobution and may be used by recipients only in the pfoc
of their offcial dutibsIts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Book*uthoriatblL 



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 894-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No
Pr.eface i...........                       ....... 00* e*   1
Basic Data Sheet l        i...............    ......... ii
Evaluation Summary 1 11......................  iii,
I. INTRODUCTION                   ...         ..        .. 1
II.  EFFECTIVENESS ANKD INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION    ...        4
III. IMPLEMENTATION ....     ..       ....     .. ...   6
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE... .                         13
V.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE           ..      .    .20
VI.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS ............... .................  20
VII. LESSONS INCORPORATED IN THE FOLLOWING PROJECTS ... 26
ANNEXES
This document haS a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents rmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CENTRAL, AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 894-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the completion report for the First Livestock Project in
the Central African Republic (Credit 894-CA) for which a Credit of US$2.5
million was approved on March 29, 1979. The legal documents were signed on
April 10, 1979, and the project became effective on July 15, 1980. The
project was cofinanced by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (SDR 1.95 million), the African Development Fund (UCF 3
million), and the European Economic Community's Special Action Account
(US$0.5 million).
The project was the first IDA-financed rural development project
in the Central African Republic. It was to finance livestock development
in the Western part of the country by improving animal health and
production through the, Government Livestock Service. Its original closing
date (December 31, 1984) was extended twice, and the final closing date was
June 30, 1986. All proceeds of the IDA Credit were disbursed.
This report was prepared by the Agricultural Division D of the
Western Africa Region on the basis of a comprehensive completion report
prepared for the Government by outside consultants and delivered to the
Bank in December 1986. Other sources of information for this completion
report were the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2134-CAE) of March 16, 1979,
the Credit Agreement dated April 10, 1979, supervision reports,
correspondence with the Government and the cofinancers, and internal Bank
memoranda as contained in the Bank files.
The project completion report was read in OED, but has not been
submitted to an atdit. Thq draft report was sent to the Borrower and its
agencies on January 5, 1988 for comments. However, none have been received.



CVN_1AL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTSOC PROJECT
(Credit 894-CA)
PROJZCT COMPLETlON REPORT
asic Date Shot
Items                                  IEstimation                        Actual
at appraisal      Actual          as 2 at
Appraisal
Project Cost (USs million)              11.4               13.3           118
Crtu**! Amount (US$ million)             2.5                2.5           100
Date foard Approval                                        03129179       N.A
tbat. at Effectivuness                  07/10179           07115180       N.A
Closing Dote                            12/31184           06130186       N.A
Project Imple. Period tmanth)           65.0               71.0           109
Economic Rate Of Return (1)             22.0               36.0           163
Institutional Performnce               Good               Satisfactory    -
No. of Direct Beneficiaries             8.000              14.000         175
Cumulative Disbureswnts
__ical Years_
80        el      82       83      84      85      86
Apr. lst. (US$ million)      0.1       0.76    1.3     1.82    2.50    -
Actual (US$ million)         -         0.55    1.02    1.45    1.87    2.27    2.5
Actual as S of Estimate      0        72.00   78.00   79.00   75.00    -         -
Final Disbursements June 1986
Aemunt Cancelleds None
Mission Data
No. of     Staff Days  Speciali-  Performance               Types of
DRUJ         Persons    in Field    zation aI Rating bt_   Trend cI  Problems di
0711979          2          14            b-c         1           2       D
0311980          1          11             a          2           2       F
0511980          1           4             a          2           2       A
1011980          1          14             a          2           1       F
0311981          1          14             a          2           1       F
07/1981          1           8             a          2           3       PF
1111981          1           9             a          2           2       F
0711982          2          26           &.&(ADB)    3            2       FDP
10/1982          S          75           a.d.e.f.g   3            1       FDT
05/1983          1           8              a         2           1       D
1011983          4          32      *.c.a(ADB)e(ADS) 2            2       DV
06/1984          3          36           a.c.f        2           2       0
1211984          3          45        a.a(ADB).f      2           2       DF
1211985 1e       1           7             a          2           2       F
07/1986          3          22        a.b(ADB).c      2           2       F
Total                 326
*1   a: Livestock Specislist: bt Economist: c: Financial Analyst;
8: Sociologist; ea Training Specialist; fs Project Officer (IFAD);
gs Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist.
bi   ls Minor Problems; 2: Problem: 3: Serious Problems.
el   1: Improving; 2: Stationary; 3: Deteriorating.
dl   Ft Pinancisl; D- Management; T. Technical; Ps Political: As Others.
el   Appraisal of the follow-up project was carried out in July 1985.
Other Prolect Data
Borrower                       Central African Republic
Executing Agetcyt              Ministry of Rural Development (MDR)
National Association of Central African
Herdsman (ANEC)
Fiscol Years                   January 1 - December 31
N am of Currency;              CPA Franc (CPA?)
Exchange Rate at Appraisals   1 USS - CFAF 220
At Intervening Years:          1 USS - CFAP 372
At Completions                 1 USS * CPA? 3'S
Follow-sw Proiect:             National Livestock Project
Credits                        1681-CA
Date of Board Approvals        April 29. 1986



- {ii -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 894-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The First Livestock Development Project was IDA's first
agricultural operation in the Central African Republic (CAR). It focussed
on a relatively new, but increasingly important activity (at project
completion, 332 of agricultural GDP came from livestock), almost
exclusively in the hands of a traditional pastoral society that uses
Central Africa's open savannahs to graze cattle. It addressed mainly
animal health, the key constraint in this humid tropical environment. The
project was prepared and carried out during and immediately after, a period
of great political and economic turmoil in the CAR. In fact, the relative
absence of Government involvement in the subsector was one of the reasons
fbr the somewhat unusual choice of livestock for the first IDA-financed
agricultural operation in the country. This Project Completion Report
(PCR) is based on a comprehensive completion report prepared for the
*Government by outside consultants.
Obiectives
The main objectives of the project were to develop livestock
production and to improve the nutrition and living conditions of the
M'Bororo and Foulbe herdsmen in the western part of the CAR through (a)
provision of animal health services in that region; (b) strengthening of
the government Livestock Service; (c) introduction and testing of simple
pasture management techniques based on herder associations in a pilot zone;
and (d) studies and surveys on animal health problems.
Implementation
Initial project performance was poor. High turnover of technical
assistance experts and Livestock Service senior staff, complex
administrative and financial procedures involving pari-passu financing by
three different donor agencies and currencies, and by low motivation and
poor training of Livestock Service field staff, caused a virtual absence of
impact on herders in the first two years of the project.
Furthermore, training standards in ti.9 livestock technician
program at the Bouar Technical College did not improve and graduates could



- iv -
not be effectively employed. Finally, the initial site for pilot pasture
management trials turned out to be unrepresentative of pastoral conditions
in the CAR.
The project was therefore reoriented in its third year. The main
responsibility for the animal health component was transferred to the
private National Association of Central African Herders (ANEC), student
enrollment in livestock technician training at the Bouar Technical College
was stopped and replaced by refresher courses for existing staff. A more
representative site was chosen for pasture trials. This reorientation
addressed the main weaknesses in project design and contributed to
achieving the key objectives of improved animal health and herder incomes.
Results
Overall results were satisfactory, especially in the animal
health component. Drug sales to the herders were 5002 over the appraisal
estimate and reached approximately 8OX of the target population. ANEC and
the Livestock Service successfully organized vaccination campaigns against
Rinderpest, restricting losses to a much lower level than in most of the
neighboring countries. As a result, meat production had increased in 1986
by an estimated 8,000 tons per year and producers income on average by CFAF
18,000 per family per year for the poorer strata and CFAF 133,000 per
family per year for the wealthiest group. Progress on the secondary goals
of introducing improved grazing management through the establishment of
herder associations, the retraining of staff, and the rehabilitation of the
Livestock Service has been only partial. Although a few herder
associations are functioning well, they have yet to show that they can
manage rangelands more rationally. No comprehensive effort was made to
upgrade the skills of the Livestock Service staff. The economic rate of
return (ERR) at project completion was estimated at 362 without Rinderpest
and at over 1002 if the project's actions to control Rinderpest were
included. These calculations assume a decreasing impact after project
completion. The ERR is higher than the 222 calculated at appraisal
because, compared with the appraisal estimates (a) the livestock population
proved to be larger (b) the use of drugs and vaccines was higher; and (c)
the producer price of meat was higher.
Sustainabilitv
Although considerable progress was made, the project impact is
not fully sustainable without additional support. First, it was
unsuccessful in developing the Livestock Service into a sustainable
institution. In spite of the higher degree of cost recovery introduced
under the project for vaccinations, the Service remains highly dependent on
external funding for its non-salary operating funds. Second, and although
the Service's management quality has improved considerably, field staff are
still inadequately trained, the organizational structure between
headquarters and field posts is complex, and the approach to extension is



l~~~~~~~~~~~~
1-
- v -
not systematic. However, a more comprehensive institution building effort
is being carried out in the follow-up project.
The project made significant progress in transforming ANEC into a
viable, efficient service organization for CAR livestock producers. While
still requiring further support in finances and administration, and a
broader and more structured base in the field, ANEC can now sustain itself
financially and is becoming an important factor in livestock development in
the CAR.  In addition, the greater involvement of herders in animal health
care started by ANEC could, with local adaptations, become a model for
animal health care delivery in other countries.
k             Lessons Learned
F                        The following lessons have been learned from this project:
(a)  Adequate sociological inputs are of key importance in the
preparation, appraisal, and implementation of projects involving
traditional livestock producers;
(b) Dari passu cofinancing, especially if carried out in different
currency denominations, puts a heavy burden on project financial
administration and should be avoided where well trained financial
expertise is not available.
(c)  veterinary interventions against the most common diseases in the
humid tropics is readily adopted by producers, gives rapid
returns and is a useful entry in gaining producers' confidence;
(d)  after some training, traditional herders can be made responsible
for administering the most commorly used drugs, although careful
monitoring to avoid drug resistance and, if possible, ensure
storage of alternative drugs for use when such resistance occurs,
remain necessary;
(e) resource conservation and more rational range management are
essential for the long-term sustainability of livestock
development, especially in the fragile ecosystem of sub-humid
zones. However, in view of the lack of proven technologies,
emphasis should still be on pilot efforts to identify suitable
tecknologies for the next generation of projects. The approach
followed in this project, combining proven animal health
activities with pilot range management efforts provides a
workable model.
Follow-up Proiect. The follow-up project incorporates many oF
these lessons, giving more emphasis to the institution building actions for
ANEC and LS in the field, to staff retraining, and to the generation of
revenues for the LS.  Sociologists were involved in the preparation and
parallel financing was chosen instead of the pari passu mode.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(Credit 894-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
A.  Sectoral Background
1.        The First Livestock Iroject, IDA's first agricultural operation
in the then Central African Empire, was prepared and appraised in 1977-78
during a period of great internal turmoil in that country. Under Emperor
Bokassa's Agrarian Reform of the early 1970s, government services had been
virtually dismantled, most foreign technical assistance had been expelled
and high level training had stopped.  However, since the change of
Government in 1980, significant progress has been made in establishing an
appropriate policy framework and in redressing the economic situation of
the Central African Republic (CAR).  This is demonstrated by a rise in per
capita GDP from US$230 in 1978 to US$260 in 1984, and by the increase in
the share of agriculture in rotal GDP from 382 at appraisal to 42Z at
project completion (1986).
2.        Livestock production in the CAR is a relatively new', albeit fast
developing, activity. The first Fulani herders entered the CAR with their
cattle in the 19309.  Due to continuous immigration and internal growth.
the national cattle herd grew fast and was estimated at about 900,000 head
at appraisal in 1978, 1.3 million head in 1980 and 2 million head in 1983.
The latter figure stems from the Rinderpest vaccination campaign in that
year and is probably one of the more reliable estimates. Because of this
growth of cattle population, the livestock subsector's contribution to
agricultural GDP, at appraisal estimated at 25Z, had risen at project
completion to 322. By the late 1970s, the country was deficient in meat
and imported an estimated 8,500 tons per year but, as a result of the
increase in livestock population, the country had become self-sufficient at
proje...t completion.
The Fulani cattle herders form a well structured society, clearly
distinct from the rest of the Central African population by its pastoral
vocation, migratory life style, language and religion.  There are two
distinct subgroups, the settled Foulbe and the more migratory M'Bororo.
Their cattle production system consists mostly of nomadic grazing on
communal rangelands. However, the well organized transhumant movements
broke down in the early 1970s when the Livestock Service (LS) became
largely non-functional following the Agrarian Reform. Threat of animal
diseases increased dangerously and herders became regular users of



-2-
tsetse-infested pastures, without being provided with adequate prophylactic
medicines. Moreover, the danger of overgrazing emerged.
4.        In 1974, prior to project preparation, and faced with the
collapse of the LS, the Government formed a National Association of Central
African Herders (ANEC) to address these problems ANEC was to distribute
veterinary drugs, assist in the marketing of cattle, and generally defend
the producers' interests. However, mismanagement of ANEC's funds and a
policy based on free distribution of drugs purchased with the fixed annual
contributions of the herders caused that ANEC was practically bankrupt at
appraisal and had no impact.
5.        The situation in the LS was not much better.  The LS counted 12
veterinarians (plus 15 others studying abroad), 28 higher level and 200
lower level technicians, and numerous part-time or temporary personnel.
Furthermore, 154 students were under training as lower level technicians at
the Bouar Techlical College. It had therefore more than sufficient
manpower, however poorly qualified. Staff training was inadequate, and
staff once graduated could not operate because most of the budget was
allocated to salaries, leaving virtually no funds for operations. Staff
morale was low.
6.        A UNDP-financed livestock project in the western CAR influenced
the design of the new project.  This UNDP project, which ended in 1978,
successfully mounted a vaccination campaign against Contagious Bovine
Pleuro-Pneumonia (CBPP) and established a distribution system for
veterinary drugs. Although drug distribution had been besieged with
administrative problems and mismanagement of funds, the preparation and
appraisal team of the Livestock project perceived the demand for a better
supply of drugs as one of the more important immediate needs and proposed
to further develop this component, recommending a tight administrative
control of the revolving fund to preclude the diversions of funds observed
under the UNDP project. Positive experience in the UNDP project with the
operation of mobile veterinary teams linked to the veterinary laboratory at
Bouar, and with bonus payments to motivate staff, led the preparation and
appraisal teams to propose these elements as workable models for the
project.
7.        Additionally, livestock development activities had been financed
since 1969 by EDF in the eastern and central part of the country, around
Bambari. The main activities concerned the development of a state ranch,
the strengthening of a veterinary diagnostic laboratory in Bambari, and the
construction of markets. These objectives were modified in 1982 to give
more attention to pastoral settlement and to the strengthening of the LS in
that region. Finasly, pastoral settlement was integrated into the
follow-up National Livestock Project in 1986.
B. Proiect Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
8.        The Project was identified by a Bank team from the Regional
Mission in Western Africa (RMWA) in May 1975, prepared by UNDP assistance



i:
-3-
in June 1977 and appraised in February/March 1978. The identification and
preparation missions consisted of livestock specialists, and the appraisal
mission included an economist and a financial analysts however, preparation
was carried out without any sociological input.
9.        A Government request for IDA to finance a public/private sector
ranching enterprise brought the Bank to the livestock subsector. although
on technical and economic grounds the focus was changed almost immediately,
after initial contacts, from ranching to the improvement of the traditiondl
sector. The Bank's decision to select the livestock subsector for its
first agricultural operation in the CAR was mainly based on its assessment
of existing institutional arrangements, which seemed more favorably
inclined towards livestock than any other potential subsectors. With
livestock marketing firmly controlled by thc private sector, the likelihood
of interference in this area was considered to compare favorably with the
heavy Government dominance in the coffee subsector. An involvement in th'.
cotton subsector was ruled out at the time because of the number of donors
already involved, although the Bank became involved in the cotton subsector
lter (Credit 1376-CA, effective January 1984). Additional arguments for
the livestock focus included the low per capita income of the herders, and
the familiarity of some of the ider.tification and preparation mission
members with the local conditions in the subsector. However, in spite of
this familiarity, the lack of adequate services and documentation after the
Agrarian Reform caused the project to be prepared and appraised in a
serious void of basic information on livestock production, livestock
population, main constraints and institutional performance.
C.  Proiect Obiectives
10.       The Project aimed at increasing livestock production to improve
the nutrition and living conditionc of M'Bororo herdsmen in the western
part of the country. The total number of M'Bororo families in the project
area was estimated at 8,000, with a total membership of about 50,000 people
owning, according to the appraisal report, about 700,000 head of cattle.
The Project was, therefore, to cover 75Z of the total livestock population.
11.       Key emphasis was placed on the rehabilitaiton of the LS.  ANEC
was to cease its animal health operation and to center exclusivcly on
social activities. The five key components of the Project comprised:
(a) staffing and equipping the LS to ensure adequate animal health
care for 700,000 head of cattle in the western half of the
country;
(b) training LS staff in applied veterinary medicine and animal
production through systematic courses for existing employees,
upgraded training at the Bouar Technical College for new middle
level staff, and specialized courses for senior staff;
(c) establishing a revolving fund for the purchase of veterinary
products;



-4-
(d) undertaking a pilot project in the Topia region which would test
simple methods of pasture management based on precooperative
herders' associations; and
(el providing funds for studies and surveys on animal health
problems, pasture resources and the economics of traditional
cattle-raising in order to develop a long-term strategy for the
sector, including preparation of a follow-up project.
No major issues emerged during internal processing or at
negotiations.
12.       Proposed Cost and Financing.  At appraisal, total project costs
were estimated at US$11.4 million, of which the equivalent of US$2.4
million was to be borne by the Government (local salaries), the equivalent
of US$0.2 million by the herders, and the balance by external financiers as
follows: US$2.5 million each by IDA and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), US$3.3 million by the African Development
Bank (ADB), and US$0.5 million by the Economic European Community (Special
Action Account). The external funding was to cover all foreign exchange
costs and 54Z of local costs.
II. EFFECTIVENESS AND INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness
13.       The Credit was approved by the Board on March 29, 1979 and became
effective on July 15, 1980. i.e., 16 months after Board approval. The main
causes of this long interval were late recruitment of the Project
Coordinator and delay in the transfer of counterpart fuz4ds to the Project
Special Account. Uncertainty and unrest before and immediately after the
fall of Emperor Bokassa made it difficult to find suitable technical
assistance (TA) experts for the CAR. Thus, the Project Manager, who was
expected to take his post in August 1979, arrived one year later.
Furthermore, the situation of virtual bankruptcy of the CAR at that time
made it very difficult for the Government to fulfill the condition of
effectiveness of transferring CFAF 90 million (US$400,000) to the Project
Special Account. It required the direct follow-up of the Project Manager
and loans from three private banks for the Government to meet this
condition.
14.       Prior to effectiveness, several other TA experts (Financial
Controller, Manager of the Grazing Scheme at Topia, Civil Engineer, and
Head of the Bouar Technical College) were in post but had no means of
operating. A more critical assessment of the availability of operating
funds, of the need to have this TA in post prior to effectiveness, and of
the preferred timing for their arrival would have prevented such an
inefficient use of resources.



-5
B.   Initial Im2lementation Problems
ToPia Pilot Area
15.       The Project's objective in Topia was to settle the nomads and to
familiarize them with improved pasture management techniques. The Topia
area was chosen because it had been the site of earlier (1960s) tsetse
clearance and herder settlement attempts. However. the appraisal mission
with its limited background documentation and no sociologists to help, did
not recognize the new situation caused in this area by the influx of
diamond miners who, by investing part of their earnings in cattle, changed
traditional land use customs. As a result, and in spite of the new
infrastructures (dipping tanks and veterinary posts) under the roject and
a better coverage with veterinary agents and TA, traditional herders did
not settle in Topia.  Furthermore, the site proved very difficult to reach
as improvement of the access road which under the Credit Agreement was the
Government's responsibility, did not materialize. Therefore, as part of
the 1982 Project reorientation (para 21), the site for pilot settlement and
pasture management efforts was changed.
Livestock Service Efficiency
16.       The Project strategy aimed at improving animal health through the
rehabilitation of the LS. The key part of this strategy was entrusted to
LS staff in the field and at sector posts; they were to sell and administer
drugs and vaccines and to advise herders on animal health and pasture
management. To fulfill these objectives, the Livestock Service was
provided with transport and operating funds and the salaries topped up by a
so-called 'motivation bonus". However, this strategy failed because of
personnel and institutional constraints within the Livestock Service.
17.       Still demoralized from the Bokassa period, LS staff showed no
signs of motivation. The bonus payment to motivate staff soon was
perceived as an acquired right, completely divorced from the improved
performance it was supposed to stimulate. Furthermore, the LS could not
bridge the large communication gap between the herder population and LS
staff because of their different languages and ethnic backgrounds. Because
LS staff was so poorly trained, it failed to gain the herders' trust .
Also, because of improper administration of the revolving fund revenues
from drug sale to the producers were not returned by LS staff to Project
Administration. This revolving fund was, therefore, depleted eight months
after its inception.
18.       This situation was exacerbated by poor management in the Ministry
of Rural Development (MDR). Frequent staff changes (65Z of its staff had
changed posts over a 2-year-period), especially in key posts (the Director
General of the Livestock Service and the Head of the Bouar Technical
College were changed in the first two years 4 and 3 times respectively),
thus negatively affecting morale and efficiency. Furthermore, scarce
financial resources were used irrationally (for example, there were 66
drivers for 9 vehicles).



-6-
19.       As a result, the impact of the project was still nil after two
years of implementation. A survey carried out in 1982 by the Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) showed that more than 802 of the
producers had never had any contact with LS staff and that only 52 of all
financing actually benefited the herders. Within the Bank, serious
consideration was given to cancelling the remaining Credit proceeds, but it
was finally decided to attempt a redistribution of project responsibilities
before taking such a step.
20.       The relatively superficial preparation of the Project with no
detailed and up-to-date knowledge of the livestock subsector and no
sociological inputs, contributed significantly to its poor initial
performance. A thorough sociologica' preparation would probably have
unveiled the problemsi related to the Topia pilot area and the communication
gap between producers and LS staff. However, a more thorough preparation
would have been difficult to carry out within the political context of the
period. Furthermore, it would not have averted all the above mentioned
deficiencies since several of them became obvious only through direct
project implementation. The flexible approach taken during project
implementation, whereby the Project was adjusted as experience became
available, seems, therefore, on balance to have been more useful.
C. Proiect Reorientation
21.       The Project was reoriented during several consecutive supervision
missions in 1982 and 1983. Key inputs in this process were made by the
PMEU and by a sociologist (consultant). The pilot settlement operation was
moved from Topia to the more representative area of Bossembele, the
responsibility for drug sales reverted to ANEC whose situation improved
considerably under its new Secretary General, the training component was
reoriented toward practical training for sons of herders, and enrollment of
new students at the Bouar Technical College was halted. Generally, the
project management's and the LS Directorate General's focus shifted to
ANEC. LS staff in the field were left on their own, the "motivation bonus"
was suspended for field staff, and these staff were mobilized only two
months per year for thw Rindnrpest vaccination campaign (para 23).
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Schedule
22.       The Project was implemented over  a period of five years and nine
months instead of the original four and a half years. Major causes for
this delay were:
(a) the deferred effectiveness of the Credit due to the late arrival
of the Project Director and the delayed transfer of government
funds to the Project Special Account (para 13);



7-
(b)  the inappropriate choice of the pilot grazing area and the poor
initial results of the Livestock Service, which required a major
project reorientation two years after Credit effectiveness (paras
15 to 21); and
(c)  bureaucratic procrastination on the issue of an adequate legal
framework for land tenure and herder associations in the pilot
grazing management component (para 2P).
The achievements in physical implementation are detailed in
Annex I and summarized below.
B. Physical Implementation
Animal Health
23.       As a result of the general decline in the quality of veterinary
protection in West AfrLca, a major epidemic of Rinderpest threatened the
Central African cattle population in March/April 1983. Thanks to an
effective and fast response by project management, ANEC, and World Bank
staff (who personally purchased in Cameroon the first cold chain and
vaccination equipment), a successful vaccination campaign was mounted.
Organized by ANEC and the Livestock Service, it kept losses at a much lower
level than in neighboring countries (para 64). The yearly follow-up
vaccinations against Rinderpest and CBPP (since 1984) became a major
project activity which improved ANEC's image and to a lesser extent LS's
image.
24.       Vaccinations against Anthrax and Blackleg were also elt.ciently
organized through ANEC.  T-he arimal health program covered mo:   f the
cattle population at risk and exceeded by far the numbers est    'i at
appraisal. Furthermore, the Project constructed offices and hua'ing for
five veterinary inspectorates, and provided for the necessary cold chain
and other equipment for all vaccinations.
TraininR
25.       At the Bouar Technical College, the initial course duration of 4
years was reduced to 3 in 1982, and more practical training was added. The
enrollment of new students was reduced initially to 15 per year and it
stopped completely in 1985. The demonstration farm was rehabilitated and
two training courses were organized in France for faculty members, causing
a general improvement in the quality of training by project completion. A
further 3 senior technical staff took specialized technical courses abroad
and several senior staff members participated in management training
courses. However, quality of the field staff remained poor. No refresher
courses for existing staff have been organized. The initial implementation
problems and the shift in focus from the LS to ANEC caused project
management and Bank supervision missions to neglect this aspect.



-8
26.       Herders training, introduced as part of the Project's
reorientation, chatiged its target audience as more experience became
available. Initially. sons of herders with a certain amount of literacy in
French were selected and trained for about three months. They were to
replace the disappointing LS staff as private veterinary auxiliaries. A
total of 180 herders' sons were thus trained. However, these young
M'Bororos and Foulbes aspired to a government position and did not
establish themselves as private individuals. Moreover, having lived away
from home for such a long period, their own society rejected them. Since
early 1984, the training format has therefore been changed to short
(one-week) courses in the herders' language (Foulfoulde) given by a small
mobile team in the producers compounds to the traditional chiefs and their
sons. The Project produced adapted extension material. A total of
approximately 1,200 herders thus received training. The initial impact of
that training is prom! ing (para 28).
Sales of Veterinary Medicines
27.       The transfer of the revolving fund to ANEC (para 21) greatly
improved the performance of this component and sales surpassed the
appraisal objective by 500Z. The table below shows how the volume
developed.
Sales of Veterinary Medicine (1980-85)
By the Livestock Service                     By ANEC
Year                     Sales           Year               Sales
--(million CFAF)                       ----(million CFAF)----
1980                        2            1982 (Oct.-Dec.)    32
1981                       13            1983                 55
1982 (Jan.-Oct.,           14            1984                146
1985                316
The Project provided all equipment, vehicles and infrastructure
necessary for this component, including offices, stores and a meeting place
for ANEC. The sales price covered the drug price plus direct distribution
costs, and the Credit provided a subsidy to ANEC (not to the herders) to
create the necessary working capital. Initially, sales were channelled
through ANEC's provincial representatives, but mobile sales trucks were
later increasingly used (para 44).
28.       Drug utilization by herders has been good.  A 1986 survey of PMEU
showed that 902 of the herders correctly used the drug against internal
parasites, 65Z and 852 correctly treated Trypanosomiasis and Piroplasmosis
respectively. Vaccinations against Anthrax and Blackleg were generally
carried out correctly as well. These figures compare favorably with a 1984
PMEU analysis which showed that only 502 of the LS staff could recognize
the main animal diseases and only 202 could calculate the correct drug
dosage against Trypanosomiasis. The frequently expressed fear that herders



-9-
would underdose more than LS staff, and thus induce drug resistance was,
therefore, not borne out by the Project.
Pilot Grazing Management
29.       Progress in this component was much slower than originally
envisaged. At project completion only preparatory work had been
accomplished and actual experience in grazing management by traditional
groups had not yet been acquired. After its initial failure in the Topia
area (para 15), this component was moved in 1982 to the more accessible and
more representative Bossembele area.  Twelve pastoral associations of 5-35
families each were established as a first step toward group formation and
management of communal lands.  They were formed around veterinary
pharmacies and based on voluntary financial contributions by members.
Studies were carried out to determine recommended grazing schemes.  The
administrative and legislative framework to allocate exclusive grazing
rights to associations took a long time to develop, but was finally adopted
in mid-1986. At project completion, it was only applied in one area of
approximately 70,000 ha, benefiting only one group.
Studies
30.       The vdterinary laboratory at Bouar was rehabilitated with
equipment and ve.Aicles. It carried out surveys on calf mortality and
internal and external parasites.  Further studies were carried out on
pasture management, on the socioeconomic development of the livestock
sector, and on the household economics of the M'Bororos. These last two
studies, carried out in 1985, not only contributed significantly to a
better understanding of the traditional Fulani structures but were also
Amportant inputs for the preparation of the follow-up project. The tsetse
and landuse studies envisaged at appraisal were not carried out. Finally,
the feasibility study to prepare the follow-up project was carried out
under financing from the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC).



- 10 -
C. Actual Costs
31.       Project costs are detailed and presented in CFA Francs in ANNEX
II (Table-1). The following table sunmarizes these figures:
Proiect Costs
Actual
Budget           Actual      as 2 of
at Agpraisal      ExPenditures  Budget
US$ million-----
Civil Works                         0.7             0.6             86
Vehicles and Equipment              1.1             1.5            136
Operating Costs                     1.7             2.4            141
Veterinary Supplies                 0.4             1.6            400
Expatriate Salaries                 2.9             2.7             93
Local Salaries                      3.6             4.6            128
Studies                             1.0             0.1             10
Total                            11.4            13.5            118
32.       Operating costs, veterinary supplies, local and expatriate
salaries, and studies show large discrepancies between estimated costs at
appraisal and actual expenditures.   The cost overruns for the operating
costs and local salaries stem mainly from the longer than expected
implementation period and the higher than expected cost of vaccination
because of the Rinderpest outbreak.  The increase in veterinary supplies
reflects the Rinderpest campaign and the success of the drug sale program
through ANEC. These cost overruns were partly financed by (a) the
Government (local salaries); (b) other donors, in pa.ticular FAC who
financed the feasibility study for the follow-up project and FAO who
supported the Rinderpest campaigns; (c) savings in the study component and,
to a lesser degree, reduction of expatriate TA (para 33); and (d)
depreciation of the French Franc (FF) and CFA Franc (CFAF) against the U.S.
dollar (para 34).
33.       Early replacement of expatriate TA by nationals led to an overall
reduction of the expatriate salary costs in spite of the longer than
envisaged implementation period. Central African professionals replaced
expatriate TA two years after Credit effectiveness in the posts of Regional
Director of the LS and Principal of the Bouar Technical College.
Furthermore, a Central African national was recruited as Head of the Bouar
laboratory, instead of the expatriate TA as originally planned.  Wkile
these gains were partly offset by the longer implementation period, total
TA input decreased from 26.5 manyears estimated at appraisal for the 4-1/2
year period to an actual 25.25 manyears over a 5-3/4 year period.
34.       The depreciation of the French Franc (FF) and, consequently, the
CFA Franc against the U.S. dollar provided an important source of cost



- 11 -
overrun financing. From a rate of 1 US$-220 CFAF at appraisal, the CFAF
almost doubled to 437 in 1984 (ANNEX II. Table 2). As most foreign
expenditures were incurred in FF, this depreciation not only affected local
expenditures but a given number of dollars also reimbursed a larger nominal
expenditure in CFAF and FF. Because of exchange rate fluctuations, unit
prices for civil works and TA proved to be accurate in U.S. terms, as the
U.S. dollar appreciation compensated the higher than expected local cost
because of a local price increase of 122 compared with an 8-9Z expected at
appraisal.
D. Disbursements
35.       The following table shows estimated and actual disbursements
compared with the Bank's profile for livestock projects as of November
1985.
Actual and SAR Estimated Disbursement (US$ '000)
Year                Actual         Estimate          Bank             Actual 1/
in   SAR         Profile          Estimate
1979                  0                0                 0                0
1980-1981           2,370          3,020             1,140              78
1982                1,610           1,800            1,140               89
1983                1,460          1,720             1,320              85
1984                1,340          2,260             1,320               77
1985                1,340             -              1,140                -
1986                  400             -                 970               -
1987                  -               -                 800               -
1988                  -                                 530
1989                  -               -                 440               -
TOTAL        8,520           8,800             8,800
mmZr       ==
Thus, although the disbursement rate fell short of appraisal
expectations (which in retrospect seems very optimistic) this distursement
rate was considerably higher than in the average livestock project. At the
expected time of completion (December 1984), total disbursements atmounted
to US$6.78 million or 77Z of appraisal estimate. Disbursement hal slowed
down during the first 4 project years due to processing delays c. sometimes
more than 6 months. This backlog was eliminated in 1985.
E. FinancinR
36.       The project was financed by IDA (US$2.5 million), IFAD (SDR 1.95
million equivalent to US$2.5 million), ADF (UCF 3 million equivalent to
US$3.3 million), and the EEC Special Action Account (US$0.5 million).
External financing was pari passu with a 30:30:40 ratio. The EEC Special
Action Account was used for disbursement of TA salaries prior to
effectiveness.



- 12 -
37.       This complex arrangement with three external accounts in three
different currencies greatly complicated project management and
administration. First, it tripled the administrative workload for every
expenditure, which was already heavy because ADF required full
documentation of all expenses. Second, it hindered local procurement, as
local suppliers disliked split payments for each order, which were
sometimes made three to five months late. Considerable reluctance of local
establishments to supply the project resulted in management problems and
implementation delays. Third, the non-concomittant currency moves between
the U.S. dollar and the SDR (Annex II, Table 2) caused an unexpected
financing gap of US$270,000 at completion, because IFAD's SDR-denominated
contribution depreciatea less than the U.S. dollar and, therefore, yielded
only the equivalent of US$2.23 million. While project management could be
blamed for not having kept an account in each currency for each
contribution, the appraisal mission and external financiers could also be
criticized for designing such a difficult financing arrangement unsuited to
local circumstances. The financing gap was filled by the initial
government contribution of CFAF 90 million (para 13).
F. Procurement
General
38.       International Competitive Bidding (ICB) was to be followed for
contracts over US$100,000 each or US$600,000 aggregate for civil works, for
TA and for a part of the vehicles. However, the civil work component,
initially to cover a significant amount of building for LS and, therefore
under ICB, was subsequently scaled down as a result of project
reorientation. The component was carried out in small lots, initially
under a force account and subsequently under Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB). The force account works were carried out under the supervision of
internationally recruited (1981-1982) and locally recruited (1982-1984)
civil engineers who performed poorly. The LCB procedures adopted later,
with supervision by staff from a local consultancy office, turned out to be
most efficient.
Consultant Services
39.       The procedures followed in the selection of the consultants
aroused controversy because of a heavy Bank involvement compared with an
almost ne3ligible Central African input. Only two of the five invited
consultancy firms submitted proposals for the seven permanent TA posts.
The bids were analyzed by Bank staff, the two firms were retained, and the
best qualified candidates were selected from the two proposals. Both
consultancy firms were notified by the Bank and requested to prepare
contracts with the Government for the employment of the selected TA. While
such close involvement of Bank staff in selection procedures might have
been necessary to expedite processing during this period of administrative
disarray in the CAR, it was perceived by several Central African
authorities as an undesirable pressure from the Bank on the choice of



_ 13 -
consultants. Moreover, the consultants were seen during much of the
project implementation as Bank representatives instead of government
employees, which was a key factor in the less than satisfactory TA
performance during the initial period. A greater government involvement
and lesser Bank involvement would have been preferable.
40.       The desirability of involving two consultancy firms can also be
questioned. First, the different backgrounds of TA staff caused divided
loyalties and added to project management difficulties. Second, the
advantage of being able to select the best candidates from the two
proposals turned out to be rather temporary, within 18 months all but one
of the seven initial candidates had been replaced. Under these
circumstances, contracttng with a single firm selected on its past record
as a good personnel supply source, rather than on the candidates proposed
for this particular assignment, might have been more efficient.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Introduction
41.       The considerable project efforts to strengthen the local
institutions have had partial success. The project played an important
role in improving the management capabilities of senior management in LS
and ANEC. However, little progress was made in improving and broadening
the basis of the two institutions, and long-term self-sustainability was
not achieved. To do so, a longer time horizon and a more structured
approach, as envisaged under the follow-up project, would have been
necessary.
B. The Livestock Service
The Directorate General
42.       After an initial period of high turnover in senior staff,
including the Director General, the management situation of the LS improved
significantly in the second half of the project implementation period. The
Central African national who was appointed Director General in 1983
attended a series of management courses and, at project completion, was
trained in modern planning and management techniques. Other senior Central
African project staff benefited from courses in livestock project planning,
agropastoral, and monitoring and evaluation techniques. This management
oriented training program covered a total of about 24 manmonths. The
Central African staff interacted effectively with TA experts and are now
better equipped to carry out their respective responsibilities.
43.       The Project x%naaement.  Project management was an integral part
of the Directorate General of the LS. The internationally recruited
Project Director had at the same time the functions and title of
co-Director of the Livestock Service. He was assisted by a financial



-14-
controller and a few support staff directly paid by the Credit. The
Project Management Unit was thus a very small unit, whose eventual
disappearance at project completion would not have created a major gap.
The Project Director had, together with the LS Director General, overall
responsibility for the implementation of the project. All expenditures
were authorized jointly by the LS Director and the Project Co-Director.
After the initial period of high staff turnover in both functions (paras 18
and 56), the situation stabilized in 1983 and a good rapport developed
between the two managers.
The Proiect Monitorins and Evaluation Unit (PMEU)
44.       Project management was well supported by the PMEU.  Established
in 1981 on IFAD's initiative. the PMEU consisted of only two Central
African professionals assisted by short-term consultants and a few
enumerators. The PMEU concentrated on time-bound studies on specific
subjects of direct interest to project management; (a' the 1982 study on
the efficiency of the Livestock Service, which showed an almost complete
lack of contact between producers and LS staff and a great scarcity of
drugs due to the non-operational project revolving fund which was a key
element in triggering project reorientation; (b) the 1984 zootchnical
survey that provided most of the basic parameters on which the economic
evaluation of the project was based; (c) the 1984 evaluation of ANEC's
initial distribution system through its provincial representatives, which
resulted in the introduction of a new distribution network via trucks (para
27); (d) the 1984 survey on skills and knowledge of LS staff that triggered
the reorientation of the Bouar Technical College's curriculum toward
refresher courses for existing staff while stopping new enrollment; (e) the
1985 study on drug availability and real sales price, which resulted in the
establishment of ANEC's Coordination Committee (para 51); and (f) the 1986
study on the impact of training courses on the herders, which confirmed the
usefulness of this approach.
45.       The PMEU did not establish a comprehensive data collection system
in several project herds to measure project impact on herd productivity.
Project management correctly argued that such systems. common in cropping
projects, are costly and provide unreliable results in of livestock
production. The mobile nature of the herds, the variety of factors that
affect livestock production, and the considerable time lag before the image
becomes apparent, make the results of such comprehensive monitoring systems
generally unreliable. Thus, while the absence of exact data on project
impact complicates economic assessment, on balance the project management's
decision to restrict PMEU to specific studies is considered correct.
Field Staff
46.       Performance of the LS at field level was poor and did not improve
over project implementation. With the exception of the yearly two-month
vaccination campaign against Rinderpest and CBPP, lower level LS staff had
little to do in the field. After the 1982 project. reorientation, its image
improved but project management's attention shifted from LS to ANEC.  The



_ 15 -
structural weaknesses in the LS were therefore not addressed, and at
project completion LS staff were still poorly trained.  The LS structure
was complex (six levels between field post and Director General post) and
its extension methodology was inadequate. Furthermore, its
salary/non-salary budget ratio (outside direct revenues from vaccination
and external sources) at project completion stood (as in other MDR
services) at 99:l. In view of the Government's overall poor financial
situation, LS's activities would have come to a complete standstill (with
the exception of the Rinderpest campaign, para 47) should external aid dry
up. The project therefore did not succeed in developing the Livestock
Service into a viable, sustained institution.
47.       The annual vaccination campaign against Rinderpest was made
sustainable under the project. The CAR was the first country in the
Western Africa Region to introduce a fee for vaccination against Rinderpest
and CBPP, at CFAF 50 per head vaccinated. This fee covered approximately
802 of operating and maintenance costs for the campaign, and only CFAF 9
million was required from Credit funds'to supplement operating cost, apart
from all staff salaries which came from the Government. A reduction in
allowances for staff (who were paid unnecessarily high indemnities on the
basis of numbers of animals vaccinated) would have been feasible and would
have made these vaccinatidns independent from the Government operating
budget and, therefore, sustainable at project completion. The introduction
of a fee did not seem to make any difference regarding herders'
participation in the vaccination campaigns.  The reduction in vaccination
coverage due to declining interest of the herders as the threat of the
disease wore out and theJimmunity built up, was similar to the decline in
countries with a system of free vaccinations. The argument by opponents of
cost recovery, that provision of free vaccination leads to higher coverage,
was therefore not borne out by the CAR experience.
48.       Staff growth in numbers at the LS during the project period is
shown below.
LS Staff at Proiect Appraisal and Completion
Veterinarians and Zootechnicians                   16                19
Veterinary Students                                15                 4
Higher Level Technicians                           28                27
Middle and Lower Level Technicians                200               280
Students at Bouar College (future
LS Staff)                                       150               15
Support Staff                                     190              400
TOTAL                  600              750
* Figures do not add due to rounding.



- 16 -
49.       Thus, staff growth in the higher technical l1-vel was contained
and the total staff number,(actual staff plus students) decreased. This
was largely a result of the project, initially through a restriction of new
admissions at the Bouar Technical College to 15 students per year, and
after 1984 by stopping new enrollment. As graduates from the College had
the systematic right to a civil service position, these project actions
produced savings representing the salary of approximately 120 civil
servants. The much higher figure in support staff at project completion
might stem partly from poor data at appraisal and partly from a real
increase.
SC.       The Bouar Technical College.  The quality of training at the
College has improved, but only during the last two years of the project.
In the initial project period, the College suffered heavily from frequent
staff changes, poorly prepared teachers and mismanagement of funds,
especially at the demonstration farm. These deficiencies were partly
remedied by additional staff training and by better financial control. The
quality of the recent graduates has therefore improved and the faculty
operates more as a team. Under the follow-up project, the College will be
used exclusively.for the upgrading and retraining of existing field staff,
and the improvements made under this first project will make a valuable
contribution to this retraining exercise.
C.  ANEC
Headquarters
51.       The project strengthened ANEC notably, but more at headquarters
than in the field. Project involvement with ANEC started in 1981, after
the newly elected Secretary General resolved some of ANEC's earlier
problems and gave it new momentum. ANEC became a major partner in the
project after the 1982 reorientation. A modern and functional office
complex with meeting and store facilities was financed from project funds,
and ANEC's financial control was strengthened. Project influence on ANEC
increased with the establishment in early :985 of a Coordinating Committee
consisting of ANEC's Secretary General, the Project Director, and the
Director General of the Livestock Service. This Committee has improved
discipline and control in the drug distribution system. At project
completion, drug sales were completely self-financing and tightly
supervised. Furthermore, ANEC played a major role in constructing
vaccination parks and in organizing herders for vaccination campaigns
against Rinderpest. These positive activities enhanced ANEC's image in the
field and its political influence in Bangui. In 1985, 65Z of all herders
in CAR payed the annual membership fee of CFAF 10,000 (US$30).
Field Level
52.       ANEC's most important problem is its lack of adequate
organization at field level, partly stemming from a lack of herders with an
educational level that would allow them to participate actively in ANEC's
management at field and headquarters level. Although a start has been made



- 17 -
in developing local herder associstions, there are still no structures to
represent ANEC adequately in the field and to transmit its
members aspirations to Bangui. An initial effort to involve the so-called
ANEC's representatives (traditional chiefs in major villages) failed
because of the multiple functions already carried out by these
representatives. An important step in expanding grassroot input to ANEC's
management was made in late 1985 when ANEC's statutes were amended to
increase the representation of herder associations in its General Assembly.
Furthermore, functional l1fteracy and more formal training programs are
envisaged under the follow-up project in order to broaden ANEC's base.
53.       Insufficient attention to equity considerations, poor financial
control of other activities, and strong Government pressure on ANEC to
finance other activities not always related to livestock are other
important issues in the context of ANEC's viability. ANEC's membership fee
is uniform for all herders with more than 30 animals (CFAF 10,000 per
herder, per year); herders with less than 30 animals pay no fees. As found
by the socio-economic study, this procedure is not well understood by some
herders. A more equitable membership fee structure has been proposed by
supervision missions and project management but is opposed by the
influential and wealthy ANEC administrators. Furthermore. the transfer of
the financial administration of ANEC's other activities (non-drug
distribution) from a very rudimentary system under the Secretary General to
a modern system was slow, and expenditures were frequently incurred without
adequate documentation. Pressure exercised by project management and
supervision missions resulted, however, in gradual improvement and the 1984
and 1985 audit reports confirmed ANEC's overall financial statements.
Finally, ANEC is perceived as a rather cash-rich association and is under
continuous pressure from MDR to give financial support to MDR operations;
this, in turn, constitutes 4 potentially dangerous drain on ANEC's
resources. The amendment of ANEC's statutes, which strengthens its
independence vis-a-vis the Government and introduces tighter financial
control over all its revenues and expenditures, is an important measure to
maintain its financial viability. However, careful monitoring is needed to
ensure ANEC's long-term sustainabi'ity.
Herder Associations
54.       A total of 18 herder associations, covering 243 herder families,
were created between 1983 and 1986. Their objective was to facilitate the
introduction of improved grazing management by granting each association
exclusive grazing rights in certain areas. However, the project proceeded
gradually and used the sale of veterinary drugs and other supplies as the
initial focus of group activity. Revolving funds were financed exclusively
with member contributions. Traditional structures were left intact and
groups were formed around the traditional leaders and with members of the
same clan. Both the chief and the stock keeper/pharmacist were trained by
the project under the herder training component. This training included a
very simple accountancy system.



- 18 -
55.       Initial experience with these associations is encouraging,
although not yet conclusive. The total amount in revolving funds more than
doubled each year and increased from CFAF 918,500 in initial contributions
to CFAF 3,337,865 at project completion, thanks to a rapid turnover and
adequate sale margins. In 1985, more than 72 of ANEC's drugs were sold
through these associations. Another 31 associations were created
spontaneously without project involvement, indicating the herders' positive
image. However, this rapid proliferation of herder associations, without
adequate project follow up, caused reduced financial discipline in several
associations. Furthermore, the improved drug availability since June 1985
through better coverage by ANEC's other distribution channels have reduced
the attraction of herder associations as a means of easy aciess to drugs.
As a result, out of a total of 49 associations at project zompletion, 502
funct.oned well, 252 were in financial difficulties and t'e remainder were
no longer active. This trend illustrates the importance of providing a
service that addresses an important need of the herders as the rallying and
consolidating frator of an association. Allocation of grazing rights and
functional lite.3ay a'tivities are expected to fulfill that role under the
follow-up project.
D.   Performance of Consultants
56.       Resident consultants were recruited for the posts of Project
Director, Financial Controller, Training Specialist, and Range Management
and Settlement Specialist and, for the first two years, for Veterinary
Inspector and for Civil Engineer. These consultants were almost
exclusively involved in project implementation. However, their lack of
experience and adaptability, compounded by procurement and scheduling
errors (para 39) and by difficult working conditions caused poor
performance and high turnover in the first three years of implementation.
Thus, during that period the project had three directors, three financial
controllers, three training specialists, and two range management
specialists. No further change occurred after 1983, however, and the
resident TA team at project completion was of high quality and well
integrated into the national structure.
57.       The short-term consultants were to (a) set up a monitoring and
evaluation team; (b) study sociological constraints; (c) prepare a skill
gap analysis and training plan for LS staff; and (d) assist in the
formulation of a pasture management plan. Furthermore, a twinning
arrangement was set up with the French Tropicaj Veterinary and Livestock
Institute (IEMVT) for short-term assistance in laboratory management
instead of the long-term TA originally envisaged (para 33). Four missions
of IEMVT research specialists were carried out under this arrangement.
58.       Performance and impact of these short-term consultants have been
mixed. The sociologist and the monitoring and evaluation specialist,
through PMEU, made an important contribution to project reorientation. The
pasture management specialist prepared a simple pasture management scheme
which formed the basis for the settlement strategy. However, the impact of
the training consultant was practically nil because of a complete staff



. 19 -
change at the Bouar Technical College shortly after his mission. The
inputs of the research scientists were limited; their visits were too short
and failed to motivate and guide adequately the young and inexperienced
Central African scientists.
E. Performance of the Borrower
59.       CounterDart Funds.  With the exception of delay in transferring
its initial contribution of CFAF 90 million into the Project Special
Account, the Government provided counterpart funds (salaries) regularly.
Its contribution was higher than foreseen at appraisal (US$3.7 million
compared with US$2.2 million). Furthermore, the producers, who were
expected to contribute US$200,000 million toward the purchase of medicines,
provided US$1.1 million.
60.       Other Credit Agreement Articles.  The use of project equipment
for non-project purposes, especially vehicles by MDR's high officials, was
a recurrent violation of Section 3.04 b of the Joint Project Agreement.
Supervision missions intervened frequently to restrict this unauthorized
use of equipment and to reduce government pressure on project u',nagement.
Furthermore, the Government introduced only a partial system (Rinderpest
only) to generate revenues for the Livestock Service as required under
Article 4.04 of the original Project Agreement. Later, ANEC complied with
this condition. Finally, the Government did not rehabilitate the road to
the Topia area (para 15), as specified in Article 3.08 of the Joint Project
Agreement. Although project management regularly provided biannual
progress reports of sufficient detail, this periodicity was contrary to the
Credit Agreement which stipulated quarterly reports (Article 4.02 b of the
Joint Project Agreement). However, at no time did the Bank raise an
official objection to semi-annual reports.
I. Bank Performance
61.       The Bank supervisioin missions were carried out regularly and
always involved a livestock specialist and sometimes a financial analyst.
Staff continuity was good since only two livestock specialists were
involved during the whole period of project implementation. Emphasis in
their supervisions was on institutional issues rather than on technical
aspects, as institutional constraints constituted the main stumbling
blocks. The participation of cofinanciers in Bank supervision missions
was, on average, fair. They sometimes played a crucial role, for example,
through the introduction of the Monitoring and Evaluation system which led
to project reorientation. Scheduling problems and staff availability,
however, frequently limited the cofinanciers' participation to a few days
or even precluded it. Besides its role in the reorientation of the
project, the immediate reaction of the Bank's supervision mission to the
Rinderpest outbreak (para 23) was a major contribution to the success of
the project. This fast move resulted in the cont4inment of losses to
acceptable levels and an improved relationship tetween the Bank, the
Government, and the herders.



- 20 -
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
62.       ANEC.  The drug sale component became self-financing over the
project period and yielded a profit of CFAF 46 million (US$150,000) in
1985. For that year, total revenue from sales amounted to CFAF 310
million, whereas the costs incurred amounted to CFAF 183 million for drugs,
CFAF 17 million for materials (mainly petrol), CFAF 20 million for services
(mainly car maintenance), CFAF 11 million for administrative expenses, and
CFAF 8 million for salaries. Depreciation of vehicles and t.'ildings was
estimated at CFAF 25 million. ANEC's other activities reported also a
healthy financial picture. ANNEX III gives details on ANEC's sources and
uses of funds for all activities over the 1982-85 period.
63.       Audits.  Financial audits covering the Livestock Service project
activities were carried out over all project years except 1980. The audit
reports generally confirmed project financial statements, criticizing the
lack of adequate inventories at the end of each fiscal year and poor
internal control. Considerable improvements were noted toward the end of
project implementation. Audits of ANEC's yearly accounts were carried out
for the years 1981-1982 (combined) up to 1985. Because of a change in
audit firm, the 1983 audit covered ANEC's accounts only superficially. The
audit reports fully certified the financial documentation concerning drug
sale operations, but expressed serious reservations on ANEC's other
(outside the project) activities because of lack of justificatory
documentation. Notwithstanding these reservations, the auditor certified
ANEC's 1984 and 1985 accounts.  The audit reports were published about
eight months after the closing of the financial year, i.e., slightly later
than the six months stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS
A. Impact at the National Level
64.       The Project generated substantial economic benefits to the CAR
(ANNEX IV, tables 1 to 11). The success of the veterinary drug sales and
vaccination program, combined with the immediate project response to the
deadly Rinderpest outbreak, significantly reduced mortality, and therefore
increased meat and milk production. As a result of the emergency
Rinderpest vaccination campaigr. organized by the project, losses in the CAR
were limited to only 0.3Z or 6500 head, compared to 7Z in Chad and Nigeria,
where it took six months to mobilize an emergency campaign. The
Goverament's Project Completion Report calculates that meat production
increased at project completion by 8000 ton and milk production by 850 ton
per year, as a result of all animal health activities combined, usirg the
mortality rate in those neighboring countries as the 'without project'
basis. Furthermore, there was an incremental herd growth of 440,000



- 21 -
animals lt altogether resulting in an incremental value of CFAF 5.4 billion
(US$18 million). The resulting Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is very high,
exceeding 10O.
65.       However, the incidental nature of the Rinderpest epidemic, and
the non-repeatibility of the threat, at least for the coming five years now
that the population is immunized, warrants the benefits also to be analyzed
without a Rinderpest outbreak and campaign. In this analysis, the effects
of the other animal health interventions were assessed indirectly, in view
of the impracticality of collecting reliable data on project impact on
mortality or fertility directly (para 44) in the prevailing production
system. The method followed therefore is based on the known number of
treatments, corrected by PMEU data on effectiveness of the applications in
this pastoral environment. Furthermore, it was assumed that project impact
would level off because of the lack of substainability at project
completion. An overview of the number of cattle treated and the
assumptions used is provided in Annex IV-Table 1. In summary, in 1985,
besides the two million cattle vaccinated against Rinderpest, one million
head was vaccinated against CBPP, 600,000 against Anthrax and 200,000
against the less generalized Pasteurellosis. Furthermore, 800,000 head
were protected against Trypanosomiasis and 55,000 calves were treated
against internal parasites.
66.       Incremental production, as a result of the project, (excluding
the effect of the Rinderpest vaccinations) are given in the following
table.
Incremental Production Estimated at Appraisal
and in this PCR in PYS and PY15
PY5 ---------    -------PY15-_------
Appraisal     PCR        Appraisal    PCR
Report     Estimate    Estimate   Estimate
Animals Slaughtered (number)        400       10,430       62,500      5,420
Herd Growth (number)             54,300      440,000      453,000    15,900
Milk Production (tons)            2,000          114       15,000      1,870
Total Incremental Value
(CPA Billion)                   .24           .96        2.18        .42
11        This means that the herd is now 440,000 larger than without
project.



_ 22 -
67.       The differences between the actual and appraisal performance are
caused by a better-than-expected performance in PY3-PY8, and a worse-than-
expected performance after PY10 (as exemplified in the PY15 table) because
of the lack of sustainability after project completion. Milk production is
higher under the appraisal assumptions because of a rather optimistic
assumption about the reduction in the age at calving to 3 years and the
production increase per head.
68.       The ERR excluding Rinderpest was estimated at 362.  This rate is
higher than the 222 estimated at appraisal because of the larger livestock
population (1,750,000 instead of 1,075.000 head), the higher-than-expected
drug and vaccine usage and because of the higher-than-expected producer
price (CFAF 275/kg liveweight over the 1984-86 period instead of CFAF
110/kg). although the latter was partially offset by a much lower carcass
weights than the appraisal report's assessment of the actual weights (160
kg carcass weight instead of 210 kg assumed in the appraisal report).
69.       The CAR has become self-sufficient in meat largely as a result of
the project. Official records for 1985 showed a slight export of cattle
(9,000 head were imported from the Sudan against 15,000 head exported to
Cameroon and Nigeria) compared with a deficit of 8,500 ton of meat at
appraisal. Increased dairy production improved nutrition in rural areas,
but had limited effect on imports. Imported dairy products are processed
products, mainly consumed by urban dwellers, and are not replaced by crude
fresh milk from the traditional sector. Meat prices increased over the
project period -- except in 1983 when markets and borders were closed --
from CFAF 110/kg liveweight to CFAF 275/kg liveweight at project completion
and were, therefore, not affected by increased production under the
project.
D. ImPact at Producer Le4l
70.       The projest has had a positive impact on producer revenue in all
wealth strata. A 1984 PMEU survey showed that 802 of the 14,000 herder
families in the project area purchased drugs from ANEC (502 directly and
30? indirectly through small traders). The 1985 survey showed that the
poorer herders (with an average herd of 25 animals) spent on average CFAF
472 per animal per year, while the richer ones (with a herd of 250 animals)
spent only CFAF 164 per animal per year. The poorest stratum constituted
about 20X of the herder population and the richest stratum about 152.
71.       As a result, total increase in revenue for 1985 was larger for
the richest herder group, although the increase in revenue on a per animal
basis was higher for the poorest group, as shown in the following table:



- 23 -
Total Increase in Revenue
Poor           Rich          Poor as
Herder         Herder        I of Rich
Per Animal Per Year
Increase in meat
(kg liveweight head)                 3.1             1.8       176
Increase in milk (kglday)             0.25            0.24       105
Increase in revenue (CFAF)            731             415        176
Per Family Per Year
Increase in meat (kg, liveweight)      78             570         14
Increase in milk (kg)                   6              77          8
Increase in revenue (CPA?)         18.280         132.832         14
Percent increase in revenue             5              14          -
Per capita increase
in revenue (CFAF)                  3,385          10,887        31
Thus, the poorest stratum has benefited from the project, although not to
the extent of reducing the gap between the rich and the poor. Furthermore,
the slightly higher milk revenue has benefited exclusively women who
customarily receive all income from milk sales. Moreover, the greater use
of insecticides has reduced their tedious and time-consuming task of manual
deticking.  However, these effects are limited and more comprehensive
actions are necessary to reduce existing inequities.  Increased
sedentarization and assistance in cropping (which would benefit exclusively
the poorest group), and more ePphasis on dairy production (use of
concentrates) which would benefit women, as envisaged in the follow-up
project, would contribute more to reducing inequities.
72.       The project had a significant effect on the integration of the
Fulanis into the national economy. ANEC, with its good performance at
headquarters and positive image at field level, is emerging as a strong
political force and is successful in increasing government interest in the
subsector. Moreover, the improved availability of drugs and services at
field level has contributed to reducing the high mobility of the Fulanis,
who, if properly guided and sustained, could bring substantil1 benefits to
the country.
73.       The environmental impact of the project should be considered over
the long-term and will most likely be beneficial. CAR's rangelands are not
yet grazed to capacity, and the increased livestock population as a result
of the project is not an immediate danger to overgrazing or range
degradation. Nevertheless, the project initiated a series of actions to
improve resource utilization through better grazing management and weed
control. Also, important legislative and administrative measures have been
passed to grant exclusive grazing rights to herder associations. These
actions are key steps in improving range management, and while they are not
yet conclusive, they will in the long-term most likely result in a better



- 24 _
overall utilization of resources than in a *without project situation with
uncontrolled grazing.
VII. SUMMARY AND LESSONS LEARNED
74.       The overall project objective of improving animal health and of
increasing meat production and herder incomes has been satisfactorily
achieved. The institution building component failed to develop the
Livestock Service into a sustainable institution, but it did transform the
private herder organization. ANEC, into a viable service organization.
Although still requiring further support in finance and administration and
a broader base in the field to achieve long-term sustainability, ANEC is
now the country's main force in livestock development. Furthermore, the
more liberal and private animal health care system started by ANEC could
become, with local adaptations, a model for animal health delivery systems
in other Western Africa countries.
75.       These positive results were obtained thanks to (a) the
establishment of a highly successful veterinary drug sale system; (b) a
good herder training organization; and (c) a well organized, fast and
efficient vaccination campaign in the face of a major disease threat.
These results came about in spite of major initial implementation problems
following an incorrect assessment of the institutional capacities of the
Livestock Service add ANEC, the uneven performance of TA teams, -nd erratic
government personnel policies, compounded by complicated financial
reimbursement arrangements among the cofinanciers. To resolve these
problems, project management, the Government, and the donors' supervision
missions combined their efforts which resulted in a major reorientation of
the project and subsequently to its success.
76.       While the major project objective was successfully achieved, the
secondary goals of introducing improved grazing management, rehabilitating
the Livestock Service, and training its staff were only partially
fulfilled.  The choice of an inappropriate site at appraisal for grazing
management trials was the main cause for the delay in the introduction of
Improved grazing management. Furthermore, the initial implementation
problems and the shift from the Livestock Service to ANEC in the second
half of the project were key factors in the lack of achievement by the
Livestock Service.
77.       The main general lessons that have emerged from project
implementation are given below.
(a) A more detailed knowledge of the sociological factors affecting
the interaction between traditional herders and government
services would have contributed to better project design.
Similarly, more detailed sociological studies would have shown
the unsuitability of the site selected for pilot activities in
grazing management. These deficiencies could be corrected but at



- 25 -
a substantial cost of funds and time. While the political and
economical turmoil in CAR at the time of project preparation and
appraisal contributed greatly to the lack of detailed
sociological input, this experience underscores the importance of
such a factor in the preparation of projects in the traditional
livestock sector.
(b) Initial project implementation was hampered by the uneven
performance of the TA teams during that period, which was due to
(i) using more than one consultancy firm to prorcure experts for a
small technical assistance component, and (ii) the Bank's close
involvement in the selection process. As a result, the experts
were viewed as Bank representatives instead of government
employees. Furthermore, poor scheduling caused that most experts
arrived several months before Credit effectiveness and thus had
no means to operate. The selection of experts from one firm
only, a more detached attitude from the Bank in the selection
process, and the timely scheduling of the arrival of experts
would have ensured a better start of the project.
!c)  The pari passu finaneing of the project by three cofinanciers,
whose contributions were uade in three different currencies,
proved too complicated for project administration. It also
caused a financing gap at project end because of differential
exchange rates for the various currency units. Financing based
on one currency and simpler pari oassu arrangements would have
facilitated amd improved the financial administration of the
project.
Cd) Since animal health inputs and services are essential to
livestock development in the sub-humid savannahs of Western
Africa where disease incidence is high, and since they are in
high demand by producers who are willing to pay for them, these
inputs are an important reans of gaining the confidence of
traditional herder societies. Moreover, inputs and services
generally yield an early and significant increase in production.
Animal health technology should, therefore, be an important
component in livestock development, particularly in the sub-humid
savannahs.
(e) The fear that laymen use drugs improperly--an argument against
drug administration by laymen--was not borne out by the project.
Herders, after being given instructions on how to apply drugs
generally did it correctly and, on average, b^:tts- th= field
level livestock agents. Privatization and liberalization of drug
sales and use seems, therefore, worthy of recommendations in
livestock development projects. However, it is highly advisable
to (i) monitor carefully the chemo-resistance that might develop
because of improper diagnosis and inadequate dosage, and (ii)
stock alternative drugs should such a resistance occur.



26 _
(f) Other livestock development inputs, especially in grazing
management, still lack proven technologies and their adoption by
herders is slow. However, proper resource management is
essential for the long-term sustainability of livestock
production in the fragile ecosystem of the sub-humid savannahs
and these inputs need to be included on a pilot scale to lay the
basis for appropriate technologies (which protect the environment
on a long-term basis) in the next generation of projects.
Lessons Incorporated in the Follow-up Proiect
78.       The follow-up National Livestock Project (Credit 1681-CA,
effective August 11, 1986) incorporates many of these lessons. It
integrates the project activities financed until 1986 by EDF around Bambari
(para 7) and the secbnd phase activities in the western part of the CAR
into one national livestock project. It retains animal health as its
cornerstone but expands on the grazing management activities started under
the First Livestock Project. Institution building will continue to receive
heavy emphasis. Thus, the follow-up project endeavors to transform both
ANEC and the Livestock Service into viable institutions through a
comprehensive Plan of Action addressing their main institutional
weaknesses. This Plan includes a heavy emphasis on grassroot level
organization in herder associations and regional organizations for ANEC, as
well as an expansion in the services provided by the associations and by
ANEC. For the Livestock Service, it involves a strong retraining component
of existing staff and the introduction of a much more structured extension
approach. It focusses also on the generation of revenues for non-salary
operating expenditures by dedicating an existing cattle market tax to the
exclusive use of the Livestock Service in non-salary operating
expenditures. Sociologists participated in the preparation and appraisal
process. The national project involves four donors, but a parallel
financing mode was chosen instead of the problematic pari passu under the
First Livestock Project. Finally, IDA-financed technical assistance was
procured through onf consultancy firm, thus incorporating several of the
key lessons and expbriences of the First Livestock Project into the
follow-up project.
64CAOl
As87OlPCR



-27 -                       ANNEX I
Table 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Proiect Completion Report
Physical Implementation
Appraisal       Actual
Estimate
Civil Works
Veterinary Centers Built                         16              5
ANEC Headquarters                                -               1
Equipment
Centers and Posts Equipped                      112             180
Veterinary Delivery Systems (see also Annex 4)
Rinderpest Vaccinations ('000/ )               N.A 2/           4,086
Other Vaccinations                              N.A 2/          2,300
Interventions (average/agent/month)            N.A 21             300
Drugs purchase US$ million                      0.3              1.6
Training
Number of Graduates of CTE Bouar 3/             129                105
Livestock Owners                                N.A             1,200
LS Staff at Refresher                           120                -
Higher Technical Training Courses                 6                3
Higher Management Training                       -                 3
Pastoral Oraanization
Association Formed                              N.A              33
Settlement Zones Delineation                     1                2 4/
Association Formed                              N.A                33
l/ Lower level equipment than originally envisaged.
2/  Appraisal report gives vaccination schedules, but does not attempt to
estimate realistic coverage rates, etc.
3/  The objective being to reduce the number of graduates because of
employment problems.
4/ Include the Topia region, which was later abandoned.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(Credit 894-CA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Total Project Costs
19g.-si             1962          -  1681 19          1964                              low              TOTAL
Clvil Works                    26,56906,6.6      10,780,924.6     Sl,96,389.1        ,5620,939.i      84,293,221.0    12,2U,156.6      241,37,717.1
VehMcl. and Equipent       '   94,669,446.0     129,213,847.0    125,783,676.A      73,2a8,246.0      67,160,869.o   484,34,168.9    653,811,241.4
Operating Costs               116,481,569.4     165,215,747.6    157,393,736.0   178,002,446.0       17,964,64.0      6,166,96.0    869,40,6.4
Veterinary Products            52,201,992.0     16,691,1856.0    134,099,gs.0       76,66,5u6.o      120,26,409.0    45,044,717.0      576,464,697.4
Expat.rlet Staff Salary       2s2,604,0as.s     183,183,687.6    119,380,591.9    134,818,459.0      164,519,676.0    62,943,876.0 6        ?9787,617.4
Centrol Africon Salari.s                          1,418,824.0        326,e1o.0     22,846,660.6       38,61.,420.6     1,46,66.0        $2,SSf,63.6
TOTAL                     797,067,671.9     828,814,867.6    858,984,621.0    65,600,116.6    1628,119,14_. _ 452,101,264.0   4,665,227,562.9
Rinderpest: FAO                                                  119,175,276.6      45,664,028.6      87,23j,6".                       21,763,649.6 
Herders                                                                    eo,r7,5so.6       49,274,in.0                       110115,00.6
TOTAL                                                         119,1756,27.0    16,824,628.0       o625.6                           311,790,49.s
TOTAL                         797,657,571.9     628,314,087.6    978,169,797.6    966,624,639.6   1,169,617,410.6   452,191,264.0    ,1,2,5.
Othen                                                                                                                                  261,768,049.
TOTAL                                                                                                                                5,_16,76.9.9
1/ Costs til June 36, 196.  Include. CFAF 9 0I I ton (oevnr_te ctontrlbution to Special Acco_n.
2/ ANEC plus outside contribution.
III



-29-                              Annex II
T-able 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Exchange Rate Variations
(CFAFICurrencv Unit)
YEARS       SDR(1)        USS       ECU(2)       AfDB(3)    AfDB(4)      DM(5)
1980        275.30       211.50      277.7        269.7      298.5       116.2
1981        320.10       271.50      262.0        316.0      291.1       120.1
1982        352.70       322.50      305.0        362.4      333.8       135.2
1983        407.30       381.00      387.3        407.0      374.9       149.4
1984        445.10       437.00      343.5        444.8      409.7       153.5
1985        458.63       446.40      339.82       L65.6      428.9       152.7
1986                     378(l)
1.  Special Drawings Rights
2.  European Currency Unit
3.  African Development Bank Account Unit
4.  African Development Fund Account Unit
5.  German Marc (FRG)



- 30 -
CENtAL AFRICAN REPMUC                               abe  III
NATIONAL LIVESTOM PROJECT                            Table
AiEC'S SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
Sources of Funds                                   2nd a* .19W2   1983       1984        1906
SALES
Drugs                                   82.5       64.9      148.2      816.3
Cottle                                  16.0       80.0        7.7        6.2
TOTAL SALES                                       42.6       84.9      154.3      835.1
PROJECT SU8SIDIES
Construction                                                  55.6       27.6
Equipment                                          12.5        6.3       19.3
Drug                                               49.4       52.9       45.8
TOTAL SUBSIDY                                      0.0       81.9      114.2       92.7
TAXES AND DUES
Trypanecide                             24.9       17.4       19.7       36.0
Cattle MUrket                                      19.,       10.1       14.8
Vaiclnezton                                         3.8        2.8       51.9
Ouos                                    72.6       54.4       03.4      121.0
TOTAL TAXES A14 DUES                              97.5       94.9       95.5      224.8
CARRY-OVER FROM  PREVIOUS YEAR                     6.5       eo.6       78.e       19.8
TOTAL SOlRCES                                         140.6      301.7      487.5      653.5
USES QF FUNDS
Flxed Asset
Lend
Bul Idings                                          3.6        0.2       27.0
Pharset.o                                           0.1       48.6        -
Cattle Park*                                        ,.S       34.0        -
Material and Furniture                   2.4        4.1       18.4        -
Vehicles                                 6.0       27.4        6.6       19.9
Total Fixed Assets                                 6.4       35.7      107.2       46.9
Operational Expenditures
Personnel                                6.8       10.4       21.6       34.2
Ind.nltiet /Travel Allowance             0.5        3.1        2.5        6.4
Office Costs                             0.9        2.2        7.6       12.8
Vehicle Operations and Maintenance       6.2       11.6       32.8       69.2
Building and Maintenance                 0.8        2.2        8.6        7.3
Rent                                     0.9        1.8        0.3        4.4
F llows/Trainers                         0.8                   3.2        1.5
Repr_esetation Expense                   1.2        2.3       12.2       11.7
DOnations                                2.0        3.1       10.1       15.4
Administrative Expense                   0.1        0.3        8.7       10.9
Miscellaneous                            0.4        1.6        0.8       10.1
Total Opoerational Expense                        20.0       44.6      102.6      173.8
Purchaxe
Drugs                                   20.7      108.3      171.8      142.3
Cattle                                  26.6       34.9       29.6       12.3
Total Purchaso                                    47.3      143.2      201.4      164.6
r        ~~~RobWLo
Duos                                                6.1        1.9        0.9
Trypenocide Tax                          0.8        1.8        1.5        2.@
Cattle Market Tax                        3.4        2.9        1.6        0.7
Drugs                                    -          0.4        1.3        8.5
Vaccination                              -          -          -         26.6
Tot l Rebates                                      4.2        6.2        6.5       38.8
Carry-over to following year                      60.0       73.0       19.8      240.7
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS                                   140.5      361.7      437.6      653.6
w:                     _    _ =



- 31 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Benefits
Project benefits came almost exclusively from increased meat and
milk production and from herd growth, due to better animal health as a
result of increased vaccinations and drug utilization. The animal health
package had no effect on carcass weight or quality. The initial livestock
population in the project area which could benefit from these animal health
improvements has been estimated at 1,750,000 cattle. This figure, based on
the 1983 Rinderpest campaign, is considered more reliable than the
appraisal estimate of 700,000 head, or the 1980 survey estimation of
1,075,000 head.  The historical trend in immigration of approximately 4000
cattle per year has been assumed to continue. Attracted by project
actions, an additional 10,000 cattle has been estimated to have entered the
CAR from Chad during the 1983-85 period. Many more cattle have probably
entered the CAR during that period, because of the early availability of
Rinderpest vaccine. However, these herds returned almost immediately
afterward to their countries and brought new economic benefits to CAR.
i;                       The key production parameter affected by project activities is
the mortality rate.  A reduction in the mortality rate resulted in an
increased offtake.  Moreover, especially a reduction inin neo-natal
mortality, increases also the milk production, as the cow continues to
lactate for a longer time, both for her calf and for human consumption.
In the absence of comparative herd data (para 44), the reduction
in the mortality is estimated on the basis of the number of treatments
provided by each of the drugs actually sold, calculated in the following
fashion and under the following assumptions.
(a) All drug sales were categorized according to the main disease
syndrome they are controlling. Actual sale figures of each drug,
grouped in this fashion and divided by the recommended dosage
gives than the total number of livestock units theoretically
treated (Table 1).
(b) This theoretical number of treatments was then distributed over
the different age groups proportional to the incidence of these
main disease syndromes in these respective age groups, as
determined by the projects monitoring unit (Table 2).
(c) Mortality in each age group was then calculated, subtracting the
number of animals treated for each disease syndrome, from the
total mortality figure, after being adjusted for the average
liveweight in that age group.



-32 -                      ANNEX Iv
Page 2 of 2
(d)  Further corrections were made for sub-optimal usage of the drugs.
Based on PMEU figures, it was estimated that 50? of the
treatments were effective, the other treatments were either badly
applied (302) or were sold outside the project area (202).
(e)  Finally, it was assumed that the project impact would be
levelling gradually off to 302 of the 1985 impact in 1991,
because of the lack of sustainability of project activities at
project completion.
The following example demonstrates the method followed. ANEC
sold in 1985 the following number of drugs to control internal parasites,
expressed in treatments for adult livestock units: Ivomec: 3885 P.nacur:
1527 Ranides 2624 Thibenzole: 2824 Vadephen: 16774. Thus, a total of 27648
adult livestock units equivalents were treated against internal parasites
that year. PMEU found that 64Z of the mortality from internal parasites is
occuring in the class of young animals (0-1 year) and 36Z in the class of
1-3 year olds. Thus, a total of 27.648 x 0.64 - 17694 adult livestock
units equivalents were tre.ted, which equals 53300 calves if converted to
the respective liveweights of 250kg for adults and of 83kg for calves. In
that same year, the herd in the project ara counted 344,600 calves, with an
average calf mortality of 28? (Annex VI-3) or 96500 calves died. Data from
the PMEU indicate that 35Z (33775) of these deaths were caused by internal
parasites.  Of the total population, thus 152 was treated (53300 out of
344600). If we assume that the same 15? would benefit the diseased
anima's, then a total of 5200 diseased calves would be treated.  However,
this figure would still be overestimated by 50? because of the ineffective
and outside the project usages indicated before. Thus a total of 2600
animals would be saved.  Total mortality therefore falls from 96,500 to
93,900 and the new mortality rate becomes 27.2? (93,900:344,600). Similar
calculations were carried out for the other main diseases (blood parasites,
anthrax and pasteurellosis) and have resulted in the production parameters
indicated in Table 3.
These production parameters have then been used to calcula:e the
herd composition over the 20-year-period. The main conclusions of '.hese
are provided in Tables VI-4, 6, 10 and 11. Together with the actuel
project cost under the different assumptions, they then form the bt.sis for
the economic analysis and the ERR calculations in Table 8. A special
mention is needed for the Rinderpest situation (Tables 9, 10 and 11),
which, if not controlled would have created a scarcity of milk, and
therefore a sharp increase in the milk price, but also in a closure of the
frontiers and hence a decrease in export possibilities and therefore in the
meat price. These assumptions are reflected in Table 9.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Table 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Number of Animals Vaccinated and Treated
1980      1982         1983          1984        1985
VACCINATIONS
Rinderpest            -         13,006     1,818,318    1,271,018    885,496
CBPP                  -            -           -            35,011    887,000
Anthrax             10,273    133,099        140,146       170,926    600,000
Pasteurellose        1,960      47,059        41,280        57,440    200,000
TREATMENTS
Trypanosomoses*.     9,944      47,125         7,044         6,272    800.000
Helminthoses*        4,180      16.609         3,851         2,859     65,000



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Table 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Hortalitv and Treatments
Worms        Blood           Anthrax         Pasteu-
Parasites                      ellosis
Percentage of age
class killed by
disease: 0-1 year                   35            7              0.5             0.5
1-4 years                  18          17              6.0              1.0
Percentsag  of age
class treated: 0-1 year             64           35              7.0            20.0
1-4 years            36          62             83.0             70.0
Total No. of Animals treated       27648       781000         600000           200000



CoruIL *IUCAJ agmutC
Froduclviety ftrineftre with ptoaetj
WEAR
Conetea                                 0                   2                   3                   4                   5                    9                   10                  it          1.2
Fertility     Live                  mortality     Of ftak.     Mortality    mortality     Of flake     Muitait? -  mortality       Offlake      Mortlity    Mortality      Offiake      Mortaity      Of flake
H at*Lent-                     HaleM Femle  Male Femle !Male Finle  Kale Femal   "AtH       t          1  O1 ale Femalele~3    f3  Mial Finule   fltj !ip     Hle hurmag.  Hlue 1amal   Nola limnl   Noe-t
O        so   70        0-1      28.7  21.7    2.0   0.0  28.4  27.4   26.2  27.2    2.0  0.0   27.5 26.S   26.1  2S.1         2.0   0.0   26.7 25.7   27.4  28.4    2.0  0.0   27.9  26.9    2.0  0.0
0       170  1S0        1-2      15.0  13.0   10.0   0.0  14.8  14.8   14.7 14.7   10.0  0.0   14.1  14.1   13.1 13.1    10.0   0.0   13.6  13.6   14.0  14.0   10.0  0.0   14.4 14.4   10.0  0.0
0       220  200        2-3       7.0  7.0   15.0   0.5   6.8  6.8    6.7  6.7   15.0  0.3    6.1  8.1    5.1  3.1    13.0   0.1    S.6  5.6    6.0  6.0   15.0  0.1    6.4  6.'   13.0  0.3
33.7     270  250        3-4      3.0  3.0   15.0   0.5   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   13.0  0.5    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0    15.0   0.5    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   13.0  0.5    1.0  3.0   15.0  0.3
33.7     350  280        4-S      3.0  3.0   13.0   0.3   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   15.0  0.5    1.0  3.0    3.0  3.0    15.0   4.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   15.0  4.0    3.0  3.0   13.0  2.0
53.?     420  300        5-6      3.0  3.0   30.0   S.0   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   30.0  6.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0    40.0   7.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   35.0  6.0    3.0  3.0   30.0  1.0
53. 7    420  300        6-7      3.0  3.0   45.0   3.0   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   45.0  6.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   $5.0   7.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  1.0   15.0  4.0    3.0  3.0   53.0  8.0
33.      420  300        7-8       3.0  3.0   53.0   7.0   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   515.0  7.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0    55.0   8.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0  $5.0  4.0    3.0  3.0   55.0  7.0
53.?     420  300        8-9      3.0  3.0   35.0   8.0   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   35.0  9.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0    3S.0  11.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   33.0 10.0    3.0  3.0   53.0 30.0
S3.      420  300        9-10      3.0  3.0   53.0  10.0   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   55.0  10.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0    53.0  12.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0  35.0  12.0    3.0  3.0   55.0  10.0
53.      420  290       10-11      3.0  3.0   33.0  12.0   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   55.0  15.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0    55.0  20.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   55.0 20.0    3.0  3.0   35.0  20.0
53.      420  280       11-12      3.0  3.0   55.0  30.0   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   60.0  23.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0    60.0  20.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   60.0 20.0    3.0  3.0   80.0  20.0
53.7     420  276    12 mad up   3.0  3.0   97.0  97.0   3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   97.0  97.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0    97.0  97.0    1.0  3.0    3.0  3.0   97.0 97.0    3.0  3.0   97.0 97.0



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Herd Development vith Prolect but without RSnderpeat
('000 Animals and CFAF Billion)
- ~           0     1      2     3      4        5      6      7       8      9      10    11      12    13    14      IS       16      17     is    19
YEARS
Total Hud           1,750 1,738  1,750  1,764  1,774  1,787  1,74   1,799  1,807  1,817  1.821  1.826  1,828 1,845  1,861  1,875   1,886  1,896  1,905  1,914
luuiputs               0    4        8     1?      16   20.1   24.2   28.3   32.4   36.6   40.8   45    49.7  S3.5   57.8   62.1    66.4   70.7   75.1   79.5
Proiect I_ sait  1/
Arivalas                  0       10     10      10
Ds    oa                                                               10     10   11.6
Total                0    0       10     10   30.2            31.3   21.4   11.5            0      0      0     0      .0      0       0      0        0
Total Herd          1,750 1,742 1,768 1,796.1 1.802.2 1,838.3 1,849.5 1,8U.7 1,850.9 1,853.6 1,861.8 1,871 1,877.2 898.5  918.8  937.1 1,952.4 1,966.7 1,960.1 1,993.5
Totd Offtdc.        210.7 190.41 99.78 2D2.96 205.68  07.73 208.99 38.90 209.15 209.46 210.38 211.42 212.12 214.53 216.82 218.89  220.62 222.24 223.75 225.27
Tot Vain
Offtea 2/         17.88 15.71 16.48  16.74  16.97  17.14  17.24  17.23  17.26  17.28  17.36 17.44  17.50 17.70  17.89  18.06   18.20  18.33  18.46  18.58
(CFAF Rm4G) 
Dea hAafma            140 139.36 141.44 143.69 145.62 147.06 147.96 147.90 148.07 14.29  148.94 149.68 150.18 151.88 153.50 154.97  156.19 157.34 158.41  159.48
Value Dead
AAmls 3/           1.89  1,88  1.91   1.94   1.97   1.99   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.01  2.02   2.03  2.05   2.07   2.09    2.11   2.12   2.14   2.15
(CPAF WI&a)
lUk Pro&ation 4/   34.14 34.32 35.01  35.56  36.04  36.40  36.62  36.60  36.65  36.70  36.86 37.05  37.17 37.59  37.99  38.35   37.99  38.94  39.21  39.47
Vable MILk Sl        2.73  2.75  2.80   2.8S   2.8A   2.91   2.93   2.93   2.93   2.94   2.95  2.96   2.97  3.01   3.04   3.07    3.09   3.12   3.14   3.16
(CFAF BK11G)
Total Vam           22.50 20.34 21.19  21.53  21.82  22.03  22.17  22.16  22.19  22.22  22.32 22.43  22.50 22.76  23.00  23.22   23.40  23.57  23.73  23.90
Of Prohtwtm
(CFAF Kn1is)
1/  Tremd ftidxati  due to dte project,rtUn qfter prolect eupletlm.
FatimEtes of averap 1984-85 price of FM  250/kg hw.                                                                                                     S
3/  At avewe price of fLFA 1331/g 1.v. ar 100 kg lv. 
7   At foUlta   pr&xbtkm per fefsle of 3 years  sl re wit these es vrs
py   0   5   6   7   8   12  13   14
46.0 47.2 47.5 47.8 48.1 48.0 47.9 48.0
5/  At CEAF SD



ANNEX IV
Table 5
- 37 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Costs Without Project
('000 CFAF)
1980       1981        1982       1983        1984       1985       1986 6
VALUE      VALUE       VALUE      VALUE       VALUE      VALUE      FOLLOWNG
Livestock Service
Salaries           202,496    202,496    203,197    202,049    205,000    331,800   332,000
Op. Costs             1,633      1,018       1,021      1,015         824       1,667     1,668
Sub-total             204,129    203,514    204,218    203,064    206,030    333,467   333,668
Rinderpest I/
Ext. Aid                                              126,795      45,654     37,024
Producers                                             126,795      60,761     49,275      6,366
Sub-total                                                           106,325     86,299      6,366
ANEC 2/
Drugs                            1,000       2,000      5,000       5,000      5,000      5,000
Total                 204,129    204,514    206,218    334,859    317,355    424,766   345,034
I/  FAO and French bilateral,aid.
2/   At modest scale on ANEC's own initiative.



aflRAL ARM  RFUW
FWr  -   Rr
Herd D    _vlamit widtt Prject and vidtix   Rr3epest
('000 head)
0      1     2      3      4        5      6     7     8      9      in      11     12     13    14      15    16      17      18      19
laudpm*           0       4     8      12    16       20.1   24.2  28.3-4:  36.6   40.8   45           49.2   53.5  57.8   62.1   66.4   70.7    75.1   79.5
Natimal Herd     1,750  1,738 1.750  1,763  1,774 1,785.0 1,796.0 1,08.0 1,821.0 1,833.0 1,844.0 1.854 1,862.0 1,871.0 1,881.0 1,891.0 1,901.0 1,910.0 1,920.0 1,930.0
Total            1,750  1,742 1,758  1,775  1,790 1,805.1 1,820.2 1,836.3 1,853.4 1,869.6 1,884.8  1,899 1,911.2 1,924.5 1,938.8 1,953.1 1,967.4 1,98D.7 1,995.1 2,009.5
Total Offtake I/  210.7  190.4 192.15 194.01 195.65   197.3 198.95 200.71 202.58 204.35 206.01 207.56  208.89 210.35 211.91 213.47 215.04 216.49 218.06 219.64
Total Value
Offtake 2/     17.88  15.71  15.85  16.01  16.14   16.28  16.41  16.56  16.71  16.86  17.O  17.12   17.23  17.35  17.48  17.61  17.74  17.86  17.99  18.12
(CFAF Bfflin)
Dead Animals       140 139.36 140.64 142.tO  143.20  144.41  145.62  146.9 148.27 149.57 150.78 151.92  152.90 153.96 155.10 156.25 157.39 158.46 159.61  160.76
Value Ded Anmnls 1.89   1.88  1.90   1.92   1.93    1.95   1.97   1.98   2.0D   2.02   2.04  2.05    2.06   2.08   2.09   2.11   2.12   2.14   2.15   2.17
(CFNA BilLin)
Milk PflKtlct    34.14  34.32 34.63  34.97  35.26   35.56  35.96  36.18  36.51  36.83  37.13 37.41   37.65  37.91  38.19  36.48  38.76  39.02  39.30  39.59
(Milk it) 4/
Value MIlk 5/     2.73   2.75  2.77   2.80   2.82    2.84   2.87   2.89   2.92   2.95   2.97  2.99    3.01   3.03   3.06   3.08   3.10   3.12   3.14   3.17
(CPAF Klnlkm)
Total Valu       22,50  20.34 20.52  20.73  20.89   21.07  21.25  21.43  21.63  21.83  22.01 22.16   22.30  22.46  22.63  22.80  22.96  23.12  23.28  23.46
(CFAF Rilion)
1/ Acowxding to RW unvey (see Aim 6- )
2/ At 1984-1985 price of CFAF 275/kg. livawlt.
^   At CFAF 130/kg li_viewlht. Average litvsit 150 kgr. rdy 2/3 cMs=qd.
4/  46.9 It/year for eas fraile over 3 years (OM  Data).
/  At CFAF 80/lt.
e% 1



FW rdOPRWECr
,Mr P~~ 
COSTS WITH PROJECT
1980       1981        19B2       1983       1984        1985        1986        1987       198&       1989       1990       1991 &
VAUJE       VAUIE      VAUIE      VALUE       VAURE      VAIUE       VA1DE       VAULE      VALUF      VALDE      VALUE     FULMWfl
Livestock Service
Salaries         204,496     202,496     203,197    202,049    205,000      331,800    332,000    332,000    332,000    332,000    332,00o    332,000
Opp. Cost          1,633       1,018       1,021      1.015        824        1,667      3,354      6,776      6,776      6,776      6,776      6,776
Sub-total          204,129     203,514     204,218    203,064    206,030      333,467    333,354    338,776    338,776    338,776    338,776    338,776
Ext. FPnaczing       190,168     38M,355     525,053    562,482    594,577      611,324    241,101
Ext. Aid                                            126,7q5     45,564       37,024      6,378
Producers 1/                                                    60,761       49,275      6,378      6,378      6,378      6,378      6;378      6,378
Sub-total                                             126,795    106,325       86,299                 6,378      6,378      6,378      6,378      6,378
ANSCNHE
lrugs 2/            8,019      16,039     100,066     89,404     51,123       80),195    120,000    120,0O0    121.000    90,01on    60,0l0      35,000
ITWAI. GENERAL       40?,316     599,88R     879,337    q81,745    958,055    1,111,285    702,833    465,154    465,154    435,154    405.154    380,154
I  Percent of calves vaccinated each vear.
21  Gradlual decrease because of lack of sistainabilitv. CDSt concerns purchase price of drugs.
.c8



almuL AIRC1 Reic
PFr a       Nvs     ari
Ctu/fawfits Cadatim of Ihda af1,750.0O PAW,  withm* RIm*
0     1        2       3       4      5        6       7       8      9       10    11       12     13    14      IS    16    17        t8    19   VA
C3t vld4 Project  /     402.3  600.0   829.3   981.7   958.1  1,111.3   702.8   465.2   465.2  435.2  405.2  302  380.2  380.2  380.2  390.2  30.2  390.2  390.2 360.2
Ctstu wit Project 21   204.1  204.6   206.2   334.9   317.4   424.8   345.0   345.0   345.0  345.0  345.0  345.0  345.0  345.0  345.0  345.0  345.0  345.0  345.0 345.0
Diffeuc                 198.2  395.4   623.1   646.8   640.7   686.5   357.8   120.2   120.2   90.2   60.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2  35.2
Bhmft vdl Prject    22,500 20,340  21,190  21,53D  21,820  22,03D  22,170  22,160  22,19D 22,220 22,32D 22,43D 22,500 22,760 23,000 23,220 2,40   23.570 23,730 23,900 IS.,
Bwufits wlbcu Projact 22,500 20,340  2D    20,730  20.890  21.070  21,250  21.430  21.630 21,830 22,010 22,10 22,300 22,460 22,630 22,80  22.960 23,120 23.3  23,MG  16.1900
Dlffermis                 0     0        670     800     930     960      920     730     560    390    310    270    220    300    370    420    440    450    450   40 -9W
Qm-fIa,                -198.2 -395.4    46.9   153.2   289.3   273.5   562.2   609.8   439.8  299.8  249.8  234.8  164.8  264.8  334.8  384.8  404.8  4t4.8  414.8        - 585.2
Pate of retnu: 35.9 p. I0
14|



ANNEX IV
-41-                            Table 9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Prolect Completion Report
Herd Parameters in 1983
Age/Class                       ithout Prolect                      With Project
Mortality           Offtake        Mortality              Offtake
(p.100)                              (p.100)
male     Female   Male      Female   Male      Female   Male    Female
0-1 year               !f.T     47.4    XT          UW 07t7           28.7   3T           0.0
1-2 years             25.7      25.7      1741      0.0      15.7     15.7     15.0       0.0
2-3 years              12.0     12.0      Mi.7      1.0       7.2      7.2      22.5      1.0
3-4 years               5.1      5.1      25.7      1.0       3.0      3.0      22.5      1.0
4-5 years               5.1      5.1      25.7      5.0       3.0      3.0      22.5      1.0
5-6 years               5.1      5.1      51.3      8.6       3.0      3.0     45.0       7.5
6-7 years               5.1      5.1      77.0      8.6       3.0      3.0     67.5       7.5
7-8 years               5.1      5.1     90.0      12.0       3.0      3.0     70.0      10.5
8-9 years               5.1      5.1      90.0     13.7       3.0      3.0      70.0     12.0
9-10 years              5.1      5.1      90.0     17.1       3.0      3.0     70.0      15.0
10-11 years             5.1      5.1     90.0      20.5      3.0       3.0     70.0      18.0
11-12 years            5.1       5.1     90.0      51.3      3.0       3.0     70.0      45.0
12 years plus           5.1      5.1     94.9      94.9      3.0       3.0     97.0      97.0
Offtake                  16.7 p.100                            10.39 p.100
Without             With
Meat Price (CFAP) kg l.v                             160                T57
Meat Price dead animals (CFAP|kg)                     85                 92
Milk Price  (CFAP/lt)                                137                 87
Milk Production (/lt/year/female over 3 years)        27.4               43.4



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Herd Development without Project and With Rinderpest (.000 Anials and CFAF Billion)
0           1           2        3        4        5        6        7        6        9        tO       11  -   12        13       14       15       1        17       13      1t
TOTAL NERD                        1,750       1,736    1,750    1,503    1,560    1,594    1,614    1,632    1,649    I,6       i,670    1,675    1,690    1,688    1,700    1,712    1,721    1,7       1,736
IHRI6IAITS
URIALS              0           4           4        4        4        4        4        4        4         4        4        4        4        4        4        4        4       -4        4
EVOLUTION                       0           4       6.2     10.3     14.9    19.3    23.6    27.9         32.2    36.5    40.7       44.0      49      53.2     57.6      62      66.4     70.7      75.2 
IITAL               0           4           0      12.1     14.3     19.9     23.3    27.6      31.9     36.2      0.5      44.7    41.9       53      57.2     61.6      66      70.4    74.7    79.1
TOTAL HERB            1,750       1,742       1,756   1,775.1   1,517   1,578.9  1,617.3  1,641.6  1,63.9  1,665.2  1,701.5  1,714.7  1,723.6   1,733   1,745.2  1,761.6   1,7"7    1,791.4  1,003.7  1,317.1      "
TOTAL OFFTAKE         210.7       190.4      192.15    312.4   165.    172.57   176.77   179.43   191.96   164.19   185.97   197.42   1BB.41   169.42   190.75   192.54   194.34    195.3  197.14   196.61
VALUE OFFTAKE         17.06       15.71       15.65    15.00    13.69    14.24    14.59    14.80    15.00    15.20    15.34    15.46    15.54    15.63    15.74    15.99    16.03    16.15    16.24    16.39
KEmD AUIMILS           140       139.36      10.64   266.27   121.36   126.31   129.38   131.33   133.11   134.92   136.12   137.90   138.64   139.62   140.93   142.24   13.31   144.30   145.37
VALUE DEAD ANINALS    1.89        1.66        I.90     2.26     1.64     1.71     1.75      1.77     1.60     1.62     1.64     1.65     1.66     1.67     1.10     1.90     1.92     1.93     1.95      I.
NILK MDUCTION         34.14       34.32       34.63    20.20    29.06    31.10    31.66    32.34    32.79    33.20    33.52    33.70    33.96    34.14    3.36   3N.70    35.03    35.29   35.33    35.e0
VALUE OF KILK P903.   2.73        2.75        2.77     2.79     2.3S9    2.49     2.55     2.59     2.62      2.66     2.66     2.70     2.72     2.73     2.75     2.76     2.60     2.62     2.84     2.36
JOTA. VALUE           22.50       20.34       20.52    20.05    17.71    10.43    J8.96    19.16  19.42  19.67  19.86 20.02   20.12  20.33 20.37   20.56 20.76 20.91   21.06  21.21
I.- b-



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Herd Model with ProJect and with Rinderpest ('000 Animals and CFAF Billion)
0                      5    6    7                         9    10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!  lj1  12   13   14   15   16   37
CAI liEs              1,750    1,739   1,$so    1,764    1,696    1,720    1,741    11756    16770    l,362    1789    1.794    395    1.12    1329    3641    1852    1362                67319 I01
ARRIVALS                0        4       102      14        4        4        4        4         4        4        4        4        4        4        4                 4        4        4         4
OEPM;TURES              -                          -        -        -       160     95.3        -      10.7       -                          --            -            -        -        -        -
ROlNT                   -        -        0      102.0    256.2   276.0   283.4    2"0.0    135.2   33.6         41.9     46.1    50.3      54.4    56.7      63.1    67.5    71.9    76.2        10.6
CUlllLATIIIE AP         -        4        ?      266.6   270.2   260.0    287.4    134.0   43.0         43.3    41.9
TOTAL HERD            1,750    1,742    1,852   2,030.6   1,956   2,000.0  2,029.4  1,690.0  1,113.9  1,030.9  1,940.1  1,845.3  1,645.3  i,666.4  1,966.7  1,904.1  1,919.5  1,933.9  1,947.2  1,961.6
OFFTAKE              210.70   190.40   209.20   311.62   211.05   226.00   229.21   213.57   204.97   205.61   206.99   207.93   208.52   210.90   213.20   215.16    216.9   219.53   220.03   221.66
VALUE OF TAKE         17.86    15.71    17.27    17.27    39.24    19.65    16.91    17.62    16.91    16.96    17.07    17.15    17.20    17.40    17.59    17.75    17.69    16.03    13.15    16.29
DEAD                   140    139.36   140.16   370.18   156.50   160.00   162.27   151.20   145.11   145.57   146.47   147.21   147.62   149.31   150."   152.33   153.56   154.71  153.71   156."
VALUE OF DEAD         1.99     1.08     2.00     1.57     2.11     2.16     2.19     2.04      t.96     1.97     1.99     1.99     1.99     2.02     2.04     2.06     2.07     2.09     2.10      2.12
,ILt  PRODUCTION      34.14    34.32    36.67    36.15    38.73    39.60    40.16    37.42    35.92    36.03    36.25    36.43    36.54    36.95    37.36    37.70    38.01    38.29    36.55    33.84
VALUlE OF RILK PROD.  2.73     2.75     2.93     3.20     3.10     3.17     3.21     2.9       2.87     2.98     2."      2.91     2.92     2.96     2."      3.02     3.04     3.08     3.11
TOTAL              22.50    20.34    22.20    22.34    23.45    23.97    24.31    22.65    21.74    21.81    21.95    22.06    22.12    22.37    22.61    22.92    23.01    23.16    23.34    23.51
~12'11
------------------------~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*I



nulr u 
, ma uERR
Cat8 8ff8 o 1o7f0I 00 Muid vdtdialawat ole 0
0     1      2        3       4      5       6       7      8      9       10    1t    12    13   14         Is    16   17        18   19   1"mt
(bt idth Poject 1/     402.3  600.0  829.3   981.7   958.1 1,111.3  70.8  465.2  465.2  435.2  405.2  30.2  380.2  38.2  38.2  390.2  3802  36.2  38D.2 3802
Ost dduIAut PrOject/   24.1  306.6  26.2   33e.9  317.4  424.8  345.0  315.0  345.0  315.0  345.0  3e5.0  365.0  315.0  315.0  355.0  36S.0  3s5.0  315.0 365.0
Diffam=      -         198.2  395.4  623.1   646.8  640.7  686.5  357.8  120.2  120.2   90.2  60.2  35.2   35.2  35.2  35.2   352   35.2  35.2   35.2  35.2
bWA1f   Idth Poject   22.500 20.360 22.200   22,340  23,450  23.970  26.310  22.650  21,740 21.810 21.950 22.060 22,t20 22.370 22.610 22,O  23.010 23,10 2330 23.510 U3,.3 
hmnflzu vt   Prject 22,500 20,340 20,52D   20DO10  17,710  18,43D  18,0  19,160  19.620 19,670 19,860 20,0  20,120 2,230 20.3J  20,5  20,760 20,910 21.060 21,20   181.5
Differem                 0     0     1,610    2,290   5,740   5,540   5,431   3,490   2,320  2,140  2,090  2.090  2,000  2.140  2,240  2,260  2,25D  2,270  2,20  2,300 90OK8
C-fln.                -198.2 -3935.4 1,056.9 1,643.2 5,099.3 4,853.5 5,072.2 3,369.8 2,199.8 2,019.8 2,029.8 2,004.8 1,64.8 2,104.8 2240.8 2,221.8 2,214.8 2,234.8 2,214.8    11,369.8
Rate of Return: High
III



ANNEX VI
_ 45 -                        Table 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Proiect Completion Report
Number of Animals Vaccinated and Treated
1980     1982       1983        1984       1985
*           VACCINATIONS
Rinderpest                    -      13,006   1,818,318  1,271,018   885,496
CBPP                          - ?      -          -          35,011   887,000
Anthrax                     10,273  133,099     140,146    170,926   600,000
Pasteurellose                1,960   47,059      41.280     57,440   200,000
TREATMENTS
Trypanosomoses*              9,944   47,125       7,044      6,272   800,000
Helminthoses*                4,180   16,609       3,851       2,859    65,000



11D 136i
NIGR  SJ v r h t   g                                               ._.-    -J                           CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
,UDAN ,---89 '  C                                       jLIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
C H A D                SUDAN                                                                                                       A.O h o ,    tw^oms_
NIGERIA                                                                                                                                   P c-   )  .1     .   w $ -  T op.._,
A                        T~~~~~~~~~oh. - 'talc" m I
4, - /      oi                     2ss                           C  H  A  D        . f,<(X*   >$[ t A C H- -A   pdD  6                           f_o  c.h.5
/                a^"E2(eN  S   CENTRAI AfRlCAN,REPtJBIC    K                                                                                      is.Od.q wds
) CAMEROON                                                                                                        '                                OEhw.oadi
80.9.r  fi                                            lwE
eC I        I                 ,-                                    ? I_
CAME ROON 1                    EPESRPBI                                                  atzEt
i                                                                                                                     CA0                                          *
C H    D 
4.
\~~~~~~~~~~  /        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                    
A l           __________                         ______________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                   Z A IR
Z A I R E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REUB 



IBRD 13643R
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
U,4TRAL iLFMCA                                  ~~~~~~Topta  Pilot Project Area
REKMC                                                                              $1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~201
Soufiday of pilot poect area
---Eustingor'formerly existing) tracks
Accmn tracsi/firebv.aks to be con~strucrnd
wuiiiiimi Ti-eT. barrier..xisting
Ts*-Ts. barrnw.to be created
a    Dipmgetank.exslshog
= z _ h s--;                 -                                       r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Dipping tankl-to b0 eonst8zetd
_ w   .n4st       /                         I                 *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Camp of trooitihnol leader
.                                                       w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Cetholk miunw
W   |                 Irmo    B       o     -     T      e     p    i~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~opi  dbstrict noearies
*/'   l         z       o      r                             '9             9       |  Kt04tR5    J        20a604."Aoa
KILOM\ ST 
PIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          Il
/   SC   H   E  M  E j . '. _ .. \~~~~E 
- s-oo /     \                 ~~~\PILOT  SCH EME                                                                  jj,        -o 
\           Aeg_  30~~Btok*          ^ Atdo t'~             ~_2 
\ </ ~~~~~ialo,*  \o                              *                    -  VE
)          \        'o'                              '                              I              (FR  CN
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wa
A~~~~~
'1                                                      _                                          C 
4.40.                                                                      amp Topio 4S40'
*            ,-4 .o........ -o -
*                                     g                      t/ -- 
*~    .V.n *5 5r \-
-^-40   V                      I                                    XComp ~~~~~        ~       ~     ~    ~~~~~Topio  0    -oX
18                           1 620                         1 6 '                           ;I
FEBRUARY 1988



