Document of
The World Bank                     hE Copr
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repqo No. P-2459-CAE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 16, 1979
This docmt ba a muuced diboo  ad may be  ed by rocilot em_y in the pderfom   of
their offibl duties. Ib eoatts my   t oerwibe be dielsd witdw  Wod Duk atorbition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT                       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1     -                           CFAF 220 1/
CFAF 1,000                =         US$4.55
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF       :   African Development Fund
ANEC      :   National Livestock Owners Association (Association Nationale
des Eleveurs Centrafricains)
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
IEMVT     :   French Institute for Tropical Livestock and Veterinary Medicine
RMWA           World Bank Regional Mission in Western Africa
SEGA      :   National Abattoir Management Company (Societe d'Etat de
Gestion des Abattoirs)
1/ Floating exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Central African Empire
Amounts:                IDA:  US$2.5 million
EEC Special Action Account: about US$0.5 million
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms
Prolect Description:   The proposed project is designed to develop livestock
production and to improve the nutrition and living
conditions of one of the poorest segments of the
population in C.A.E: the M'Bororo herdsmen. The
project would consist of the following four main
components:
(i)  provision of animal health services in the
western half of the country;
(ii)  strengthening of the Government's Livestock
Service;
(iii)  introduction and testing of simple pasture
management techniques, based on herdsmen's
associations in pilot zones; and
(iv)  studies and surveys of animal health problems,
pasture resources and sector development strategy,
including preparation of a follow-up project.
The proposed project would directly benefit the M'Bororo
herdsmen whose average per capita cash income, the
lowest of all subgroups in C.A.E., would increase from
approximately US$120 to some US$150 per year. The
value of the increase in the herd would be US$240 per
family member. The technical assistance and training
provided under the proposed project would also achieve
much needed institution building. The project faces
the risk associated with the C.A.E.'s difficult public
finance situation. However, enforcement safeguards
have been designed within the project to mitigate these
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs                                  US$ million
Foreign      Local       Total
A.   Animal Health                         2.8         4.6         7.4
B.   Training                             0.6          0.5         1.1
C.   Topia Pilot Project                  0.9          0.8         1.7
D.   Studies                              0.7          0.3         1.0
Total Base Cost                      5.0          6.2        11.2
Physical contingencies               0.2          0.3         0.5
Price contingencies                  0.6          0.7         1.3
Total Project Cost                   5.8          7.2        13.0
Taxes                                 -           1.6         1.6
Total Net-of-Tax Cost                5.8          5.6        11.4
Financing Plan:  (net of taxes)                   US$ million
Foreign       Local      Total
IDA                                       1.6          0.9         2.5
EEC Special Action Account                0.4          0.1         0.5
IFAD                                       1.6         0.9         2.5
ADF                                        2.2          1.1        3.3
Government/Beneficiaries                    -          2.6         2.6
Total                                5.8          5.6        11.4
Estimated Disbursements:                            US$ thousands
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
IDA
Annual                                    100     660      540     520      680
Cumulative                                100     760   1,300   1,820   2,500
EEC
Annual                                    40      460       -      -        -
Cumulative                                40      500
Economic Rate of Return:  22 percent on 82 percent of project costs for
which benefits have been quantified.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2134 CAE dated March 16, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
FOR A LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to the Central African Empire for the equivalent of US$3.0 million,
on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Livestock Development Project.
One credit of US$2.5 million would be made from IDA resources. A second
credit of about US$0.5 million equivalent would be made from the EEC Special
Action Account, administered by the Association in accordance with the terms
of the agreement of May 2, 1978 between the Association and the European
Economic Community.  The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) and the African Development Fund (ADF) would both contribute to the
financing of the proposed project with loans of US$2.5 million and US$3.3
million equivalent respectively, substantially on the same terms as the IDA
credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report entitled "The Economy of the Central
African Republic" (Report No. AW 16-a) was distributed to the Board on May 22,
1970. Since then we have monitored the economy with several short missions
and with the help of the IMF. An IMF mission visited the country in October
1978; a Bank external debt mission took place in November 1978. The findings
of these missions are incorporated in this report. A Bank economic updating
mission is planned for FY80.
Economic Potential
3.        Ihe Central African Empire (C.A.E.) is a landlocked country of
620,000 km , with a population of only 1.9 million concentrated in the western
and southern regions. About 25 percent of the inhabitants live in urban areas.
The C.A.E. is listed as one of the 29 least developed countries by the United
Nations and, in 1977, had a per capita income of about US$225. 1/
4.        The C.A.E. has a good development potential with a diversified
resource base. Soils and climate conditions permit the cultivation of a
variety of products including cotton, coffee, tobacco and a number of food-
crops. Rich forest reserves in the southwest are being exploited. Alluvial
diamonds, uranium, iron ore, limestone, traces of cobalt, nickel and platinum
constitute the country's mineral wealth of which only diamonds are exploited.
Sedimentary basins along the border with Chad are being explored for possible
oil resources. The high cost of transport constitutes a natural barrier to
1/   Latest Bank staff estimates.



competing imports and protects import substitution manufacturing while an
extensive system of navigable rivers allows high-valued products, partic-
ularly tropical hard woods, to be competitive on international markets. Under
prudent management, C.A.E.'s resource base could allow the economy to grow
at a moderate but sustained rate well into the end of the century although
the country's remoteness from the sea will continue to handicap development.
Past Performance
5.        In the 1960s, the Government pursued a cautious development stra-
tegy, leaving most economic activities to the private sector. Government
efforts focussed on providing basic social services and stimulating the produc-
tion of cotton to increase exports and provide cash incomes for the majority
of farmers. Favorable weather conditions allowed for a steady increase in
agricultural production. The investment code stimulated foreign invest-
ment in forestry and import substitution manufacturing, while diamond produc-
tion increased after extensive alluvial fields were opened up to small-scale
operators. Until 1969, a private river transport company provided efficient
service along the transequatorial route to the port of Pointe Noire in the
Congo. Under these conditions real GDP grew at 4-5 percent per year from
1965 to 1970.
6.        The economy was stagnant in the period 1970-75 mainly because
of the Government's inadequate economic and financial management, droughts,
the recession in industrial countries and international price upheavals.
An agricultural reform, undertaken in 1970, resulted in the closing of the
regional rural development offices and the departure of expatriate technical
assistants working in the sector. The scarcity of trained manpower seriously
weakened agricultural institutions, while research came to a standstill.
Cotton production declined and coffee production stagnated as smallholders
migrated to diamond fields, plantations were not renovated and marketing
channels became inadequate. Weaknesses in the Government's marketing agency
caused periodic food shortages in urban centers. Agricultural production was
also hampered by inadequate producer prices, unfavorable weather since 1973,
and deteriorating farm to market and trunk roads.
7.        Transport, manufacturing and mining also stagnated.  When the Congo
nationalized the river-rail-port transport system in 1969, C.A.E. reluctantly
followed suit. The new river transport monopoly, the Agence Centrafricaine
de Communications Fluviales (ACCF), undertook an ambitious investment program
to increase transport capacity in line with the expansion of forestry exports.
Management problems, the increased debt burden, poor river conditions and the
depressed state of forestry production after 1974 accelerated the deteriora-
tion of ACCF's finances, and impeded its ability to provide efficient services.
The expansion of manufacturing was hindered by a series of nationalizations
in 1974 and the Government's inability to pay its bills as public finances
deteriorated. Official diamond production declined after 1970 as a result of
the depletion of easily recoverable deposits, intense smuggling activities and
uncertainties generated by the precarious relations between the Government and
foreign-owned companies.



-3-
Recent Improvements in the Economy
8.        As of 1976, the Government's management of the economy started to
improve. Agricultural producer prices were raised following the betterment
of international market conditions. To overcome the persistent institutional
weaknesses in the Government's central agricultural services, a number of
autonomous agencies were established and charged with the management of new
agricultural projects. Under this formula and with the help of foreign finan-
cial and technical assistance, a number of important projects were initiated.
Cotton productivity programs are being pursued by FAC and FED, which will
concentrate extension services in the most viable areas. A new coffee market-
ing agency has been established, which, by judiciously selling the 1976-77
crop forward, was able to avert the adverse effects of the decline in coffee
prices in the second half of 1977.  The country's three stabilization funds
for coffee, cotton and foodcrops were consolidated under a general manager
and control over their resources was withdrawn from the Treasury.
9.        The Government has also made progress in other sectors.  It is
now initiating a large road maintenance project financed by a consortium of
donors, which should help to alleviate internal and external transport con-
straints. With Bank assistance, the Bangui-Bossembele road will improve the
overland transport link to the sea through Cameroon. The Government is also
attempting to interest a private partner in managing the ACCF to improve the
efficiency of river transport on the transequatorial route. The investment
climate is being restored by recent measures, such as the reactivation of
negotiations for the settlement of the 1974 nationalizations, the successful
negotiation of new diamond concessions with foreign partners and the recent
reaffirmation of the Government's commitment to maintain a vigorous private
sector.
10.       Led by the recovery of forestry and the coffee price boom, the
economy started to grow again in 1976, real GDP rising by about 4 percent per
year. Cotton and diamond production also picked up. The improved liquidity
of the economy stimulated demand for manufactured products, transport and
other services and suppliers in the capital are building up their stocks to
avoid the shortages that occurred in 1976 and 1977 owing to interruptions in
river transport.
The 1976-80 Development Plan
11.       The latest version of the 1976-80 Plan calls for expenditures of
about CFAF 132 billion. Top priority is accorded to improving transport in-
frastructure, particularly C.A.E.'s access to the sea. Since the Government
recognizes that the execution of this program will be determined by the avail-
ability of external financing, annual reassessments are undertaken to realign
the plan to available resources. A mid-term report for 1978 indicates sub-
stantial shortfalls in outlays. Should present trends persist, investments
in real terms would only be 10 percent above the CFAF 39.0 billion achieved
in the 1971-75 Plan. The major reasons for this disappointing result is the
lack of realism of the program as initially defined which took little account



of the country's absorptive capacity and the Government's ability to prepare
projects. Recent efforts to improve the management of agricultural develop-
ment agencies and a number of other vital economic services should increase the
country's absorptive capacity and improve its public investment performance.
Public Finances
12.       The persistence of C.A.E.'s public finance problems constitutes an
important constraint to accelerating the growth of the economy. The deterio-
ration of the public finance performance was particularly significant during
1970-73, when the rate of growth of government expenditures (11.3 percent per
annum) was about double the growth in revenues. The trend was arrested in the
following years with the growth of revenues (11 percent) slightly exceeding
the growth of expenditures (10 percent). This, however, was not sufficient
to restore a more balanced public finance situation. Treasury deficits con-
tinued to expand reaching an estimated CFAF 6.7 billion in 1978. Because
domestic and foreign financial sources were insufficient to cover the deficits,
accumulated arrears amounted to CFAF 13.8 billion in 1978 or 73 percent of
revenues for that year. Targets for balancing the budget and reducing arrears
agreed to with the IMF at end 1977 as a condition for a Trust Fund loan, have
not been met.
13.       The growth of revenues in real terms has not been substantial in
recent years, and measures to improve revenues have had limited success.
Because of the depressed state of the economy and increased smuggling activ-
ity, import taxes, which constitute the bulk of revenues, have not increased
enough to stabilize finances.   An IMF tax survey to identify means of
increasing the response of public revenues to economic activity is being
examined by the Government. Recently, the Government doubled the excise tax
on beer to raise revenues earmarked for the Autonomous Amortization Fund,
which is responsible for managing the public debt.
14.       Expenditure growth has mainly derived from a sustained increase
in civil service employment, and high administrative expenses in 1977; the
increase in investment outlays in 1978 is probably due to the recent reactiva-
tion of public aid programs in agriculture and other economic services, and
the resulting increase in local counterpart contributions. To contain expend-
itures and in preparation for a Second Phase Trust Fund program with the IMF,
the Government is looking into ways of reducing the size of the civil service.
Furthermore, to pave the way for better fiscal management, financial institu-
tions are being strengthened. This includes the merging of the Ministry of
the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance which had been separate financial
authorities since 1974, and the establishment of an auditing directorate to
control expenditures. The Government's Treasury accounts are being computer-
ized to monitor tax revenues and improve expenditure controls and budgetary
planning.



-5-
Balance of Payments
15.       Generally, imports of goods and services have exceeded exports since
the mid-1960s resulting in persistent current account deficits. High transport
and distribution costs, up to 40 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports, have
been a major drain on the current account. Since net public and private
receipts of capital from abroad were insufficient to cover the current deficit,
balance of payments deficits prevailed between 1970 and 1975, financed largely
through recourse to the short-term facilities of the BEAC (Banque des Etats
de l'Afrique Centrale), increases in liabilities to the French postal system,
drawings on the IMF gold tranche in 1974, and the IMF oil facilities in 1974
and 1975. In 1976, the current account deficit was sharply reduced owing to
the increase in the value of coffee exports. However, in 1977, as a result of
the rise in imports and despite a 25 percent increase in export earnings, the
current balance deteriorated again.
16.       The good performance of exports was due to the coffee boom and
caused foreign assets to rise from US$3.8 million in 1975 to about US$20
million in 1976 and 1977, or about 3 months of merchandise imports. Foreign
assistance, which rose rapidly from US$10 million in 1971 to about US$40 mil-
lion in 1975, has stagnated since then because of delays in project prepara-
tion and the lack of project counterpart funds from the Government.
The External Debt
17.       Concessional assistance predominated before 1972.  Thereafter, and
particularly during the 1974-76 period, the Government resorted increasingly
to commercial borrowing to meet its investment targets and the country's poor
debt servicing performance further deteriorated. At the end of 1977, the
outstanding external debt amounted to about US$125 million, of which about 75
percent had been disbursed.
18.       In 1974, the Government established the "Caisse Autonome D'Amor-
tissement des Dettes de l'Etat" to manage part of the public debt, while
French budgetary assistance helped meet part of the Government's external
obligations. However, owing to institutional weaknesses and financial
problems, arrears continued to accumulate after 1974. Responding to a
Government request, the Bank recently conducted an external debt survey and
proposes to support the authorities with occasional technical assistance to
help centralize external debt operations at the "Caisse Autonome d'Amortisse-
ment des Dettes de l'Etat" and improve its management. The Government is also
holding bilateral talks to reschedule the debt and restore its credit image.
Development Issues and Prospects
19.       The C.A.E.'s main medium- and long-term development potential lies
in a diversified industrial and smallholder agricultural sector. In realizing
this potential the promotion of exports should be balanced with improvements
in the marketing of foodstuff to the country's growing urban centers. The
difficult access to existing forestry reserves will continue to constrain



- 6 -
forestry exploitation for some time. Long transport hauls to the nearest sea
port constitute the major obstacle to the development of the country's uranium
reserves. To ease transport constraints, much of the development effort
will need to focus on the rehabilitation of the country's neglected domestic
and international road links and the improvement in river transport. To
ensure the supply of skilled manpower for the expanding modern sector, in-
creasing the access to primary education and qualitative improvements in
technical training will remain of major concern. Basically, the acceleration
of the pace of development will depend on the Government's ability to restore
a healthy public finance position and increase its contribution to finance
development projects and recurrent costs. Until this is achieved the C.A.E.
will have difficulty in attracting a higher level of development assistance,
and the Bank role will of necessity remain limited.
20.       It is difficult to restore the confidence of private investors and
official development agencies, and the impact of government measures to stimu-
late the growth of key economic sectors will not be felt immediately. Even
if the Government is able, with the assistance of the IMF, to improve finan-
cial administration, the public sector is not likely to generate suEficient
internal savings to finance a substantial share of a slowly expandiag public
investment program. In view of the cotntry's poverty and uncertain short and
medium-term prospects, donors should extend their financial assistance on
highly concessional terms and agree to finance a high proportion of total
costs of high priority projects including local costs in appropriata cases.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN C.A.E.
21.       Bank Group commitments in thc C.A.E. amount to US$27.9 miLlion in
four IDA credits to help finance three transportation projects and one
education project. The first two highiray projects were completed in 1975 and
1976 respectively, and the Third Highw&y Project is not yet effectire. The
Education Project is well under way. lannex II contains a summary statement
of IDA credits as of January 31, 1979 aLnd a note on the execution of the
Education Project. Although the countiy's difficult financial position and
poor administrative performance have caused delays and setbacks in project
execution, the Government collaborated with the Association in eventually
finding solutions to safeguard the successful implementation of projects: an
exception was the Second Highway Project for which only about 15 percent of
the proposed maintenance program was achieved for lack of Government counter-
part funds.  The Government has taken corrective measures under the Third
Highway Project, and with the assistance of other external donors, initiated a
well-conceived and comprehensive road maintenance program.
22.       The level of IDA lending and the sectoral composition of our lending
program over the last 15 years were largely circumscribed by the country's
poor performance and limited absorptive capacity. The C.A.E. has a good
potential in the fields of agriculture, livestock, and forestry, but our past
efforts at identifying and preparing agricultural projects were frustrated by



-7-
frequent changes in the organization of the agricultural sector. Concentra-
tion of past operations in the highway and education sector, however, was also
justified by the special characteristics of the C.A.E.'s economic situation.
A landlocked country with a small population scattered over a vast territory,
the C.A.E.'s depends for its development on the upgrading and adequate main-
tenance of its international and domestic transport system. Shortage of
trained manpower is particularly critical both in Government services and in
the private sector and improvement of the education system should be given
high priority.
23.       While our highway projects indirectly supported rural development
in areas with good agricultural potential, the pioposed Livestock Development
Project is the first attempt of the Bank Group to deal directly with the most
pressing development needs of the poorest rural areas, in this case, the
M'Bororo herdsmen who have the lowest per capita income in the C.A.E. For
the future, a wide variety of other projects can be envisaged to develop the
cotton producing region, improve coffee production, promote foodcrop and inte-
grated rural development, expand timber production, develop technical educa-
tion, rehabilitate and upgrade river and other transport infrastructure. But
the timing and selection of these operations will essentially depend on the
success achieved in implementing both the recently approved Third Highway
Project--and the all important highway maintenance program tied to it--and
the proposed Livestock Development Project. We are encouraged by the Govern-
ment's initial reactions to the type of institution building.arrangements,
financial measures and policy changes required for these projects, but this
favorable disposition has to be substantiated during project execution before
we can formulate our lending program for the next few years.
24.       From 1971 to 1975, public investments amounted to about US$160 mil-
lion of which domestic resources accounted for 36 percent. The remainder was
supplied by official bilateral and multilateral assistance (European Develop-
ment Fund: 25 percent, United Nations: 11 percent, Yugoslavia: 10 percent).
Outstanding and disbursed IDA credits currently account for 9 percent of the
total debt and 1 percent of the debt service burden. These percentages will
most likely remain unchanged-or will slightly decrease in the next five years.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
25.       The rural sector contributes about 38 percent of GNP and about 80
percent of exports receipts. It also supports about 80 percent of the popu-
lation. Cotton, coffee- and tobacco constitute the main cash commodities.
Sector priorities were assessed in 1975 by the World Bank Regional Mission
in Western Africa (RMWA) and the livestock subsector was judged to have" good
potential for development over the medium term and to be a good starting
point for Bank support of the rural sector in C.A.E.
26.       Livestock is an important resource for the C.A.E.  The country has
about 900,000 cattle, 700,000 small ruminants, 70,000 pigs and 1.7 million
chicken. Herd growth was principally caused by the immigration of pastora-
lists from the neighboring countries (Cameroon, Chad and Sudan). The livestock



- 8 -
industry is almost completely in the hands of 8,000 pastoralist families of
the M'Bororo tribe. After 50 years of transhumance in C.A.E. the livestock
producers were recognized as citizens only in the late 1950s, but lack of
Government support has frustrated attempts to bring them fully into the
economic mainstream.
27.       Although these traditional herdsmen possess sizeable capital assets
in the form of their cattle herd, they have the lowest average income of all
groups in C.A.E. because of their traditional reluctance to treat their cattle
as a fully exploitable resource. Among the M'Bororo, a large herd is still a
status symbol to be passed on to the next generation. Outright sales for cash
are not the main mode of exploitation of the cattle resource and as a result
offtake rates are still limited to about 9.3 percent. Sales are generally
prompted by the need to raise cash to pay taxes and to meet such elemental
needs as the purchase of light equipment, short trips into nearby villages
or to conduct traditional ceremonies.  Milk production is the primary goal of
day-to-day herd management since milk is used as a staple food by the M'Bororo
and is an important source of income. The production and marketing of milk is
managed by the women, who do the milking, sell the milk in the nearby villages,
and use the money earned to support the family.
28.       At present, the major technical constraint on livestock development
is poor animal health. However, there is scope for substantial improvement
since experience shows that in similar circumstances pastoralists have been
receptive to advice given by competent and well organized services. Even
though some evidence of pasture degradation can be found, it does not consti-
tute a serious threat at this point. Nevertheless, if programs are successful
and the national herd grows, availability of pastures may eventually become a
problem if traditional grazing practices continue to prevail. Hence, it will
be necessary to introduce improved methods that will need to be tested for
both technical soundness and acceptability to herdsmen.
Marketing and Prices
29.       Live animals are traditionalLy marketed through local merchants.
Animals are collected until the trader has sufficient numbers to justify pay-
ing a drover to take them to Bangui, the main trading and consumption center.
Prices paid for animals on the hoof currently vary from US$68 equivalent
for a male calf to about US$273 equivajent for a well-formed bull or about
US$1.00 to 1.15 per kilogram of carcass weight. The retail price structure
for meat in Bangui has been studied and the data suggests that traders' and
butchers' margins are not excessive. Beef consumption is about 15 kilograms
per capita (1976 estimates). Despite the relatively large size of the national
herd, social customs have prevented high offtake rates and only some 65 per-
cent of the country's beef consumption is met from domestic sources, the
rest being imported. The socio-economic study proposed under the project
would include an analysis of markets and prices in order to help improve the
marketing system and to increase the off-take rates and the flow of cattle
from the western region to Bangui. This would include investigating the use
of cooperative herdsmen's associations as marketing channels. As these coop-
eratives would be organized with the help of traditional leaders (ardos), the



- 9 -
necessary changes in social customs might be acceptable to the herdsmen.
Furthermore, through improved productivity factors the project is expected to
lead to higher survival rate of calves. As the M'Bororos traditionally prefer
to keep only heifers and cows and accept to trade away male animals, the
increase in male herd is expected to encourage higher offtake rates.
Institutions
30.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for the
administration and development of the livestock industry mainly through
its Livestock Service.  While the Livestock Service is grossly overstaffed
it lacks qualified people and managerial capability and is still suffering
from the mass exodus of expatriate technicians following the 1970 Agricultural
Reform which involved: (i) dissolving the regional and sectoral development
agencies, including the livestock agency; (ii) creating a "National Office
for Marketing of Agricultural Products"; and (iii) nationalizing the
French-operated institute of agronomic and veterinarian research. Most of
the C.A.E. veterinarians currently in service are inadequately trained and
lack apprcpriate field experience. Fu-thermore, because of the poor working
conditions, staff morale is very low: salaries payments are irregular and
funds to finance operating expenditures3 are lacking. The rebuilding of an
efficient institution to organize and manage the livestock industry is there-
fore a prerequisite to any successful aperation in the livestock subsector.
This will be a major goal of the propo,ed project.
31.       Other external donors are also attempting to improve livestock
services. In the eastern region, the iuropean Development Fund (FED) has
undertaken a support program that began with two components: a tse-tse
eradication campaign and the establishment of a ranch to crossbread
trypanosomiasis tolerant cattle; it was due to terminate by end of 1978.
The program has been broadened to cover animal health in general and FED has
agreed to continue financing this program along the same lines as the health
component of the proposed project. In the western region, Bouar, the UNDP has
financed a team of three FAO veterinarians who have successfully established
the nucleus of an animal health service in the region. The initial FAO-UNDP
project covered a 1973-75 campaign against pleuropneumonia. There was no
recorded outbreak of this disease in 1976 compared to 25 in 1974, when the
project just started. A follow-up project was aimed at delivering animal
health services directly to the livestock producers, by supplying veterinary
posts with medicines, materials, and means of transport. The vaccines are
now sold to the livestock owners and the proceeds of the sale are put into a
revolving fund. The experience was well received by the herdsmen and confirms
that, with tight administrative control, an animal health program with appro-
priate cost recovery can be successful in the C.A.E.
32.       In addition to the Livestock Service, the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock supervises the activities of the Clinical Laboratory at Bouar,
the National Livestock Producers Association (ANEC), the National Livestock
Technical College at Bouar, and the state owned slaughterhouse corporation,
the Societe d'Etat de Gestion des Abattoirs (SEGA). The Clinical Laboratory



- 10 -
is a specialized agency which carries out rudimentary tests and examinations,
and prepares vaccine doses from the bulk of supplies imported from the French
Institute for Tropical Livestock and Veterinary Medicine (IEMVT) Laboratory
in N'Djamena, Chad. An FA0-UNDP team is presently managing the laboratory
facilities. ANEC was created in 1974 to carry out activities related to
animal health, livestock production and the protection of producers' interests.
All livestock producers are expected to join ANEC and pay an annual membership
fee of about US$16 equivalent. Part of ANEC's resources are used to purchase
animal health medicines which are distributed to producers free of charge.
ANEC's operations with regard to animal health have been ineffective and its
free distribution of veterinary medicines is at variance with the sound
practice of cost recovery followed--and proven feasible--in the UNDP project.
To correct this inconsistency, the functions of ANEC would be modified, by
December 31, 1980. Most of its activities would be directed to the promotion
of socially-oriented programs (nutrition, public health and adult education)
for its members; the rest of its resources would be used to purchase veterinary
products and to finance a marketing officer, but besides these contributions,
ANEC would cease to intervene directly in the field of animal health (Section
3.09 of the draft Joint Project Agreement). The National Livestock Technical
College in Bouar was established with FED financing in 1969 to train middle
level technicians and thereby meet the needs of the Livestock Service. The
quality of instruction has been poor since most instructors are themselves
recent graduates of this or an equivalent institution. As a result, poorly
trained graduates have swelled the ranks of an already overstaffed Livestock
Service.
33.       All official slaughter in C.A.E. is under the control of SEGA, which
will administer a recently constructed modern slaughterhouse in Bangui. The
slaughter fee, which is presently about US$4 equivalent, is likely to be
increased to US$14 when the facilities become operational. Initial operations
of the new slaughterhouse are not expected to cover operating costs even with
the proposed increase in fee and the FED has budgeted a subsidy of US$1.8 mil-
lion for 1978-80. It is estimated that about 50,000 animals would have to
be slaughtered each year (full abattoir capacity) for the slaughterhouse to
break even. In 1977, the number of animals slaughtered was estimated at about
44,000.
Livestock Development Strategy
34.       Until the early 1970s, Government paid little attention to the
livestock subsector and the resulting absence of a development strategy and
well defined priorities has prevented its considerable production potential
from materializing. Government has recently initiated some actions leading
to the promotion of the livestock subsector, such as the activation of insti-
tutions and programs discussed in paras. 30-33. This appears to be a sign of
Government's concern for the economic and social well-being of the livestock
producers who are among the poorest members of the C.A.E. society. At present,
Government's two most important objectives concerning the livestock subsector
are: (i) to satisfy the country's need for meat and milk through increased
domestic production; and (ii) to improve the nutrition and living conditions



- 11 -
of the livestock producers. To achieve these objectives the following con-
straints would have to be removed: (i) the disorganization and inefficiency
of the Livestock Service; (ii) the existing poor animal health; and (iii)
the trend towards degradation of pasture through overgrazing. The proposed
project would aim at alleviating these constraints.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project would be the initial stage of a program to
develop the full potential of the livestock subsector by increasing the size
and productivity of the national herd, and improving the living conditions
of the herdsmen. The project was identified in November 1975 by the Bank's
Regional Mission in Western Africa (RMWA), which completed project preparation
in November 1977 and discussed it with Government in January 1978. An IDA
mission appraised the project in February/March 1978. A Staff Appraisal
Report entLtled C.A.E. Livestock Develcpment Project - No. 2134-CAE (March 16,
1979) is being distributed separately. Negotiations for the proposed credit
were held in Washington from February 21 to 24 with a delegation from C.A.E.,
headed by H. E. Jean Pierre Le Bouder, Minister of Planning.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The principal objectives of the project are to improve the level of
human nutrition by increasing meat and milk production for local consumption,
to improve the living conditions of M'Bororo herdsmen and to reverse the trend
towards pasture degradation. In order to attain these objectives, the proposed
project would:
(a) provide equipment and support staffing for the Livestock
Service to enable it to carry out an adequate animal health
program for the 700,000 head of cattle in the western half
of the country;
(b) train the staff of the Livestock Service through short-term
courses, the upgrading of the National Livestock Technical
College at Bouar, and on-the-job training of senior staff
working in parallel with expatriate project staff;
(c) undertake a pilot project in the Topia Region to introduce
and test simple methods of improved pasture management and
to establish cooperative herdsmen's associations in pilot
zones; and
(d) provide 44 man-months of consultant services for studies and
surveys of animal health problems, pasture resources and economics
of traditional cattle raising in order to develop a long-term
strategy for the sector including the preparation of a follow-up
project.



- 12 -
Implementation
37.       The project would be executed by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock through its Livestock Service. As the Livestock Service lacks
adequately trained personnel to carry out the project, technical assistance
personnel would be essential to complement and train existing C.A.E. staff.
The following positions would be filled through international recruitment:
(i) a veterinarian with livestock development experience in tropical areas who
would be project manager and co-director of C.A.E.'s Livestock Service; (ii) a
chief accountant/administrative officer responsible for budgeting aad account-
ing and (iii) an "inspecteur principal" of the Livestock Service, western
region, would assist him in these tasks. The "inspecteur principal" would
also supervise the animal health component and would have full responsibility
for the management of all livestock activities in the western regio.a including
the Livestock Technical College and the Veterinary Laboratory at Bouar and the
Topia Pilot Project; (iv) a parasitologist to head the Veterinary Laboratory
at Bouar; (v) an experienced range manager to manage the Topia Pilot Project;
and (vi) a livestock education specialist to be principal of the Livestock
Technical College. The Government has invited consulting firms to submit
proposals for the supply of internationally recruited staff. Furthermore, an
assistant principal of the Livestock Technical College and a marketing officer
would be recruited locally. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA
credit would be that the project manager, the manager of the Topia Pilot
Project and the chief accountant/administrative officer be employed and in
post (Section 5.01 (e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
other internationally recruited staff should be appointed by January 31, 1980
at the latest (Section 3.03 of the draft Joint Project Agreement). Project
activities would be implemented on the basis of annual programs and budgets to
be prepared by the project's management and submitted to IDA for approval at
least three months before the start of the fiscal year with the first budget
and program being submitted no later than March 31, 1980 (Section 4.02 (a) of
the draft Joint Project Agreement).
Animal Health and Production
38.       As stated in paragraph 28, poor animal health constitutes the most
significant technical constraint to herd development in the C.A.E. and can
only be corrected by an improved Livestock Service. Therefore, the project
would undertake to develop an efficient animal health service in the western
region, which would be responsible for the implementation of a comprehensive
animal health program. Once properly trained (para. 41), the staff would
disseminate information on animal production and marketing to herdsmen. Under
the responsibility of the "inspecteur principal", animal health services would
be carried out through sixteen veterinary centers, each headed by a health
officer who would supervise six to eight veterinary posts. To ensure the
protection of the national herd, the service would provide regular treatments
against key contagious diseases like pleuropneumonia, blackleg and pasteurel-
losis. Treatment against these diseases will prevent spread of infectious
diseases and has therefore traditionally been provided free in Africa.
Therefore, herdsmen would not be charged for the costs of vaccines and other



- 13 -
medicines used to combat such diseases.  These services, which should be
regar^ded as a social cost, would be borne by Government which would make
sufficient funds available in advance to the project management for this
purpose (para. 44).
39.       All other medicines would be sold at cost to the herdsmen through
a revolving fund system similar to what was successfully initiated under the
UNDP-financed project. After collecting membership fees from livestock owners,
ANEC would deduct its overhead and other costs, and pass on sufficient funds
to the Project Account for the purchase of veterinary products. An agreed
proportion of membership dues collected by ANEC in each of the four years
of project implementation would be allocated to the aforementioned purchase
(Section 3.02 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
40.       To protect the national herd against the possible importation of
diseases via live animals coming from the neighboring countries (Chad, Sudan
and Cameroon), the Inspectorate for the Central Region in charge of control-
ling animal movements across the borders and two veterinary centers in the
western region would be provided with vaccines, vehicles and trained staff
to keep track of cattle entering or lezving the country.  Other services
in support of animal health and production would also be provided uiader the
proposed project. They would include: (a) reequipment of the Veterinary
Laboratory at Bouar; (b) reinforcement and reequipment of the regional Meat
Inspection Service at Bouar; (c) reactivation of about seven of the existing
eleven dipping tanks; and (d) the commencement of marketing and herd manage-
ment extension services. To help facilitate this latter provision, a marketing
officer's position would be created under the project to help improve marketing
information flow to herdsmen and purchasers alike (Section 3.03 of the draft
Joint Project Agreement).
Training
41.       The timely and efficient implementation of the proposed animal
health and production program would require reorienting and improving train-
ing for livestock technical staff. Training for middle-level technicians
would be undertaken at the Livestock Technical College at Bouar under the
leadership of the livestock education specialist. Currently, about 45 poorly
trained graduates are turned out each year. This output is largely super-
fluous to an already overstaffed Livestock Service. It is estimated that in
the medium-term the Livestock Service would not need to incorporate more than
*           about 15 properly trained staff per year.  Therefore, assurances have been
obtained that the annual output for the four-year cycle for training animal
health agents would be limited to 15 trainees (see Section 3.06 of the draft
Joint Project Agreement).  The mistake would be somewhat higher to foster a
competitive spirit among the students and thus raise the quality of the
graduates. A systematic program of retraining would be initiated for all
existing field staff in the project area. As far as possible the Topia Pilot
Project would be used for the field training sessions. The proposed livestock
development project would also make provision for training of high-level staff
mainly through brief specialized courses in higher institutions in Africa and
elsewhere, as for example in the Institute for Tropical Livestock and Veter-
inary Medicine, Paris.



- 14 -
Topia Pilot Project
42.       Due to the degradation of pasture resources in the northwestern
region, some herdsmen have become semi-sedentary in areas further south which
have abundant year-round grazing but which are frequently tse-tse infested.
A pilot project would be carried out in the Topia zone, typical of these areas,
aimed at: (a) introducing simple methods of pasture management supported by
improvement trials; and (b) testing the feasibility of organizing herdsmen's
associations for the proper management of herd and pasture resources. As it
is not feasible to have full-fledged cooperative organizations right from the
start, the project will begin with pre-cooperative herdsmen's associations
which are a more rudimentary form of association. The pilot project would be
carried out by an experienced range manager (to be recruited internationally)
in cooperation with the traditional chiefs of the herdsmen (ardos) and
ANEC. Statutes for the associations and legislation giving them formal
recognition, as well as exclusive grazing rights in properly defined areas,
would be issued by Government.  The enactment of legislation to enable
the constitution of the cooperative associations, the delineation of grazing
areas, and the allocation for development purposes of these areas to coopera-
tive associations would be a condition of disbursement for the Topia Pilot
Project (para. 3 of Schedule 1 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
Studies and Surveys
43.       The proposed project would include about 44 man-months of consultant
services to carry out a series of key studies and surveys on the livestock
subsector which are essential to define a development strategy.  These include:
(a) a study of the incidence of tse-tse and tryponomosiasis and the elabora-
tion of a tse-tse eradication program as well as a prophylactic program for
trypanosomiasis; (b) a pastoral resources survey by Landsat to identify
erosion areas and potential pasture/grazing areas in the western region;
(c) review of the cattle production and marketing system as discussed in
para. 29; and (d) on the basis of (a) and (b) above and the experience gained
through the implementation of this and Dther ongoing livestock projects,
preparation of a development strategy f3r the livestock sector and identifi-
cation of a follow-up project.
Project Costs and Financing
44.       The total project cost is estimated at US$13.0 million of which
foreign costs amount to US$5.8 million (45 percent). The cost includes excise
taxes estimated at US$1.6 million, but excludes duties on all items imported
for the project, for which the Government has granted an exemption. It is
proposed that an IDA credit of US$2.5 million and an EEC Special Action Credit
equivalent to about US$0.5 million be made to the Government on standard IDA
terms to cover 26 percent of project costs net of taxes. The International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the African Development Fund
(ADF) would contribute US$2.5 million and US$3.3 million equivalent respec-
tively to be disbursed pari-passu with the IDA credit. The Association would
act as Administrator for the EEC Special Action Credit, in accordance with the
agreement between the Association and the EEC and its member states of May 2,



- 15 -
1978. The Association would also act as Cooperating Institution for the IFAD
lona; accordingly the Association would take all action pertaining to project
execution and monitoring except actually disbursing funds which will be
done by IFAD on advice from the Association (see Sections 5.01(a) and 2.05(a)
and (b) of the draft Joint Project Agreements). Together, IDA, EEC, IFAD and
ADF would cover 100 percent of the foreign exchange component (US$5.8 million)
and 54 percent of the local costs (US$3.0 million) net of taxes. The remain-
ing project costs would be contributed by beneficiaries and Government (US$2.6
million). Government would also cover the cost of excise taxes estimated at
US$1.6 million. Government's contribution to local salaries and to the
purchase of veterinary products would be deposited in advance into a Project
Account to be managed by the co-director of the Livestock Service. Monthly
deposits should be made at least five days before the end of the month con-
cerned for the payment of salaries of local staff involved in carrying out the
project during the month (Section 3.02(ii) of the draft Joint Project Agree-
ment). A part of the Project Account would be operated as a revolving fund
for purchase of medicines and vaccines. The part of the contributions from
herdsmen to ANEC to be used to purchase these items would also be paid into
this part of the Project Account (see Section 3.02(ii) of the draft Joint
Project Agreement). The establishment of such an account as well as an
initial Government deposit therein of CFAF 90 million equivalent to about
US$409,000 would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (see
Section 5.01 (f) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Recovery
45.       Experience with similar projects in the region indicates that in the
early stages of development there is limited scope for the recovery of costs
from beneficiaries who are mainly traditional pastoralists. This appears to
be also true for C.A.E. at the present time. To the extent that herdsmen are
beginning to experience tangible results from improved veterinary services, it
is judged possible that they would pay for the drugs and medicines needed to
treat their herds, save for vaccines against epizootic diseases which would
be provided free of charge as is customary. It is not considered appropriate
at this stage to attempt recovery of other costs associated with the animal
health sub-project. Given the experimental nature of the Topia Pilot sub-
project, participating herdsmen would not be charged for the service they
receive, save the cost of veterinary drugs as in the rest of the project.
Thus, by 1985, after project implementation, the animal health and Topia Pilot
sub-projects would generate recurrent costs of about US$1.1 million per year
(in 1979 prices). In addition, the Livestock Technical College would also
require continued funding by the Government, estimated at about US$123,000
per year. However, the proposed studies would include a review of the entire
system of cattle husbandry and marketing in order to identify means by which
some of the increase in benefits from the project could be effectively used to
help defray recurrent costs.
46.       While Government agrees on the principle of cost recovery, it con-
siders it might be difficult at this stage to elaborate a detailed timetable
of the steps to be taken to implement it. Until all pastoralists are aware
of the benefits to be obtained flexibility would be necessary as regards full



- 16 -
cost recovery. Assurances have been obtained that, by December 31, 1983,
Government would propose a system acceptable to IDA designed to yield revenue
aimed inter alia at alleviating the financial burden of maintaining the
Livestock Service (Section 4.04 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).   This
system could include such direct taxes as fees for the use of dipping tanks,
charges for the administration of vaccines and taxes on live cattle sales, in
addition to general and indirect fiscal instruments.
Procurement and Disbursements
47.       Except for items specified below, procurement would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank Group Guidelines.
ICB would involve civil works, vehicles and equipment for a total of about
US$2.4 million. In evaluating bids for civil works, local contractors would
be allowed a 7.5 percent preference. To the extent feasible, purchases of
vehicles and equipment would be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to
permit bulk procurement. Locally manufactured goods would be allowed a
preference of 15 percent or the level of applicable import duty, whichever
is lower, when comparing domestic with foreign bids. Contracts for goods and
works estimated to cost US$100,000 equLvalent or less, which would not cumu-
latively exceed US$0.6 million and would not be large enough to attract inter-
national bids, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding and
in accordance with procedures acceptabLe to IDA and IFAD. Expatriate staff
and consulting services costing about IJS$3.3 million would be obtained
according to IDA's Guidelines for Consulting Services.
48.       The proceeds of the EEC Special Action Credit would be disbursed
against 100 percent of the expatriate staff salaries until fully drawn down.
The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed on the following
basis (net of taxes):
(i) 30 percent of the total cost of civil works for a total
of US$210,000;
(ii) 30 percent of the total cost of vehicles and equipment
for a total of US$330,000;
(iii)  30 percent of expenditures for operating costs and
maintenance for a total of US$480,000;
(iv) 10 percent of the total cost of veterinary products
for a total of US$30,000;
(v) 30 percent of the balance of expatriate staff salaries
(after disbursements of the funds of the EEC Special
Action Credit) for a total of US$630,000;
(vi)  8 percent of the cost of local staff salaries for a total
of US$270,000; and
(vii)  30 percent of the total cost of studies and surveys for a
total of US$300,000.



- 17 -
An amount of US$250,000 would be unallocated. Disbursements against Catego-
ries (i), (ii), (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) would be fully documented. I)is-
bursements against Category (iii) would be made against certificates of
expenditure, with the supporting documentation retained by the project man-
agement and made available for inspection during IDA supervision missions
(for special conditions of disbursements, see para. 42). The account of
the project (including the above-mentioned certificates of expenditure) and
ANEC accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and IFAD (Section 4.01 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
49.       As a result of the project, a significant increase in herd produc-
tivity is expected. The offtake and herd growth rates would increase from
9.3 percent and 0.4 percent respectively, to 11.3 percent and 3.4 percent at
full development while annual milk production would increase by 15,000 tons.
The economic rate of return on the main project components, accounting for
82 percent of the cost (including the Topia Pilot Project, but excluding the
cost of the Livestock Technical College and the studies), is estimated at 22
percent. However, the project is also expected to yield substantial benefits,
the valu.- of which cannot be quantified. For instance, the increase in meat
and milk 5:.oduction would raise nutritional levels among the herdsmen's
families, and the surplus would also lead to improved nutrition among urban
dwellers. The Topia Pilot Project, if successful, would contribute to the
design of rational modes of range management, acceptable to traditional
herdsmen, which would make C.A.E.'s pastures more productive, while the
studies on tse-tse fly will determine the scope for expansion of the useful
pasture base. An important project benefit would be the expected improvement
in the organization and functioning of the Livestock Service. Even the
partial adoption of the administrative and accounting reforms proposed under
this project would lead to greatly increased efficiency in the public adminis-
tration whose present weakness is the greatest single constraint to develop-
ment in the C.A.E. Finally, formal and informal training would improve the
ability of the Livestock Service staff to implement development plans.
Beneficiaries
50.       The proposed project would directly benefit about 50,000 family
members of the M'Bororo herdsmen who have the lowest per capita income in
C.A.E. Without the project, net per capita cash income in 1990 for the
average M'Bororo family member would be about US$120 in constant 1978 dollars.
With the project, this would rise by 25 percent to US$150. This would still
be below the 1976 average GNP per capita for C.A.E. The value of the increase
in the herd would be about US$240 per family member.
Risks
51.       Given Government's past overall poor resource mobilization and
utilization performance, a risk exists concerning the availability of domestic
funds for Government's contribution and for continuation of the program after
the project implementation period. To mimimize this risk during project



- 18 -
implementation, the Association would request that Government establish a
Project Account in which Government's contribution would be deposited monthly
and in advance (para. 44). This would also ensure regular pay to field staff
at least during the project development period by the end of which it is hoped
that a system for improved revenue generation (para. 46) would be ready for
implementation alleviating the financial burden on Government finance. More-
over, the project includes measures to improve Government's technical ability
to manage recurrent activities. A second area of risk relates to the present
low level of staff morale and motivation caused by laxity in management prac-
tices in the Livestock Service, which has hampered performance. To alleviate
this risk, besides providing staff with a clear and stimulating purpose, the
proposed project provides appropriate incentives. In particular, Government
has agreed to provide staff involved in the Project with: (a) adequate
permanent housing to all executive-level personnel both in Bangui and in the
field before January 1, 1980; and (b) trek allowances to local personnel at
all levels according to existing practices successfully followed by other
donors such as UNDP, and the Federal Republic of Germany involved in develop-
ment projects (Section 3.07 of the draft Joint Project Agreement). Another
risk is that the Topia Pilot Project would not produce timely and replicable
results. This occurrence, however regrettable, would not significantly com-
promise the success of this project because its short-term benefits, which
are substantial, would depend mainly on the success of the animal health com-
ponent, which carries no unusual risk. Even though some pasture degradation
in localized areas exists, pasture availability is not a present overriding
constraint. The failure of the pilot project would mean that C.A.E.'s live-
stock industry would eventually have to settle at lower stocking and productive
levels than would otherwise be possible.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement, between C.A.E. and the
Association, the draft Special Action Credit Agreement, between the C.A.E.
and the Association as Administrator of the EEC Special Action Account estab-
lished with funds contributed by EEC member states, the draft Joint Project
Agreement between the C.A.E. the Association, and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Features of special interest are referred to in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
54.       Special conditions for effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement
would be (a) authorization or ratification of the Joint Project Agreement;
(b) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EEC
Special Action Credit Agreement, IFAD and ADF Loan Agreements, other than
effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement; and (c) the employment of the
project manager, the manager of the Topia Pilot Project and the chief



- 19 -
accountant/administrative officer and having them in post; and (d) the estab-
lishment of the Project Account and initial deposit therein of CFAF 90 million
equivalent to US$409,000 (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). A special condition of effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit
Agreement would be the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement other than the effectiveness of the EEC
Special Action Credit Agreement.
55.       A condition of disbursement for the Topia Pilot Project would be the
enactment of adequate legislation to enable the constitution of cooperative
associations of herdsmen and the demarcation of pasture areas and their assign-
ment to these associations (para. 3 of Schedule 1 of the draft Joint Project
Agreement).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed EEC Special
Action Credit would be in conformity with the criteria established by the
Agreement of May 2, 1978 between the Association and the EEC.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 16, 1979



- 20-                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE                                      a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SANE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RICER?      GEOGRAPHIC    INCME         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJLUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  32.0         69.0      79.0              52.1       62.9         75.8
FEMALE                12.0         45.0       53.0             37.6        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          5.0       8.0              8.0        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 0.3          2.0        3.0              5.0         8.8         12.9
VCCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SECONDARY) 10.0           12.0       9.0               7.2        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0         63.0      69.0              43.2       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           25.0         22.0        ..             22.8        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0 /h                  .*              20.3        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          4.0       5.0              3.9         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                          10.0         30.0      41.0              40.1       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..               2.2        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.4          0.3         ..              3.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            0.3         *-              1.2         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        720.0        820.0         ..
FEMALE (PERCEPT)                    51.2         50.0      49.3             32.6        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               94.0         91.0        ..             73.3        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   1.8          2.5        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.5         55.8       54.9             42.0        39.8        37.8
MALE                                  59.5         58.5       57.9             54.8        53.3        50.3
FEMALE                                55.7         53.4      52.2              27.3        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9         ..              1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..              25.7       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..        ..              55.1       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..              5.8         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             14.5       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             108.8       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      45.0              74.1       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             124.4      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      60.0             59.6        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..              26.8       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      30.0              47.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Law Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1970-75;  1   African population only, excluding 15 percent of
population not covered by survey; /h Prior to 1965.
September, 1978



ANNEX .'                                              - 21 -
Page  2  of  S  pages                                 TABLE 3A
CENTRAL AFRICAN EIFPRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S0. EM.)               CENTRAL AFRICAN ENPIRE              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) L
TOTAL            623.0                                                     SANE         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      60.0                                  lDST URCENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOIM       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE l         REGION L    GROUP Ld    GROUP  e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  120.0        170.0     250.0            223.6       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PUR CAPITA
(KILOGM    OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       37.0         63.0      34.0             86.7       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          1.3          1.6       1.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 18.6          30.1      35.9             13.6        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         2.0          3.0       3.0             18.4        46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAD       22.0         27.0      32.0             53.6       254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.6         42.1      42.0             44.4        43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.1        54.8       54.9             52.7       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.3          3.1       3.1              2.8         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.0          2.2       2.2 /f           2.6         2.4         2.7
URBAN                               7.9          7.2       5.9 If           5.8         4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.2         45.4      43.4             46.9        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      30.5         26.4      22.5             20.6        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.5          2.9       2.7              3.1         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..              2.5        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             113.4        100.0      96.3             94.2        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                    96.0         96.0     102.0             90.1       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           48.0         48.0        ..             55.2        50.0        56.8
OF WEICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..         22.0        ..             17.1        13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      27.4           ..         ..              ..          ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.0          39.0      41.0             43.7        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           190.0Oa         ..         ..           138.4       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             22.4        26.4        31.1
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             10.4        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         72.0     100.0             23.9        16.1        37.5
URBAN                                ..         64.0     100.0             70.3        65.9        69.5
RURAL                                *-         96.0     100.0             14.2         3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          37000.0      38330.0   28980.0          21757.5    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2680.0       1280.0         ..          3473.8      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             670.0        460.0        ..            645.4      1157.6       786.5
URBAN                                 *-       500.0         *-           172.9       183.3       278.4
RURAL                                ..        450.0         ..          1292.6      1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         21.6         ..            19.2        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.9           ..         ..             4.9         5.2
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..             5.0         4.8
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             4.7         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                               3.4           ..         ..              ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..        25.9         28.3
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..         8.7         10.3



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS Or SOCIAL INDICATORS                                 Page   3   of   5  pages
-r ucse acrod gr-up averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric moans, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
poueatef cctre Da each grou p .  Coverage of  oor.tries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages .or Capital Sarplus lit Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
sir-ie  -epslation-weiguted geo.etric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AgRfA ctp-sand  sq. k)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface arca co.rprising land area and inland waters.,                       urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Acrioultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Eitablishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNr rER CAPITA (US$) - GNP p-r capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal casters not permanently staffed by a physielam (but by a medical as-
calcaiated by san.e coversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accormodatiom and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total comber of admissions to or discharges
EINERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                    from hospi als divided by the nabner of beds.
(cost and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
rhortual electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   HOUSING
Average size gf hossehcld (persona per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPI,ATISN Alit VITAL STAIIS-ICS                                                            A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total      AN, mIdya  (millions) - As of July 1, if not available,                         and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (peroent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
ties; different definitions oi urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persans per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respeotively.  Dwellings exclude sno-perma-ent stroctures and
Per  sq. km, - Mid-year popalation per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access no electricity_(perc ent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural-
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above Eor agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electiicity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, srban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year pooulations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithietic averages ending tn 1960 and                    cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                     above the official school age.
Lrade death rate (per thousand) - Annual deatas per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as abovs  secondary educe-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduotion rare - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
ir her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
stecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational instltutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Familp pl -ncing  -aooopnrs, annual (thou.a.ds) - Annual musher of                        or as departments of serondary institrtioms.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total stadents enrolled in
planning program.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Pamily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
.arried women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to ail married women in sane age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and ever.
lOD hlt NEITRITTION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
loden cf iood production per caPita (1970100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (Per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capite anrual production of all food comuodities.                                     seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita sacoir of calories (percent of reqairements) - Computed from                 vehicles.
ergy eqoiv-lent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand populatlon) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Avail'able supplies cOnprise domestic production, iuparts less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unli.ensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
q-ac-irias  -sed in food processing, and loases in distribution.  Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
-uiremnnts were estimated by FAl based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
val acticity and health considering envirommental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
w-ighcs, age and sen dintribrtinns of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supopl  of protein (grass per day) - Prootli e cote-t of per                N-wspaper circulation (per th.oa.nd popolatien) - Shows the average cicula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                    tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
abo- - eqoiremenrs for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a viu- mu   allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
cf urimal and pulse protein, ot which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capito per year - based on the number of tickets
ihese stsudards are lower than those of 75 grans of total protein and                   sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal potceis as a-  ovorage for the worId, proposed by                    units.
FAD in the Third Ward Fod Slurvey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
dericec from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force 'thousands) - Econorically active persons, including armed
Child (ages I-a) mortality rate (per thoasand) - Annual doaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed bat excluding houseves, stude-ts, eta.  Defini-
and in age groap 1-4 years, to childreu in this age group.                              rions ir various countries are not comparable.
Pemale (porcear) - Female labac farce as per-eroage of tOral labor fPro-.
HEALTH                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
life .enpocray a:t birth   yaar( - Avarage sk.ber of years of life                       as perretstge of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manu.facturing and
and 1i75.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
lefanc mortality rate (per thousand; - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year cf age per thousand live birhts.                                               'e.ale labor focre as percentages .f their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of poprulatlon) -ith oreal,    ble acdcraa-    Tese are r    re uOdj-ated particip-tio- rates refltcrio0 cu-son
lumber of people (total, urban, and rural) with reaso.nable access to                   n cracture of the pepaeti-r. and 1- or~ice tred.
saef water scpplv (inclodes treated surface waters or untreated bht                  Economic dependence  ratio - Ratio of poplsatior under :5 sad tj and over to
-ncoctutltr.uted water such na that from protected boreholes, springs,                  the labor fire in age group ot 15-6  vyears.
and samitary -1ll) as per-enrages of their respective populations.
1n an -rban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                    INCONE DISTRIBUTION
than 211 meters fret a hous.e  ay De considered as being within rea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and hind) received by richest 5
vocable acess of that h-ua-.  Is rural areas reasonable aces woald                      percert, riobeot 20  erc-ent, pooreat 20 parceon, and pearoan 40 percent
imply rha- thle ho-uewcfg  or members of tie household do not hare to                   of households.
spe-d a disproport.l-ate part of the day in fetching the family's
-ter  -oeos.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
iecess to eecerea dauposal (peccect of population) -  otal, urban, aed                nEtimated absolute peverty income level (VSS per capita) - arban asc rural -
rural - Scoo-er of pe-pl  (t'tal, urbaa, and rural) served by  .oesa                     Absolate poverty income level is that Income level below whicl, a minira
dIsposal a'- percentages of their respective populations.  Escrera                       -utriviosally adequate diet plus esseatial son-feud requireme- ts is -cc
di--rsal >>   ..i-elude the  c.l Cr-trn  as.i disposal, with or without                 affordablo.
retr-Lz-t, Jt     ar n c-  rtea  -od waste-water by water-borne systems              _stiar,ted relattve poverty income leve (    p                 - urban and rurai -
ti ,-c J  pit pr-ivis and cirilar  Rnstaliation.                                     ielative povercy imose lovel ia that incoee levei   uss than one-third
2aacu 'o re_   ys1cciac - P'opulatiun divided by number of proorieiag                     per .apita persona' i         come of the couctry.
p lysi.r- qai'  'ed frcm a codical scl:i-1 at university level.                       stinated population belowpovey i-cm            level (sercent) -  -r_a  and rural -
'on.l r ftc oars .1k nersoc   Popala-i- dicided by number of                          P-erent of populatios (urban and meal) who are eith-r "absolute poor" or
prat,;ing       ad f le graduate rur-s, practicl nurses, and                            "relative poor" whibheoer is greater.
Economic avo Social Data Divicien
Economic Analysis aed Projections lepartcent



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant  prices)
TJS$ Mln.     %                  1960-65          1965-70         1970-77
GNP at Market Prices          436.0        100.0                  1.6              3.6             1.4
Gross Domestic Investment      51.9         12.0                  5.2              1.0             1.0
Gross National Saving           7.8          2.0                 28.2              3.2             2.0
Current Account Balance       -50.2        -11.5                  2.2              0.0             8.2
Export of Goods, NFS          135.5         31.1                 10.4              2.1             5.1
Imports of Goods, NFS         179.6         41.2                  7.7              1.7             6.3
OUrPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                Labor Force                V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      L               Mln. _                      E__
Agriculture                    164.5       38.0
Industry                        74.2       17.0
Services                       197.3       45.0
Unallocated  V                    ..        ..
Total/Average
436.0     100.0                       100.0                       100.0
CENTRAL GIOVERNMENT                                                                       % of GDP
FINANCE (Blns CFAF)             1971    1975    1976    1977    1978 2                1977       1971-77
Current Receipts                10.8    13.0    13.6    16.7    18.8                   16           14
Current Expenditure             12.3    16.4    17.5    20.9    22.5                   20           18
Current Surplus                 -1.5    -34    -3.9    -.2         3-7 -77-                         _4
Capital Expenditures             1.4      1.8     1.3      1.9     3.0                  2            2
External Assistance (net)/3      0.5      2.6     2.1      2.3     3.6                  2            2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES             1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977 L4
(Billions of CFAF outstanding end perioTd
Money and Quasi Money                 8,.4     9.8    10.3    13.6    13.7    19.4    20.8
Bank credit to Public Sector          2.2      2.4     4.8      7.5     9.0      9.7    10.8
Bank credit to Private Sector         8.9      4.9    10.2    13.1    13.5    12.9    14.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as ,8 of ,DP   13.1    14.5    14.8    15.3    13.1    16.4
Wholesale Price Index (l976=1oo)/5  66.4    70.6    72.8    82.8    95.2   100.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale price index                 5.6      6.3     3.1    13.7    15.0       5.0
Bank credit to Public Sector         -9.9      9.1   100.0    56.3    20.0      7.8    11.3
Bank credit to Private Sector       -20.9    11.2      3.0    28.4      3.1    -4.4    14.0
Not available.                       . Not aDplicable.
Includes indirect taxes.
IMF estimates.
Consisting of grants ar.d loans from foreign bilateral and multilateral entities and IMF counterparts.
g Provisional.
G Seneral price index not available.
January 1979



ANN.X I
- 24 -                                          Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971-77)
1970        1975     1976    1977                                1971                  9-1977
(Millions US$)                                           Mln US$    %       Mln. US$
Export of Goods,  NFS          61.8    86.4    105.9   135.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          77.9   159.8    140.6   179.6
Resource gap (deficit = -)-6.i    -73.7              7   -44.1            Diamonds              11.5      36        18.8     23         23
Cotton                 7.6     24         7.8      10        15
Interest Payments (net)        -2.8    -2.8        -.2    -1.6            Coffee                 7.6      24        33.1     41         29
Workers' Remittances             1.0      .6        .9     *-             Timber                  3.2     10        14.3     18         23
Other Factor Payments (net)    -         -         -       -              Others                 2.1       6         7.6      8         10
Net Transfers                  -1.8    -2.5         .4    -4.5                                  32.0    100       T7 71     100        100
Balance on Current Account   -19.7   -7.1    -3          -50.2
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1977  /2
Direct Foreign Investment         .9     4.2       2.5    -2.9                                                                       uS$ Mln.
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 1.7      ..        ..      ..             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                64.0
Amortization                 -1.0      ..        ..      .N on-Guaranteed
Subtotal                      -.3    145       13.0      6.1            Total outstanding & Disbursed                                64.0
Capital Grants                   8.2    40.2      40.6    35.5
Other Capital (net)              1.4    15.4      -7.5    11.8            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 a
Other items n.e.i.               6.8     4.7       1.      4.1 i
Increase in Reserves (e)        -2.7     0.9      16.3       -             Public Debt,  incl. guaranteed                               12.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)        0.2     3.8      18.8     ..             Total outstanding & Disbursed                                12.7
Net Reserves (end year)        -0.9    -1.9        3.7
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING (;anrlary-31 -1979)- (Milli on ;s$)
of which: Petroleusi 1J      ..      ..        ..      ..                                                         ]BRD          IDA
Exports
of which: Petroleum           .       .         .       .             Outstanding & Disbursed                                   11.1
Undisbursed                                   .          16.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE27.
1970: 27b    -1974:  440
1971: 278     1975: 1 14
1972: 256     1976: c139
1973: 230     1977: s45
1978: 220
Not applicable.
Not available.
/ Staff estimates.
/ Provisional Staff estimates.
/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
January 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE (C.A.E.)
STATEMENTS OF IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1979)
Credit                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Number      Year       Borrower       Purpose              IDA      Undisbursed
Two Credits have been fully disbursed.                     8.5           -
308-CA      1972       C.A.E.         Education            3.9          1.3
847-CA*     1978       C.A.E.         Third Highway       15.5         15.5
Total IDA credits                  27.9         16.8
Total undisbursed                  16.8
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Nil.
*    Not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
Project in Execution 1/
Credit No. 308    Education I Project:  US$3.9 million Credit of May 26,
1972; Effectiveness Date: January 18, 1973; Closing
Date: December 30, 1979
The project originally consisted of: (a) construction and equip-
ping of two lower secondary schools; (b) extensions to four lycees and to
the technical lycee in Bangui; (c) technical assistance (7 man-years) for
project implementation and preparation of a long-term educational development
plan, curricula and teacher training plans. The project is about 2-1/2
years behind schedule, due largely to delays in (a) appointing consultants,
(b) recruiting a technical adviser to prepare bidding documents, and (c)
awarding construction contracts. As a consequence of these delays and by
world-wide inflation costs have risen from US$4.3 estimated at appraisal to
about US$10.2 million (net of taxes). Government has decided with our agree-
ment only to proceed with the extensions to five lycees and the construction
of two new lower secondary schools. Construction of the five school extensions
is almost complete and equipment has been delivered; contracts have been
awarded for the two lower secondary schools and construction has started. The
net of tax cost of the reduced project is estimated to be US$4.8 million.
Because of Government's financial difficulties IDA had agreed to disburse
against 100 percent of net of tax costs of the project (see President's
Memorandum to the Board No. IDA/R77-51 of May 2, 1977). Meanwhile Government
has obtained assistance from the OPEC Special Fund to provide US$700,000
equivalent to finance the project costs not covered by the Credit. The
Credit will therefore finance 81 percent of project costs net of taxes.
1/   This note is designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects which are being implemented, and to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. It should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that it does not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 2 years and 8 months.
(b) Project prepared by: Government and RMWA.
(c) First time project submitted to the Association: November, 1975.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: February 24, 1978.
(e) Negotiations completed: February 24, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1, 1979
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Government would cause ANEC to cease operations in the field of
animal health (para. 32).
2.   To implement the project, the Government would employ the Project
Manager, the Chief Accountant, and the Manager of the Topia Pilot Project
prior to credit effectiveness. Other internationally recruited staff
should be employed by the 31 January, 1980. The Government would further-
more prepare annual budgets and programs, and submit them for approval
by the Association, at least three months before the start of the fiscal
year (para. 37).
3.   Government would limit the annual output of students from the Live-
stock Technical College to no more than 15 (para. 41).
4.   Government would cause ANEC to contribute an appropriate percentage
of members dues to the Project Account for the purchase of veterinary
products (para. 39).



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
5. Disbursements against expenditures for the Topia Pilot Project would
be conditional upon the enactment of adequate legislation to enable the
constitution of cooperative associations of herdsmen and the delineation
of grazing areas as well as their allocation to herdsmen for development
(condition of disbursement, para. 42).
6. Government would establish a Project Account and deposit therein
US$409,000 equivalent (condition of effectiveness). Subsequently Govern-
ment would deposit monthly, in advance, its contribution for payment of
local salaries into this account (para. 44).
7. Government would, by December 1, 1983, propose a system designed to
yield revenue aimed at alleviating the financial burden of maintaining
the Livestock Service (para. 46).
8. Government would ensure that (a) adequate housing for all executive-
level staff would be provided; and (b) local staff would be given
appropriate trek allowances (para. 51).



='                                   X:   --   ,g, ,k,_, g . E Q L .   A SJ C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i:ag
9~~~~~~~~~~~~$,         Wp/ / /(1   I            Ar                                           D  EVE"8 -=OPMEN    '@ TY;,ff=
; 4--< i CEraTRAL~~~~~~~~~~~AFRCAb MX 1 /;<'1]M 02;40 ;(;
A :,4- 1 ir04e _i; tt ALoM4hJ 1 0 h 2 0 ;0 _7BlestirrnetveFf Xloh; piris~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-EO>N0a - M    >s ~~~~~~~ N >-   \ A' <                       sy Sandliatk X0 09   EwL~~~~~m;4 : 1
; ;; 27 i 0 \; b =; k TW Eit ,; tES5 0 't. g 2 % >2 \<%r X Z X X < . _. _ .|nternt.ontXl bwndwries tv~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ..........
0 0; 0 ' ;4,,2Sa0>f*) ;2t,<   <:,2- y  - - g\<J r  =   -HOuaddo  A)  l  j   h f  ;fa a S p g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
I AMTRDM< CC X X  1 \XE m SS 'j a FJ/ * H=X                                        Y  5\AS U A`A N 
10~ ~~~~~~A AFRICAN7-zs<v0'.                                              '              XX 1             s    : 
t  |;;T  Pl<V fv$ : t X  ^}Mbest vgK4  g f 7 
EDW                                                                                                                      p _S<s
U< X :X v S 0 M+ X E ;| - - ZAIRE l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A~
::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t                                                                              ', .,__ d,<  fF2E-  :St U D-A;:J N
0: ; 0 :2 0 tQ 9 \ <  e ; i 2 J 0 \ $Xi 9  iB RIi0   3
Si .Ahilit ROON \/ /t t 5 ; 4 9; g 2 ;m; ;ffiJWe;  fW bo pJp;U; es ; b2i10  i!J; :A s.= ; =2 i ;i8 0
5 02;ivA   A i\ oGD50;; QzuW}z,S,  - 5ttjiwm n,r. .  






IBRD 13643
JUNE 1975
6, 130'                                                                   t8d50'
H1!.; 7. ro           0  S  YRA  F                                                                      CENTRAL AFRICAN  EMF'IRE
,.,N .IRIA                                                                                    LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT' PROJECT
CENT                                                                          Topio   Pilot  Project  Areia
5I20'-
-     - Boundary of pilot projeCt area
Secondary roads
E QUATOQr                                          I -                         u;MAtN;
Existing or formerly existing) raclks
Access tracks/firebreaks to be constructed
liii 111ii  Tse-Tse barrier-existing
-.                     UN  I    Tse-Tse barrier-to be created
A                                                                                  ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Dipping  tank-exsiuing
Sxrx,                                                                                 0     Dipping  tank-to be constructed
A     Caimp  of traditional leader
-\ !                  Orob   /    Bata  Catholic mission
---Topia  diStriCt  boundaries
K J  ,   .    0.,                                                                                        T
5'    ~ 10"\_                                                                                           
-  4-40'S \~ -     Camp   Topi5 A      a=             4-40'
ru,, rap fla  been p,epCred DY rhh  V                                                                I. 
rhereporrtoI rrhfl ,r,flt,eS h   d    |    Comp r                                                                                                             IC,
do tot rhrprr. on the parr of ale                                      NX P                           Panh o  ' \ 
err re,rrtorr or err' eandOsehenref  \--6
orecceptaneraebftrarnrtarrhr       -sXe                                                                  ~            tpr                          >
16010'                               602r                                 t6-30'     .~o                        5a4045                            z 56 50'
I                              I V                                                                       IAREA    IIII



