Document of            _ tU,
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2134-CAE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 16, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unil:               =          CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                      =           CFAF 220
CFAF 1,000                   =          US$4.55
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer         k2       =          0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )                0.39 square mile
1 hectare                    =          2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)              =          2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)             =          2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
JuLy 1 - June 30
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADF      -     African Development Fund
AdTE     -     Animal Health Technician (Adjoint Technique d'Elevage)
AgTE     -     Animal Health Agent (Agent Te,chnique d'Elevage)
ANEC     -     National Livestock Owners Association (Association
Nationale des Eleveurs Centra:Ericains)
EEC      -     European Economic Community
IEMVT    -     Institute for Tropical Livestock and Veterinary Medicine
- French (Institut d'Elevage et de Medicine Veterinaire
des Pays Tropicaux)
IFAD     -     International Fund for Agricu:Ltural Development
FAC      -     French Aid Agency (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)
FAO      -     Food and Agricultural Organization
FED      -     European Development Fund
FRG      -     Federal Relpublic of Germany
RMWA     -     Resident Mission, West Africa (World Bank Group)
SEGA     -     National Abattoir Management Company (Societe d'Etat de
Gestion des Abattoirs)
UNDP     -     United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
LIVESTOCK IDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.           BACKGROUND   .............................................                   1
A.   General       ........................................... .             1
B.   The Livestock Subsector  .....             ......................      2
II.          THE PROJECT AREA ..............................   l
III.         THE PROJECT  ..............    .............................               13
A.   Project Objectives and Summary Description  ...... ..    13
B.   Detailed Features  ........          .........................    14
C.   Cost Estimates            ....................................    20
D.   Proposed Financing Plani ......            .....................    22
E.  Procurement           .......................................    23
F.   Disbursements            .....................................    24
G.   Accounts and Audit              ................................    24
IV.         PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                ................................    25
A.   Project Management               ................................    25
B.   Staff Training,  Incentives and Recruitment  ........    27
C.   Administrative Procedures  .........................    28
V.           PRODUCTION TECHNIQUES  ........            .........................    29
A.   Animal Health and Production Measures  ..........              ...   29
B.   Impact on Herd Productivity  ......             .................    31
VI.          FINANCIAL ANALYSIS             ....................................    32
A.   Output       ............................................    32
B.  Markets and Prices  ........          ........................    34
C.  Cost Recovery             .....................................    35
VII.         BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  .....                ................    36
VIII.        ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                 ........   39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. A. Osei and R. Brown (IDA) and Messrs. Y. Cheneau and J. Coulomb
(consultants) which visited the Central African Empire in February/March
1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Appendix 1 - Project Studies -- Summary Terms of Reference
Appendix 2 - Initial Tasks of Pro ject Manager
Appendix 3 - Reporting Format
ANNEXES
1.   Summary Project Cost by Years
2.   Herd Development Model - Without Project
3.   Herd Development Model - With Project
4.   Incremental Milk Production
5.   Incremental Benefits for Average Family
6.   Disbursement ScheduLe
CHARTS  1. 19122 - Topia Pilot Project - Implementation Schedule
2. 19123 - Proposed Projec:t Organization
MAPS    IBRD 13642
IBRD 13643
PROJECT FILE - (Available on requejst)
(a)  Central African Empire -- Livestock Development Project,
Preparation Report - RMW1A; 1977 (in French)
(b)  Working Paper on Animal Health in CAE;
March 1978 (in French)
(c)  Working Paper on Animal Production in CAE;
March-April 1978 (in French)
(d)  Le Cheptel Bovin de la Republique Centrafricaine by Lacrouts,
Sarniguet et Tyc; 1966
(e)  Miscellaneous Working Papers
(i)  Detailed Terms of Reference for Consultants
(ii)  Herd Numbers - M'Bororo Cattle
(iii)  Comparative Statistics on Meat Demand 1965 and 1976
- A. Basis - Official Slaughter Data
- B. Basis - Per Capita Consumption
(iv)  Imports of Live Cattle
(v)  Meat Demand Projections
(vi)  Meat Price Structure - Bangui
(vii)  Detailed Project Cost
1 - Investments
2 - Operations, Maintenance and Supplies
3 - Studies
4 - Personnel
(viii) Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(ix) Reporting Format



I. BACKGROUND
A. General
Project Background
1.01      The Government of the Central African Empire has asked the Inter-
national Development Association to assist in financing a livestock develop-
ment project that would increase dornestic beef production through an improve-
ment in livestock services to traditional herdsmen, the M'Bororo, who own
most of the nearly 700,000 cattle in the western half of the country. The
project was identified in 1975 by RMWA which completed a preparation report
in late 1977 on behalf of the Goverrument. Appraisal took place in February/
March, 1978.
The Economic Setting
1.02      The CAE is a thiniy populated country with 1.9 million inhabitants
distributed over 620,000 km in a landlocked position. The vegetation changes
from equatorial forest in the south to sudanian savannah in the north, with
large areas of transitional wooded savannah which are more suitable for animal
husbandry than for crop production.  The transport connection with the Atlantic
Ocean is via the Oubangui-Congo river to Brazzaville (1,300 km) and then by
railway to Pointe Noire (510 km). River traffic is very limited during the
dry season, between January and ApriLl. There is a road connection with
Cameroon which is currently in poor condition. The section from Bangui to
Bossembele is to be upgraded under a Third Highway Credit recently approved
(Cr. 847-CA).
1.03      In 1976, GNP per capita wis estimated at US$230 equivalent, about
the same level as it was in 1970. Agriculture and forestry together account
for about 38% of GNP, including four percentage points contributed by the
livestock subsector. Population is concentrated in the south and the west of
the country, where the principal economic activities and Bangui, the capital
and only principal city (with 250,000 inhabitants), are located. The other
provincial cities, such as Bouar, M"Baiki, Bambari, Berberati, and Bossangoa,
have populations no greater than 30,000 each. Industrial activity is
limited to processing agricultural products (mainly cotton, coffee, tobacco
and wood) and the production of some consumer goods (e.g., beer and soft
drinks). Alluvial diamonds are prodluced although there are no large-scale
mines. The only other mineral resource of importance is the yet unexploited
deposit of uranium in the northeast. The service sector -- transport, com-
merce and public administration -- accounts for the balance of wage employment.
The provinces of the east2and northeast have only about 100,000 inhabitants
dispersed over 250,000 km
The Agricultural Sector
1.04      Agriculture accounts for about 80% of export receipts and supports
about 80% of the population. There are about 300,000 farms with average farm
size of 1.75 ha. Cassava is the presdominant food crop except in the northeast
where millet is widely grown. Other food crops are groundnuts, maize, yams,
sesame, rice and vegetables. The main cash crops are cotton, coffee and



- 2 -
tobacco, which are 100% marketed; cassava, 40% marketed; and groundnuts,
10-15% marketed. The fore2try zones, in the southwest and center-south,
cover a total of 34,000 km . After a decade of rapid progress, the wood
industry entered a recession in 1974/75 following the reduction of demand 3
in traditional export markets. In à975, production consisted of 225,000 m
of logs, 22% exported, and 72,000 m  of timber, 35% exported.
1.05      To promote an expansion of agriculture, Gove!rnment launched "Opera-
tion Bokassa" in 1966, which was aiLmed at making the country self-sufficient
in basic foods and ameliorating agriculture in general. However, resources
devoted to this program have been very modest. In 1970, Government promul-
gated the Agrarian Reform which consisted of: (i) dissolving the regional
and sectoral development agencies, including the livestock agency called
Office du Developpement d'Elevage; (ii) creating a "national office for the
commercialization of agricultural products" (ONCPA); aLnd (iii) nationalizing
the French-operated institutes of agronomic and veterinarian research. There
followed a mass exodus of the expatriate technicians who had staffed the
agencies servicing agriculture, including the Livestock Service. ONCPA was
not a success and it ceased operations in 1974 after serious financial and
management problems.  In the past several years, a feu programs financed from
external sources have been launched, in particular in the cotton and coffee
industries. Overall, the agricultural sector, like th,e economy as a whole,
has been stagnant.
Agricultural Development Strategy
1.06      The CAE does not have a cohesive agricultural development program,
and thus there is no official strategy as such. However, there are success-
ful examples of a commodity-oriented approach to development, such as in the
coffee and tobacco subsectors, wher-e production is destined for export chan-
nels. This approach has proved effective in stimulating production of a
limited range of crops in the CAE, but its overall developmental impact has
been slight. Government is aware of this and, under FRG assistance, has
undertaken a more broadly-based development project covering most of the
Ouham-Pende commune of the northwest. The project will be concerned with cash
and food crops--cotton, groundnuts, maize and rice--as well as animal traction.
A German consultant firm is currently studying the farming problems involved
and practical means of intervention. The results of this initial project would
indicate the nature and magnitude cf appropriate external assistance to the
crop production subsector in CAE. Priorities within the sector as a whole
were assessed in 1975 by RMWA, and the livestock subsector was judged to have
the most potential for development over the medium term.
B. The Livestock Subsector
General
1.07      Livestock is an important resource for the Central African Empire.
The herd of cattle, estimated at 900,000 head, has grown from practically



- 3 -
zero over the past 50 years. Herd growth has derived principally from the
immigration of pastoralists from neighboring countries (Cameroon, Chad and
Sudan). The country also has about ,'00,000 small ruminants, 70,000 pigs, and
1.7 million chickens. The evolution of the size of the national cattle
herd is in the Project File.
1.08      The cattle are located in itwo livestock zones:  the western zone,
centered on Bouar, which is the principal zone with 700,000 cattle, and the
eastern zone, centered on Bambari, w:ith 200,000 cattle. The main cattle
breed is the Zebu, both M'Bororo and Foulbe types. In addition, there are
about 12,000 head of the N'Dama-Baou:Le breed remaining from a special program
carried out by the Livestock Service in the 1960s to introduce trypano-
tolerant animals. Finally, there arie also about 2,000 oxen, either Zebu
or M'Bororo-N'Dama, used for animal traction in agriculture.
1.09      The livestock industry is almost completely in the hands of pasto-
ralist families of the M'Bororo tribe, the number of families being about
8,000 with a total membership of about 50,000, or about 2.5% of the total
population. These livestock producers lead lives which are not integrated
into the social structure of the country. Originally a nomadic people, they
were not given national identity cards until the late 1950s. Previous
attempts to bring them fully into the economic mainstream had encountered
difficulties, largely because Government's support was not consistent. The
formation of a national herdsmen association (para 1.21), in 1974, signaled
a change in Government policy, and the proposed project is further evidence
of official commitment to promote the economic and social well-being of the
M'Bororo. These traditional herdsmen, who would be the sole direct bene-
ficiaries of the project, possess sizeable capital assets in the form of their
cattle herd. However, owing to a traditional reluctance to treat their cattle
primarily as an exploitable resource (para 1.28) average income among the
M'Bororo is the lowest of all groups in the CAE.
1.10      The herdsmen practice transhumance for the most part.  Since 1970,
when the Livestock Service became largely non-functional following the Agrarian
Reform (para 1.05), the system of production has become disorganized; the
pasture resource has become degraded; the threat from animal diseases has
become a danger of sizeable proportions; and herdsmen have become regular
users of pasture zones which are infested by the tsetse fly.
Production, Consumption and Marketin&
1.11      In 1976, domestic consumption of beef and beef products was in
excess of 26,000 tons; about 8,500 tons or about 33% of the beef was imported
from neighboring countries, principally Chad and Sudan (see Project File).
Consumption of beef, representing 80% of all meat consumption, is estimated
at about 15 kg per capita. In the urbanized Bangui area, beef consumption
in 1976 was estimated at about 20 kg per capita. This compares to 40 kg in
N'Djamena, Chad and 39 kg in Ngaoundere, Cameroon. For the past decade,
meat consumption has been growing at over 3% per year, or slightly higher
than population growth.
1.12      Livestock marketing in the countryside is largely accomplished
through ad hoc arrangements with local butchers, who kill cattle on the



-4-
spot, or with middlemen who are familiar to the herdsmen. Virtually all
imports are on-the-hoof. There are two major cattle routes through the
country leading to the principal market at Bangui (Map 13642).
1.13      At Bangui, a new modern abattoir was recently constructed although
it is not yet operational because of several mistakes in the original design
which have necessitated additionaL work;it was expected to commence full
operations at the end of 1978. Official slaughter is controlled by a state
organization (para 1.20). Although official retail prices exist for beef in
Bangui, actual prices are much higher.  As part of the preparation of the
follow up project, a study of the marketing system would be made (para 3.15
and Appendix 1). Further information is given in the Preparation Report which
is a part of the Project File.
Institutions
1.14      The Livestock Service.  As part of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock, the Livestock Service has a Director General who is charged
with day-to-day affairs regarding animal health, livesstock production and
marketing, and the inspection of animal-based products. Under the Director
General, who resides at Bangui, there are four veterinary inspection divisions,
encompassing 14 veterinary sectors, 27 subsectors, and numerous one-person
field posts. Within the Livestock Service there are specialized sections
devoted to animal traction, sericulture, trypanotolerant cattle, cattle feed,
and veterinarian clinics.
1.15      The Livestock Service has 12 CAE veterinarians, plus 15 CAE students
presently enrolled in veterinary institutes. In addition, there are four CAE
citizens at the level of Technical Officer. At the sub-professional level,
there are 28 technical assistants who mostly were trained at the French-
assisted regional facility at N'Djamena, Chad, close to 200 lower level
technicians, and numerous part-time vaccinators. The personnel budget lists
450 employees, although there is no detailed information on their deployment.
To these numbers should be added the 154 students currently at the National
Livestock College who are effectively employees of t'he Livestock Service.
1.16      This manpower base, if efficiently used, would be more than suffi-
cient to meet the needs of the Livestock Service. Unfortunately, with the
exceptions noted below, the Service has been in a state of disarray since
the 1970 Agrarian Reform, which effectively brought field operations to a
halt. Most of the CAE veterinarians currently in service were trained abroad
in institutes which do not have departments of tropical livestock production
and almost all lack field experience.  The technical staff furthermore has
become demoralized by the conditions of service. Although almost the entire
budget of the Service is allocated to salaries, payments are irregular and
no funds are available for operations.
1.17      There have been two recent interventions in the livestock sector,
both funded from external sources, that have aimed at selected improvements



-5-
of the Livestock Service. In the eastern livestock region, the FED has under-
taken a support program that began with two components: a tsetse eradication
campaign and the establishment of a ranch to crossbreed trypanotolerant
cattle (M'Bororo-N'Dama). The program has been broadened to cover animal
health in general. The FED has agreed to continue financing this program
along the same lines as the project proposed in this report.
1.18      In the western region, with headquarters at Bouar, the UNDP has
financed a team of three FAO veterinarians who have successfully established
the nucleus of an animal health service in the region. The initial FAO-UNDP
project covered a 1973-75 campaign against pleuropneumonia (CBPP). There were
no recorded outbreaks of CBPP in 1976 compared to 15 in 1974, when the project
started. A follow-up project was aimed at delivering animal health services
directly to the livestock producers, by furnishing veterinary posts with
medicines and materials (e.g., trypanocides and syringes) and means of tran-
sport (bicycles, motor scooters). Minor treatments are left to the initiative
of the livestock owner and, in practice, many of them also give the vaccina-
tions. The livestock owner pays the! agent a fee covering the cost of the
products utilized. The agent is then supposed to return the payment into
a revolving fund. Difficulties weret encountered in the operation of this
sytem, primarily because the Livestock Service field personnel, in the face of
irregular salary payments, retained the sums collected in the field. For
example, in 1976, approximately CFAF 7 million (US$28,000) worth of products
was distributed, but only CFAF 4.6 million (US$18,000) was returned to the
revolving fund.  This weakness was overcome in 1977 by restricting participa-
tion to about 20 reliable agents, and through the direct sale of medicines by
the expatriate veterinarians. This experience indicates that, in the present
circumstances of the CAE, tight administrative controls are necessary.  But
the program is also a practical demonstration of a workable model of an animal
health program adapted to the conditions of the country. In addition, the
FAO-UNDP project has demonstrated the effectiveness of action through:
- operation of a mobile veterinary team;
- operation of the clinical laboratory at Bouar, oriented to
diagnosis of diseases; and
- motivation of personnel through bonus payments to deserving
technical agents.
1.19      The Clinical Laboratory.  The existing veterinary laboratory at
Bouar is presently equipped to carry out only the most rudimentary
tests and examinations. The FAO-UNDP team has made effective use of the
limited facilities by concentrating its efforts and by use of ingenuity
(e.g., use of batteries to power necessary equipment). Vaccine doses are
prepared at this facility from bulk supplies imported mostly from the IEMVT
laboratory at N'Djamena, Chad.
1.20      SEGA.  Official slaughter in CAE is controlled by SEGA (Societe
d'Etat de Gestion des Abattoirs), a state-owned corporation. Killing is on



a custom basis for licensed agents. The slaughter fee which is presently CFAF
1,000 (US$4) is likely to be increased to CFAF 3,000/head (US$12) when the
new abattoir becomes operational. Even at this level, initial operations of
the new abattoir at Bangui are not expected to cover operating costs, and the
FED, which financed the new facility, has budgeted an operating subsidy of
CFAF 400 million (US$1.6 million) for 1978-80. At present, it is expected
that it would take close to the abattoir's capacity of 50,000 animals
slaughtered each year for slaughter operations to break even, but this would
represent only about half of the present national slaughter.
1.21      ANEC.  The National Livestock Producers Assocation (Association
Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains - ANEC) was created in 1974, on the
initiative of Government. Placed under the general supervision of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock, ANEC has a Secretary General who serves as full-
time manager and a President in the person of a mayor of one of the Livestock
Communes (para 1.23). ANEC's objectives relate to animal health, livestock
production, and defense of the producer community's interests. All western
livestock producers are expected to join ANEC paying ian annual membership fee
of CFAF 4,000 (US$18). The resources of ANEC therefore amount to CFAF 25 - 30
million (US$110,000-135,000) per year. ANEC's main contributions to the
sector have been (a) an annual purchase and free distribution of animal health
medicines, with a very limited impact; (b) minor contributions of vehicles and
operating funds to the Livestock Service; and (c) participation in the funding
of the UNDP animal health project in the western region. A contribution of
CFAF 7 million (US$32,000) in 1975 enabled the UNDP tesam to set up its revolv-
ing fund (para 1.18). ANEC's operations with regard to animal health have been
ineffective and its free distribution of veterinary mesdicines is at variance
with practice followed in the UNDP project. Under the proposed project ANEC's
role as a channel for herdowner's contributions to livestock development
activities would be modified in favour of: (i) the promotion of socially
oriented programs (nutrition, public health and adult education); (ii) the
provision of a livestock marketing advisory service; and (iii) the provision
of funds to the Livestock Service for purchasing veterinary products.
ANEC will cease operations in the field of animal heaLth.
1.22      The National. Livestock Training College.  To meet the needs of
the Livestock Service, a college for the training of middle-level technicians
was established at Bouar in 1969, with FED financing. The original plans
called for a two-year course, with 10-15 recruits a year, and training divided
into practical work during the morning and classroom work in the afternoon.
However, after 1970 the course was changed to four years, the yearly intake
was raised to 50 students (who recesive stipends of CFAF 12,000 - US$55 - per
month), and most of the herd that served as the basis for the practical train-
ing was sold to raise operating funds. While the physical plant remains in
excellent condition, the quality of instruction is poor since most instructors
are themselves recent graduates of this or an equivalent institution. The
only doctor-veterinarian on the faculty is the College Director, who has been
on a leave of absence while attending a training course.   Ninety-six poorly
trained graduates have been added to an already overstaffed Livestock Depart-
ment.  The operation of the Training Center would be reoriented as part
of the proposed project.



-.7-
Utilization of Pastoral Resources
1.23      Until about 1940, the traditional 2livestock zone was confined
to a quadrilateral covering about 12,000 km , situated to the northwest of
Bouar, on the prolongation of the Adamaoua plateau. Exploitation of the rich
pastures of this savannah land, free from tsetse infestation because of the
altitude, became an important element of the transhumant cycle in the 1930's
The size of the herd and detrimental pasture management practices led to a
gradual degradation of the pasture resources. Consequently, towards 1940,
immigration of pastoralists, mostly spontaneously but to some extent encouraged
by the authorities, began to penetrate as far as Carnot and Yaloke, to the
south, and Bambari to the east. This movement led to the creation of new
livestock zones, in particular the eastern zone where the herd has today
reached about 200,000 head. These spontaneous movements were constrained by
negative factors, such as the incidetnce of the tsetse-fly in the new zones.
In the 1960's, a major effort was uridertaken by the Livestock Service, in
consultation with the M'Bororo chiefs, to introduce more order to the sector
and more control over the movement of herds. A significant action was the
creation of administrative communes (three in the western zone: Niem, Koui
and Gaudrot, and two in the eastern zone: Ouro, Djafoun and Ewiy) in which
livestock would have priority use of the land resource.
1.24      As a result, seasonal movements became orderly, and within this
context further development of the pastoral areas to the south was encouraged,
such as, for example, the Topia area. However, in the 1970's, in the absence
of an effective Livestock Service, there has been practically no control over
the seasonal movement of herds and the occupation of pastoral areas, and an
absence of routine sanitary measures that previously helped to protect the
herds. Concurrently, pressure on pastoral resources has intensified as the
result of continued immigration of 1herdsmen from other African countries.
1.25      The degradation of pastures, expecially in the traditional zone
to the north but also in certain of the new livestock zones colonized in the
south, takes the form of a gradual conversion of the vegetation to ligneous
species, especially Harungana madagascariensis and Arthrosamanea eriorachis,
and even a total absence of vegetation in some areas (e.g., around watering
points) where prolonged occupation by large numbers of animals has occurred.
This process has its roots in traditional methods of pasture exploitation.
First, the stocking rate exceeds available pasture resources. In some pasture
areas estimated to have a nominal capacity of about one animal per 3 ha in
1963/64, there is now one animal per 1-2 ha. Second, when one transhumant
group of herders moves out of a pasture zone, another group from some other
area is likely to move in. And third, other pasture management practices (see
below) are incompatible with an optimum utilization of the pasture resource.
These underlying causes of pasture degradation can be reversed provided that
more rational methods of pasture utilization are accepted and practised by the
M'Bororo pastoralists themselves.  The proposed pilot sub-project is based on
this premise (para 3.11).



.8 -
The Traditional Production System
1.26      Pasture Management.  The M'Bororo practice an extensive system of
animal productioU based on seasona:L movements of anywhere from several dozen
to several hundred kilometers. This system involves burning the vegetation
remaining in wet-season pastures ait the end of the raiLns. Timing of the
burning has a double objective: (a) to improve animal feeding -- both by
eliminating inedible straw and by facilitating access to green sprouts that
appear after the fire; and (b) to protect pasture -- to some degree, to
eliminate the straw that would be subject to unplannedl and more violent fires
at the end of the dry season, thus preventing total destruction of the pasture
available at that time. This seasonal burning has unfortunate side effects --
(a) it results directly in a waste of forage resources; and (b) it prepares
the ground for an invasion of undesirable vegetation. Thus very serious
consequences for the herdsmen and t:he CAE economy have been caused by the
utilization of a pasture management. technique that is poorly adapted to the
ecological conditions. The proposed project would add[ress this problem
through a pilot grazing scheme (para 3.11).
1.27      Herd Management.  The average M'Bororo family, numbering about six
people, manages a herd of about 80 head of Zebu cattle. In general, the
M'Bororo are devoted herdsmen who care for their cattle.  Constraints on
production are both technical and social. Primarily because of low calving
rates and high calf mortality, the offtake rate under current conditions is
limited to about 10%. During each year, four or five head are sold to local
butchers or middlemen on an ad hoc basis. These sales generally take place
strictly to raise cash for elementaLl needs such as for taxes, light equipment,
short trips to nearby villages, and basic animal medicines, when available.
In addition, two or three animals are killed each year for consumption on
important occasions.  As milk remains the basic staple food of the pastoralist
family, the production of milk is the primary goal of day-to-day herd manage-
ment. Most of the milk not destined for calf feeding is consumed by the
family. An annual surplus estimated at about 500 litres per family a year is
sold in nearby villages in the form of butter or curd. The milk enterprise is
managed by the women of the family, who do the milking, walk long distances
with vessels of milk on their heads, and use the money earned to buy the
family's needs from village markets.
1.28      Among the M'Bororo, a large herd is a symbol of high status to be
conserved and passed on to the next generation. Herd ownership is often
difficult to determine since animals change hands as gifts, loans, or repay-
ment of loans. Outright sales for cash have a lower priority and offtake
rates are still low (para 1.27). However, one social consideration directly
favors the objective of increased animal production: the Moslem religious
faith, practised by the M'Bororo, places a high value on a pilgrimage to
Mecca--a trip that costs the equivalent of about 20 cattle. Further, M'Bororo
traditions have been changing under the pressure of events, and the trend
appears to be toward greater acceptiance of reduced seasonal movements and
interaction with the market economy.



-9-
Cattle Health Situation
1.29      Animal health is a principal constraint on growth of animal pro-
duction in CAE. All of the major cattle diseases that are responsible for
economic loss are present. Althouglh these diseases are controllable through
modern techniques, they represent a permanent menace to the national cattle
herd in the CAE because such techniques are not applied. Cattle mortality is
high (6% to 10%) and calving particularly low (not more than 40%), the latter
due to combined effects of trypanosomiasis and brucellosis as well as mineral
deficiencies and some herd management practices. Trypanosomiasis is widespread
and, with malnutrition, is the principal constraint to the development of
CAE's cattle industry. Rinderpest was eradicated during 1961-64 but reappeared
once in 1968 among wildlife.  It remains a constant threat because of cattle
movements from Sudan where the disease still persists. Without preventive
measures the risk of renewed outbreiaks is high.
1.30      Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) is endemic.  Despite a
three year vaccination campaign (1974-77), which considerably reduced the
number of outbreaks, the rate of chronic CBPP infection is reportedly high
and the disease will remain a serious potential danger as long as there are
enzootic areas, uncontrolled cattle movements, and unwillingness on the part
of cattle owners to report outbreaks. CBPP can be combated through yearly
vaccination. Brucellosis is a contributory cause of the low reproduction rate
of the national herd. Tuberculosis appears to be increasing but, although it
is responsîble for partial carcass contamination, the disease does not pose a
serious threat to production. Blackleg and haemorragic septicaemia incidence
is high, mainly in the higher rainfall areas; anthrax is less common. Out-
breaks of the last three diseases are generally sporadic and all three can be
combated with appropriate vaccines. Cattle ticks are widespread, but the
native stock is relatively immune to tick-born diseases such as anaplasmosis,
piroplasmosis and rickettsiosis. Foot-and-mouth disease occurs from time to
time but in a fairly mild form. Internal parasitism -- mainly strongylosis and
coccidiosis -- represents a major constraint to animal production, causing a
high proportion of deaths among young stock and poor weight gains. At present
very little control is practiced. Development of the cattle industry will
require adequate control measures with appropriate drugs.
Livestock Development Strategy
1.31      As outlined above, the livestock subsector is in a precarious and
fragile condition. Yet, the constraints on the sector under current conditions
are well known and amenable to corrective action even if numerous:
- degraded pastures in the traditional livestock
zone in the north;
- a breakdown of transhumance discipline;
- serious threats to animal health, particularly
from infectious diseases, trypanosomiasis, and
polyparasites; and
- a disorganized and impoverished Livestock Service.



- 10 -
Further to these constraints, there is no national policy that sets forth
priority objectives and means of addressing them. There is inadequate informa-
tion on the parameters of animal health and animal production; i.e., incidence
of major diseases; herd numbers, movements, and productivity; data on pas-
toralist immigration, livestock marketing, imports and exports. In addition,
there is no ongoing applied research on veterinary and zootechnical problems.
1.32      However, these negative factors could be outweighted by positive
considerations; in particular:
-    the technical proficiency of the M'Bororo pastoralists;
-    the good potential for livestock development based
on better husbandry of rejuvenated pasture resource;
-    the successes achieved under the ongoing UNDP-FAO
animal health project; and
-    the Government's readiness to support a coherent live-
stock development program.
1.33      A strategy for the development of the CAE's livestock sector
should be based on three complementary objectives: (a) to improve the
level of human nutrition by encouraging increased milk and meat production
through herd growth and better management; (b) to change the trend towards
further pasture degradation by encouraging pastoralists to adopt a semi-
settled or permanently settled mode of production; (c) to ameliorate living
conditions of livestock producers. To attain these objectives, it will be
necessary to eliminate progressively the constraints outlined in para 1.31.
This requires actions that are highly selective in their impact in the short
term, thus postponing actions on many fronts until the essential improvements
are assured. The short-term priorities are to: (a) safeguard the existing
herd through animal health measures aimed at both redu,cing the incidence of
disease and improving sanitary conditions; (b) effectively extend the area of
usable pasture resources by providing a systematic program of preventive and
curative treatment against trypanosomiasis in the tsetse infested zones
to the south and also, in the same connection, to control transhumance routes;
(c) improve the Livestock Service as the means of carrying out priorities
(a) and (b); (d) inaugurate and test simple pasture-management techniques
and other means of reversing the degradation of the pasture resource; and
(e) study the problems induced by the tsetse threat, and the priority actions,
that would lead to an efficacious follow-up to the actions involved in prior-
ities (a), (b), (c) and (d). This strategy would leave to the future many
actions aimed at long-term livestock production improvements. In particular,
the most important future program will undoubtedly be the development of the
most appropriate means of combating the tsetse challenge - trypanotolerant
herds or reliable preventive and curative threat of the existing Zebu breed
against trypanosomiasis. Future developments could also include animal
traction, intensified methods of cattle production (ranching, feedlots,
dairies, etc.), and development of small ruminants. The proposed project is
aimed at specific means of implementing the short-term strategy outlined
above.



- 1]. -
Il. THE PROJECT AREA
Animal Health Component
2.01      The animal health compo ent would cover the western livestock
region, which is about 200,000 km (Map 13642). This region has an existing
cattle population of 700,000 head and is very well suited for livestock
production.  The climate is tropical, with temperatures of 20-25 C and one
relatively short dry season. Annual precipitation between April/May and
October/November averages 1,400-1,700 mm depending on the latitude. The
Adamaoua plateau, at an average altitude of 1,300 m, extends from Cameroon to
the vicinity of Bouar, Bozoum and Bocaranga. To the northeast, the plateau
declines in small gradients towards the Chari-Chadian basin, and to the
southeast towards the Oubangui River basin. Animal health and production
problems and practices in this region are described in Chapter I.
2.02      In the western region, the Livestock Service is represented by
two veterinarians -- one responsible for the inspection district centered
on Bouar and the other the district centered on Bozoum. The Bouar-based
district is divided into two sectors: Nana-Mambere, supervising the three
subsectors of Bouar, Bahoua, and Baoro with 40 veterinary posts; and the
smaller Berberati sector which supervises 13 veterinary posts. The Bozoum-
based district is composed of three s;ectors, Bozoum, Baoua, and Bocaranga,
with 23 veterinary posts.
2.03      The headquarters complex for the western region at Bouar includes a
veterinary laboratory, now operated by the UNDP-FAO team (para 1.18), and six
houses which would be used by project personnel. The Technical College for
Livestock is adjacent to these facil-ities. Elsewhere in the region, there
are Il dipping tanks which, though unused since 1970, are essentially in good
condition, and six houses belonging to the Livestock Service that would be
made available for project personnel.
The Topia Pilot Zone Area
2.04      Reasons for Choosing this Area - The Topia area has been chosen for
the site of a controlled grazing subproject on the basis of the following
considerations. First, it is typical of the southern areas that are subject
to tsetse infestation into which the livestock producers have moved into
since abandoning the traditional pasture zone to the northwest (para 1.23).
The presence of the livestock producer in the zone is still relatively recent
however, and the pressure of cattle numbers on the pasture resource is moderate.
The degradation of the vegetation is still at an early stage. This latter
point is important, as more rational methods of pasture management should
become effective in a short period of time. Second, conventional agriculture
is limited to strips of land along the public roads. This characteristic
should prevent conflicts between agriculturalists and pastoralists that might
otherwise prejudice the subproject from the beginning. Third, the Topia area



- 12 -
offers material advantages that reduce the need for new investments. It was
selected in the 1960s for a concentrated effort by the Livestock Service.
The tsetse problem was reduced to manageable proportions and a protective
corridor cleared to the intersection of the Danou and the Carnot-Boda road
(Map 13642). Although the tsetse fly has returned, control measures can be re-
instated at modest cost (para 3.14). Some livestock service facilities were
constructed and are still in place: buildings for an animal health center,
and a dipping tank with related animal-control facilities. These installations
would require only modest expenditures to be made usable. Fourth, the pastoral
families in the Topia area have been regular users of medicines available
from the local livestock service agent, who has proved to be one of the most
effective of the agents cooperating with the UNDP-FAO assistance project.
Leaders of the M'Bororo have expressed interest in the measures that are
proposed in the pilot project.  In summary, the livestock producers in the
area are likely to be more receptive to change than any other such group of
pastoralists in the CAE.
2.05      Characteristics of the Topia Area - The population of Topia commune
is estimated at 18,000, the majority living in farming villages alongside
the roads. There are approximately 140 families -- some 700 persons -- who
depend on livestock raising for their livelihood. About 100 families are
M'Bororo and about 40 are Foulbe. Some herds are also owned by Hausa
merchants. The total cattle herd is about 18,000 head. The usual herd size
is about 80 head, although a few families own 500 head or more. There is a
considerable exchange of food products, on a cash basis, between the live-
stock and farm communities. The other economic activity is artisanal diamond
mining.
2.06      The cultural characteristics of the M'Bororo are similar to the
traditional Peuhl tribal pattern, with kinship groups formed under a chief
(ardo). However, the two oldest and most influentia:L ardos in the area
preside over large groups which include families having no kinship link with
the ardo. Camps are constructed of materials at hanm (e.g. straw over bent
poles in the dry season). Possessions are limited to basic clothing and
personal ornaments. The few wealthy families follow this same pattern of
simple living. One ardo designatied by the community provides liaison with the
outside authorities, handling taxies and distribution of ANEC identification
cards; however, this role gives the designated ardo no special authority
outside his own faction.
2.07      The commercial life of the area is dominated by a group of merchant
families, originally from a pastoral background, who make up about 2% of
the settled population. They have a privileged commeXrcial relationship with
the M'Bororo, with whom they have much in common (background, religion, and
cattle ownership). In addition, there are a number of artisanal diamond
miners in the area. Their prospection holes pose a threat to cattle and,
furthermore, the miners have a reputation for anti-social behavior. In
general, however, the M'Bororo have a symbiotic relationship with their
non-pastoralist neighbors.



- 13 -
2.08      Land Tenure.  To prevent possible conflicts between the long
established farmers and the pastoralists, who are relative newcomers, the
Government in the 1960s reserved 40,000 ha of the Topia commune for use
by the livestock producers. Since then a local tradition among the village
population has grown that a division of land-use rights occurs at the Carnot-
Boda road: the land north of the roa,d, from Gombe to Gadzi, is viewed as a
livestock zone, while the land south of the road is viewed as being reserved
for use by the sedentary population. Thus, while there would be no problems
of land-use rights with regard to the subproject, future development projects
would have to take the local tradition into account.
2.09      Road Infrastructure.  Road access to the pilot project zone from
both Bangui and Bouar is very difficult at the moment. The Third Highway
Project financed by IDA covers a part of the road to the pilot zone from
Bangui. The 130 km Gadzi-Yaloke access road (Map 13642) is already included
in the list of roads to be rehabilitated under a joint FED-FAC-FRG financed
project, expected to commence in 197'3/80. During negotiations, Government
gave the assurance that rehabilitation of this road section would be given
high priority under the road project and that in any case rehabilitation would
be completed by January 31, 1981, at the latest.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Summary Description
3.01      The project would be the initial phase of a long-term development
program which would seek to exploit the full potential of the livestock
sector. The principal objectives of the project conform with the strategy
outlined in para 1.33. The proposed four-and-one-half year project would
comprise:
(a) staffing and equipping the Livestock Service to enable it to
provide an adequate animal health program for 700,000 head of
cattle in the western half of the country;
(b) training for staff of the Livestock Service in applied veteri-
nary medicine and animal production through systematic courses for
existing employees, upgraded training for new middle level staff at
the Technical College at Bouar, and specialized courses for senior
staff;
(c)  establishing a revolving fund for the purchase of veterinary
products;
(d) undertaking a pilot proje,t in the Topia Region which would
test simple methods of pasture management based on pre-coopera-
tive herdsmen's associations; and



- 14 -
(e) providing funds for studies and surveys of animal health
problems, pasture resources and the economics of traditional
cattle-raising in order to develop a long-term strategy for the
seccor, including preparation of a follow-up project.
B. Detailed Features
Animal Health and Production
3.02      The success of the proposed animal health program would depend on
an efficient organization, comprehensive work programs, and suitable equipment
for the Livestock Service. The basic operating unit of the health program
would be a network of about 100 veterinary posts each covering a 45 km radius
and about 7,000 head of cattle. Each veterinary post would be headed by an
Animal Health Agent (Agent Technique d'Elevage - AgTE) who would be responsible,
under the technical direction of an Animal Health Officer (Adjoint Technique
d'Elevage - AdTE), for the administration of a packages of animal health
services with the principal elements listed below:
3.03      Treatment of Diseases:  :Prophylactic treatments would be given to
clearly defined classes of animals for protection against the major animal
diseases which are known to be either endemic to the region or to occur
sporadically.  Project management would have flexibili.ty in deciding the exact
nature of veterinary treatments to be administered in light of the situation
on the ground.  However, based on che experience of the UNDP-financed project,
the health program would concentrat-e on treatments against: pleuropneumonia;
foot and mouth disease; rinderpest; blackleg; pasteureliosis; trypanosomiasis;
worm infestation; and ticks (para 5.01).
3.04      The first three diseases on the list above aire contagious, the
control of which is recognized as essential. To ensure that treatments
are carried out regularly, herdsmen would not be charged for vaccines and
other medicines used to combat these diseases. All other medicines would be
sold at cost. AgTE's would be required to administer required veterinary
treatment, except for treatments against worm infestation and tick fever,
which would be administered by herdsmen themselves. Ihis would ensure that
correct dosages are given and a gerLerally high quality of animal health care
is provided.  About seven (chosen in areas which can w'thstand the pressure
of prolonged and continuous grazing) of the il existing dipping tanks would
be reactivated under the proposed project. The use of such tanks would be
supervised by AgTE's.  Each AgTE would be required to visit the herds in his
area of responsibility on a regular basis; motorcycles would be provided under
the project to AgTE's for this purpose.
3.05      Border Controls:  There is a constant trade in live cattle between
the CAE and its neighbors, particularly Chad, Sudan and Cameroon. Any
improvements in animal health conditions in the project area would need to
be vigilantly guarded to prevent possible importations of diseases via live
animals coming from elsewhere. The proposed project would reinforce the
division of the Livestock Service charged with controlling animal movements



- 15 -
across borders. The Inspectorate for the Central Region would be provided
with vaccines, vehicles and trained staff to enable it to properly keep
track of cattle entering or leaving the country, and to vaccinate animals
as required (para 3.03). Two veterinary centers in the western region would
similarly be equipped to control cattle movements into the CAE from Cameroon,
Nigeria and Chad.
3.06      Other services in support of animal health which would be provided
under the project include:
(a) Diagnostic Laboratory: Thes veterinary laboratory at Bouar (para
1.19) would be maintained as a field laboratory. As far as necessary
it would be re-equipped with basic diagnostic facilities. Equipment
to be supplied to the labo-ratory should be simple to operate. The
laboratory would concentrate on diagnoses of diseases and distribu-
tion of animal health products. For this purpose it would be
supplied with sufficient transport facilities.
(b)  Meat Inspection:  To protect the local population from diseases
transmissible to man from animals, the meat inspection service
at the regional level (Bouar) would be reinforced and re-equipped.
The Regional Director of Livestock Services would be responsible
for establishing a program for the control of rabies, which is
known to occur in the area.
(c) Supply of Veterinary Medicines: The limited experiment in
selling veterinary products to herdsmen, initiated in the
UNDP-financed project, would be expanded under the proposed
project. At negotiations, ANEC's administrative budget and
activities program were discussed with Government and agree-
ment was reached on criteria which would govern the propor-
tion of revenues from membership dues which would be allocated
to the purchase of veterinary products (para 1.21). Actual
distribution of such medicines would be carried out by AgTE's
who would keep detailed riecords. A receipt would be kept
by the herdsmen, which would be available for inspection by
the Veterinary Inspectors.
3.07      Animal Production.  The Livestock Service would also be responsible
for the dissemination of information on animal production and marketing to
herdsmen, once its staff has undergone proper training (para 3.09). In view
of the problem of overgrazing and degraded pastures in certain parts of the
project area, herdsmen would be encouraged to modify herd management practices,
essentially by selling unproductive cows at an earlier age than is the custom
now. This would have the beneficial effect of slowîng down the growth in
cattle numbers while increasing offtake. In addition, mineral supplements
would be made available for purchase by herdsmen. Again, as part of the effort
to increase pastoral resources, the Livestock Service through its agents and
in collaboration with the traditional authorities (ardos) would reinstitute the



- 16 -
system of controlling transhumance routes and destinations -- alternating
routes so that the pasture can rienew itself and steering herds to areas which
are known to pose fewer problems of health.  In this way a more balanced
distribution of animals over the available pasture resources would be achieved.
In conjunction with these efforts, a Marketing Officer, working only part-time,
would be employed to supply market information to herdsmen and to potential
purchasers alike. Market opportunities gathered by this officer, would be
passed on to herdsmen through field staff (para 4.06).
3.08      Under the proposed project, the Livestock Service would be re-
equipped and a revolving fund would be established for the purchase of veteri-
nary products for subsequent sale to herdowners. Consequently ANEC's main
intervention in the sector after the commencement of the proposed project
would be the promotion of social development among the M'Bororo -- nutrition,
public health and adult education programs are all nLeeded. ANEC's role as a
channel for herdowners' contributions to livestock development projects would
be modified under the proposed project. It would continue to collect member-
ship fees from livestock owners. However, after deducting its overhead costs,
the costs of its social programs and the salary of the marketing officer (para
4.06), it would pass the remaining funds to the project.  Overhead and other
costs of ANEC have been estimated to be no more than 20% of membership dues
collections in any year.  The remaining 80 percent would be used to support
the project--purchase of veterinaLry products (para 1.21) and support of the
marketing officer (para 4.06) -- and to promote socially oriented programs.
During negotiations, assurances were received from Government that it would
arrange for an audit of ANEC's accounts, and to instruct ANEC to cease direct
operations in the field of animal health by December 31, 1980, or a later date
if agreed to by the co-lenders.
Training
3.09      The training of middle level technicians is undertaken in the
Technical College at Bouar (para 1.22). The current output of about 45
students per year is largely superfluous to an already overstaffed Live-
stock Service. Further, graduates are poorly trained since most instruc-
tors are themselves recent graduates of this or an equivalent institution.
There is a need to reorient training to provide a more practical focus and
to upgrade the skills of existing field staff of the Service on applied
veterinary measures. Courses on animal production and extension service
techniques would also be implemented. The project would therefore provide
qualified teaching staff, including a full time livestock education specialist
who would be appointed as Principal of the Bouar Col:Lege. A systematic
program of retraining would be initiated for all existing field staff in the
project area. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that it would determine the annual intake of students so that the annual
number of graduates from the four--year cycle for training "Agents Techniques
de l'Elevage" does not exceed 15. In all, four specialists, including one to
be recruited internationally, would serve as full-timle teaching staff, whilst
the Principal Inspector of the Livestock Service, West, the Head of the Bouar
Laboratory and the Manager of the Topia Pilot Project would assist as part-
time staff.
3.10      The project would retra:in about 120 middle-level technicians over
four years in 4-6 week cycles which would include a minimum of 2-3 weeks of
practical work in the field, built: around a specific theme such as health and



- 17 -
nutrition problems of calves, a vaccination campaign, and herd and pasture
management. As far as possible the Topia Pilot Project would be used for
field training sessions. In addition, the regular four-year course for AgTE's
would have an amended curriculum in which general studies (French, mathematics,
general science) would be reduced from their present levels (from about 35% of
the course to about 20%) and animal production problems would be given in-
creased emphasis (from nothing at present to about 25% of classroom work).
Besides animal pathology (25%) and basic veterinary science (20%), classroom
instruction would also cover the language and culture of the M'Bororo. The
details of an appropriate curriculum would be finalized by the Principal of
the College assisted by other key project personnel. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that this curriculum would be drawn up and submitted
to IDA for approval, at the latest by March 31, 1980. The project would
provide a 4-wheel-drive passenger truck and camping equipment to enable
students to undertake field trips designed to familiarize them with practical
aspects of animal health and production. Senior staff of the Livestock
Service would also be sponsored for courses of specialization in institutions
which offer training in tropical livestock (para 4.09).
Topia Pilot Project
3.11      The observed degradation of pasture resources in the traditional
livestock zones in the northwest has led some herdsmen to become semi-
sedentary in certain parts of the project area. Even more important, the
center of the livestock zone has shifted, with pastoralists moving much
further south in the dry season but not moving back as far north during
the rainy season. This trend is expected to continue. These areas, fur-
ther south and with rainfall in 7-8 months out of 12, have abundant year-
round grazing but frequently are tsetse infested (para 2.04). A pilot
project would be initiated in an area, the Topia, typical of these new zones
and would have as objectives:
(a) to refine simple methods of pasture management which
would help reverse the tEndency of pasture areas to
be overrun by ligneous species if grazing is not
controlled (para 1.25);
(b) to test the feasibility of organizing pre-cooperative
herdsmen's associations which can take an active part
in managing the pasture resources on which their
livelihood depends; and
(c) to carry out limited (on about 50 ha) pasture improve-
ment trials.
Results obtained would be of interest to the livestock sector as a whole
since the problems treated are sector-wide. The organizational aspect
(objective (b) above) would become increasingly important as transhumance
gradually gives way to a semi-settled mode of production. To ensure that
the range management aspects of this pilot project have a maximum chance



- 18 -
of success, animal health coverage in the zone would be somewhat more in-
tense than in the western region as a whole. It is expected that there
would be one middle-level veterinary agent per 4,000 animals compared to
one per 7,000 in the western region as a whole.
3.12      The techniques proposed are simple and likely to be accepted by
herdsmen. Such techniques would, of course, be further refined by the
manager of the pilot scheme who would be guided by a preliminary study of
the cattle herd and pasture resources in the Topia, to be conducted by an
agrostologist at the beginning of PY1 (para 3.14). Under the pilot project
pasture management would consist of (a) delimiting grazing areas; (b) allo-
cating the use of each grazing area to a particular herdsman (or to herdsmen);
(c) limiting the number of animals that can be grazed thereon; (d) determin-
ing at the beginning of each seascn whether that piece of land would be
left fallow or grazed. The intention is to use each parcel successively for
wet season grazing, fallow, dry season grazing, fallow again and then back
to the beginning of the cycle. The length of time that animals can graze
on each parcel in the course of a given season would also be regulated.
Further, the timing of brush fires would also be strictly controlled. Brush
fires would be permitted on land which has recently been fallow and then only
at the end of the dry season.
3.13      The techniques describedL above would require discipline on the
part of project participants. To ensure this, pre-cooperative herdsmen' s
associations would be organized with the help of traditional headmen (ardos)
and of ANEC. Each herd owner would continue to own and control his cattle
but would belong to an association which would have exclusive and permanent
grazing rights on clearly defined pasture areas. Pre-cooperative associations
of herdsmen in the Topia zone would be properly constituted in accordance with
enabling legislation and statutes satisfactory to IDA. A condition for dis-
bursement against expenditures for the Topia scheme, other than expenditures
required to bring the scheme about, would be the enactment of this enabling
legislation and the assignment of demarcated pasture areas to constituted
associations. In return for exclusive grazing rights herdowners would be
required to respect the norms on pasture management decided by their associa-
tion based on technical advice by the manager of the pilot project. Essen-
tially, these would imply strict adherence to the techniques described in para
3.12 above.
3.14      The Topia project zone lias been tentatively divided into three
pilot scheme areas, where herdsmen's associations would have exclusive grazing
rights, and a buffer zone (Map 13643). In all, 7,000 cattle in the pilot
scheme areas and a further 11,000 in the buffer zone would be affected. The
organization and techniques described above would be put in operation in Pilot
Scheme Area I during the pre-project phase (para 3.16). The initial period
would be devoted to construction and repair of buildings, firebreaks and a
dipping tank, and clearing of river bank areas to create a natural tsetse
barrier. The manager of the pilot: project would then supervise a study of the
pasture resources and an inventory of the cattle herd. in the Topia zone
(para 3.12). On the basis of this study, usable pasture areas and the limits
of the sub-areas within the pilot project zone would be demarcated. The



- 1]9 -
assignment of particular grazing areas to groups of herdsmen would be decided
by the leadership of pre-cooperative associations. An intensive animal health
and production campaign would then be undertaken which would concentrate on
de-worming calves and encouraging the use of feed supplements. This campaign
would serve to demonstrate to herdoiers the potential advantages of the
technical expertise that the staff of the pilot project can provide. It would
correspondingly allow the staff to become familiar with the socio-economic
context in which herdowners operate. Only after a positive evaluation of
Pilot Scheme Sub-Area I activities has been made (possibly after two dry
seasons) the proposed organization and techniques would be applied by manage-
ment to Pilot Scheme Areas II and III.
Studies
3.15      A series of studies would be undertaken as part of the proposed
project to compile, update and analyze information on the livestock sector in
order to produce a development strategy including follow-up project proposals.
These studies would comprise:
(a)  Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Study:  This would involve updating
a 1963 map of tsetse and trypanosomiasis incidence, a compilation
of the ecological conditions favored by the fly and, on these
bases, elaboration of a tsetse eradication program as well as
a prophylactic program for trypanosomiasis;
(b) Pastoral Resources Survey: It would comprise a LANDSAT survey
to identify erosion areas and pasture/grazing potential areas in
the western region, i.e. west of the traditional north-south
cattle route from Batangafo to Bangui (Map 13642); and
(c) Preparation of a Follow-up Project: An experienced agricultural
economist would head a team which would assemble all the information
(including (a) and (b) above as well as that produced in the course
of implementing the project), analyze such data and propose a
development strategy for the sector and alternatives for a follow-up
project. These would take account of nutritional considerations and
possible new roles for such institutions as ANEC.
The studies would require about 44 man-months of consultants services.
Consultants would be required to have experience, qualifications and terms-
of-reference acceptable to IDA. This was confirmed during negotiations.
Draft terms of reference for consultants are in the Project File; a summary is
at Appendix 1.
3.16      Implementation Schedule.  Implementation would begin when the
Project Manager is in place, whose appointment would be a condition of
effectiveness. An indicative list of pre-implementation activities for the
Project Manager is at Appendix 2. An implementation schedule for the Topia
Pilot Project is shown on Chart 19122.



- 20 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.17      Cost estimates are based on:  prices quoted by locally-based sup-
pliers of vehicles, equipment and veterinary products; local staff salaries
paid in the civil service; and vehicle operating and maintenance cost ex-
perience of an international aid agency, a Government department and a
private trader. Total costs in mid-1979 terms are estimated at CFAF 2,850
million (US$13 million). The estimate excludes duties on items imported
expressly for the project but includes excise taxes estimated at CFAF 356
million (US$1.6 million). GoverrLment has decided to waive duties on all items
imported for project purposes as it did for the recently approved Third
Highway Project (Cr. 847-CA). Fc,reign expenditures account for CFAF 1,280
million (US$5.8 million) or 45% of total project cost.  The costs of expatri-
ate personnel, including benefits and allowances, average US$8,000 per
man-month; those of short-term consultants average US$9,200 per man-month,
including travel expenses.
3.18      Estimated costs include physical and price contingencies calculated
as follows:
(a) physical contingencies of 15% on all civil works, 20% on costs
for operations, maintenance and supplies, and 10% on vehicles and
equipment; and
(b) price contingencies have been based on expected increases in
prices for different expenditure items as follows:
Table 1: Expected Rates of Price Changes (%)
1979  1980  1981   1982   1983
Civil Works, Operations and Maintenance         3.0    9.0   9.0    8.0    8.0
Vehicles, Equipment and Expatriate Salaries  3.0    7.5   7.5    7.0    7.0
Costs are summarized in the table on the next page and a yearly breakdown is
given in Annex 1.



- 21 -
Table 2 - Project Cost Summary
Percent
C:FAF Million            US$ Million           of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
A.  Animal Health Subproject
Local Personnel                         746.3      -     746.3    3.4        -      3.4
Expatriate Personnel                     96.6    289.9  386.5    0.5        1.3     1.8
Vehicles and Equipment                   33.3    133.0  166.3    0.2        0.6     0.8
Operations and Maintenance               98.6      65.7  164.3    0.4       0.3     0.7
Civil Works                              28.8      45.7   74.5    0.1       0.2     0.3
Sub-total                            1003.6    534.3 1537.9    4.6       2.4      7.0      63
B.  Topia Pilot Project
Local Personnel                          31.9      -      31.9    0.1        -      0.1
Expatriate Personnel                     30.4      91.2  121.6    0.2       0.4     o.6
Vehicles and Equipment                    7.4      29.4   36.8      *       0.1     0.2
Operations and Maintenance               67.C      44.7  111.7    0.3       0.2     0.5
Civil Works,                             32.9      39.0   71.9    0.1      0.2      0.3
Sub-total.                            169.6    204.3  373.9    o.8       0.9      1.7      15
C.  Technical College
Local Personnel                          55.2      -      55.2    0.3        -      0.3
Expatriate Personnel                     22.0      66.o   88.0    0.1       0.3     0.4
Vehicles and Equipment                    4.7'    18.9   23.6       *        *      0.1
Operations and Maintenance               30.8      42.5   73.3    0.1      0.2      0.2
Civil Works                               4.3       5.0    9.3      *       *        *
Sub-total                             117.0    132.4  249.4    0.5       o.6      1.1      10
D.  Veterinary Medicines/Vaccines              3.7     70.8   74.5      *       0.3     0.3       3
E.  Studies
Local Personnel                          19.8      -      19.8    0.1       -       0.1
Consultants (expatriate)                  9.5      85.8   95.3      *      o.4      G.4
Vehicles and Equipment                    3.1      12.2   15.3      *               0.1
Operations and Maintenance               34.7      23.2   57.9    0.1      0.1      C.2
Landsat                                  -         35.2   35.2      -      0.2      0.2
Sub-total                              67.-1    156.4  223.5    0.3      0.7      1.0       9
TOTAL BASE COST                        1361.0   1098.2 2459.2    6.2       5.0    11.2      100
Physical Contingencies (4.6%)            62.4      51.1  113.5    0.3      0.2      0.5
Expected Price Increases (11%) 1/       155.Q    126.8  281.8    0.7       o.6      1.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     1578.4   1276.1 2854.5    7.2       5.8    13.0
Taxes                                   356.4      -     356.4    1.6       -       1.6
Total Net-of-Tax Cost                  1222.0   1276.1 2498.1    5.6       5.8    11.4
1/ Percent of base cost plus physical contingencies
* Less than US$100,000



- 22 -
D. PropDsed Financing Plan
3.19      The financing plan pres,ented in the table below is premised on:
(a) limiting Government's contribution to the f inancing
of local staff salaries, most of which it pays now, albeit
irregularly;
(b)  a contribution from participating herdsmen through ANEC, which
would cover 67% of the cost of veterinary products; and
(c) sufficient funds from external sources to cover the remainder
of project costs (77% of total net-of-tax cost).
Table 3: Proposed Financing Plan
(US'$ Million net of taxes)
IDA/EEC
Government   Herdsmen        ADF/IFAD       Total
1.   Expatriate Salaries              -                            2.6         2.6
2.   Local Salaries                  2.4                           0.9         3.3
3.   Vehicles and Equipment           -                            1.1         1.1
4.   Operations and Maintenance    -                               1.6         1.6
5.   Civil Works                      -            -               0.7         0.7
6.   Veterinary Supplies              -           0.2              0.1         0.3
7.   Studies                          -            -               1.0         1.0
8.   Unallocated                      -            -               0.8         0.8
Total                           2.4          0.2             8.8        11.4
Percent of Total              21             2              77         100
3.20       It is proposed that an I]DA Credit of US$2.5 million be made to
finance 22% of costs net of taxes and duties. IFAD and ADF would make loans
equivalent to US$2.5 million and US$3.3 million, respectively, on terms
similar to IDA's. The above funds would be disbursed pari-passu by IDA, ADF
and IFAD under an agreed ratio ancL deposited in the Project Account to be kept
under the control of the projet management unit in Bangui, headed by the
Co-Director of the Livestock Service (para 4.01). In addition, IDA, acting
as administrator of the EEC Special Action Account, would make a credit
equivalent to US$0.5 million. Total external financing would thus cover the
equivalent of foreign exchange cost estimated at CFAF 1,280 million (US$5.8
million) and 54% of local costs amlounting to CFAF 660 million (US$3.0 million).
It would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit that
Government had concluded co-financing agreements, satisfactory to IDA, with
ADF and IFAD.
3.21       Government's contribution to project financing (CFAF 528 million
or US$2.4 million equivalent net of taxes) would cover 73% of the salaries of



- 23 -
local employees of the Livestock Service in the Western Region totalling CFAF
726 million (US$3.3 million). The payment of staff-related salaries would be
made each month and in advance to a Project Account to be controlled by the
Co-Director of the Livestock Service. A condition for effectiveness would be
that Government establish the Project Account and deposit therein an initial
amount of CFAF 90 million (US$410,000 equivalent). Assurances were obtained
that thereafter, each month and in advance, Government would deposit the sums
required to meet the payment of the salaries of all CAE staff of the Livestock
Service in the Western Region. In order to protect the national herd against
potential outbreaks of contagious diseases (CBPP, foot-and-mouth and rinder-
pest, para 5.01), some of the treatments to be administered by the Livestock
Service would be without charge (para 3.04). Veterinary products against
other diseases would be sold at cost to participating herdsmen. Vaccines and
other veterinary products would be purchased from a revolving fund forming a
sub-account of the Project Account. The annual contribution of beneficiary
herdsmen to project financîng - CFAF 18 million (US$80,000) - would correspond
to 75 percent of the annual dues collected by ANEC (para 1.21) and be passed
on to the Project Account. Such monies would be used for the purchase of
veterinary products. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that it would instruct ANEC to contribute to the project an appro-
priate proportion of the dues paid by herdsmen in each of the four years of
project implementation.
E. Procurement
3.22      Except for items specified below, procurement would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank Group Guidelines. ICB
would involve civil works, vehicles aLnd equipment for a total of about US$2.4
million. In evaluating bids for civil works, local contractors would be
allowed a 7.5% preference. To the extent feasible, purchases of vehicles and
equipment would be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk pro-
curement. Locally manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% or
the level of applicable import duty, whichever is lower, when comparing domes-
tic with foreign bids. Contracts for US$100,000 equivalent or less, which
would not cumulatively exceed US$0.6 million and would not be large enough to
attract international bids, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Expatriate staff and
consulting services costing about US!'3.8 million would be obtained according
to IDA's Guidelines for Consulting Services.



- 24 -
F. Disbursement
3.23      The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit (US$2.5 million) would be
disbursed over five years. The amounts allocated and the percentages of
expenditures to be financed would be as follows:
Category                          US$ Thousand   % Financed
I    Civil Works                                 210              30
II    Vehicles and Equipment                      330               30
III    Operations and Maintenance                  480               30
IV    Veterinary Products                          30               10
V    Expatriate Staff Salaries                   630              30
VI    Local Staff Salaries                        270                8
VII    Studies and Surveys                         300               30
US$250,000 would be unallocated.  Disbursements against Categories I, II, IV,
V, VI and VII would be fully documented. Disbursements against Category III
would be made against certificates of expenditure, with the supporting docu-
mentation retained by the project management and made available for inspection
during IDA supervision missions. The proceeds of the EEC Special Action
Credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of the salaries of expatriate
staff. Disbursement of the IDA Credit under this category would commence when
the Special Action Credit is fully disbursed. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is at Annex 6.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.24      A Chief Accountant/Administrative Officer would be recruited inter-
nationally (para 4.01) and would be responsible for budgeting and accounting
for all project expenditures. Proper budgeting, cost control, and full scale
audits would be critical during project implementation. Assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations that it would:
(a)  cause project management to prepare ainual programs and budgets
for the Livestock Service and ANEC, and submit them to IDA for
approval at least three months before the fiscal year begins;
and establish a system to collect and control revenue from the
sale of veterinary products;
(b)  cause the first year's budget and program to be submitted to
IDA for approval no later than March 31, 1980; and
(c) cause project and ANEC's accounts to be audited at least once a
year by persons or firms with experience, qualifications and terms-
of-reference acceptable to IDA, and that the results of such audits
would be communicated to IDA at the latest four months after the
end of each fiscal year.



- 25 -
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
4.01      Project Management.  The proposed project would be executed by the
Livestock Service of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Chart 19123).
At present, the department has inadequately trained personnel and has neither
a coherent program nor the means to carry it out if it had one (paras 1.14-16).
To rebuild the department, technical assistance personnel would be recruited
internationally to complement and train existing staff. Chief among such
internationally recruited personnel would be a veterinarian with livestock
development experience in tropical areas who would be Project Manager, with
the functions and title of Co-Director of the Livestock Service. Based
in Bangui and assisted by a Chief Accountant/Administrative Officer, the
Project Manager would have overall responsibility for the implementation of
the various components of the proposed project. In addition he would contri-
bute to the formulation of a livestock development strategy for the country
and ensure coordination of development projects in the sector as a whole.
He would also assist ANEC in establishing their annual program of activities.
The Chief Accountant/Administrative Officer would be responsible for all
procurement and for project personnel administration in addition to managing
financial and accounting systems for the proposed project. In addition, he
would assist ANEC in preparing annual budgets and statements of accounts.
Project activities would be implemen,ted on the basis of annual programs and
budgets to be prepared by the Project Management in consultation with the
Director of the Livestock Service and ANEC's Secretary General (see para
3.24).
4.02      Animal Health.  The Animal Health subproject would be under the
supervision of an internationally recruited veterinarian who would be named
as Principal Inspector of the Livestock Service, Western Region (PILS-West).
As a line manager in the Service, he would report to the Co-Director of
the Livestock Service (para 4.01) and would have full responsibility for
the day-to-day management of all livestock activities in the Western Region --
the Technical College, the laboratory, the Pilot Project and all field staff.
In the area of animal health, he would operate through three Inspectors
(all CAE veterinarians) who would irn turn manage a network of veterinary
centers and posts. The veterinary post (there would be about 100 in all)
would be the basic unit of field act:ivity. Each would be headed by an AgTE
and the phase-in of veterinary posts would be timed to correspond to the
retraining program proposed for existing AgTE's (para 3.09). A veterinary
post would have a minimum supply of veterinary products and instruments,
and would have responsibility for supplying and administering veterinary
products, keeping records, and advising herdsmen within a 45 km radius.
Each post is expected to cover some 7,000 head of animals. The duties of the
AgTE in charge of a post are those discussed in detail in paras 3.02-3.05 and



- 26 -
may be summarized as follows: the person would ble the medium for the transmis-
sion of improved animal production and health tec'hniques to herdsmen as well
as the conduit for reporting their problems back to senior technicians of the
Livestock Service.
4.03      There would be about 16 veterinary centiers, each headed by an AdTE
who would supervise 6-8 veterinary posts.  Veterinary center chiefs would
supply the veterinary posts with vaccines and medicines, coordinate and
supervise major vaccination campaigns, ensure that adequate records of animals,
disease incidence and sales of medicines are kept by veterinary posts have
overall responsibility for maintaining dipping tanks including the supply of
insecticides. Proceeds from sales of veterinary products would be collected
by the veterinary posts and transferred at least twice a month to the Project
Account through the Veterinary Centers and Inspectorates. Three veterinary
centers would also have additional responsibility for controlling cattle
movements across CAE's frontiers with neighboring countries.
4.04      At present, there are two Veterinary Inspection Districts in the
Western Region, those of Bouar (West) and Bozoum (North-West). With the
growth in the total herd and as more and more her,dsmen and animals have moved
further south in search of beLter pasture, a third Inspectorate has become
necessary and would be established at Djomo in thie southern part of the
project area which, in addition to the large number of its transhumant cattle
population in the dry season, also has a sizeable semi-settled population of
herdsmen. The three inspectors would thus comprise the first level of execu-
tive cadre of the Tiyvestoc1k zarvice in the field.
4.05      The existing veterinary laboratory at Bouar--re-equipped under
the project--would be headed by an internationally recruited parasitologist
who would be assisted by a local veterinarian. In addition to their responsi-
bilities in diagnosis, laboratory staff would supply veterinary products to
the Veterinary Centers and would also advise on specifications for and test
vaccines and other pharmaceutical products to be purchased under the project.
The laboratory head would report to the PILS-West and would be assigned
teaching responsibilities in the Technical College.
4.06      In addition to extension advice by field agents on herd management
practices, a Marketing Officer's position would be created under the project
to help improve marketing information flows to herdsmen and purchasers alike.
The incumbent should be someone who knows the sitluation intimately: a retired
employee of the pre-Agrarian Reform Livestock Service, or a Hausa trader work-
ing parttime would be ideal. His job would consist of gathering information on
marketing opportunities--such as types and numbers of animals sought, terms of
sale, price--and communicating this on a regular 'basis to herdsmen through the
extension agents. Herdsmen wishing to sell cattle would also be put in touch
with potential buyers via the same chain. The Marketing Officer, as is the
custom, would continue to arrange his own commissions with herdsmen and cattle
traders and would be paid a small retainer out of ANEC's funds (para 3.08).
4.07      Topia Pilot Project management would be entrusted to an experienced
Range Manager, to be recruited internationally, who would work under the



- 27 -
direction of PILS-West. He would be assisted by a CAF veterinarian. The
pilot project manager would initially oversee the repair and/or construction
of fire-breaks, interior routes, dipping tanks and buildings required in the
pilot project zone. He would also supervise an initial summary inventory of
herd numbers and composition, pasture resources and the animal health situa-
tion at Topia. He would then delimit grazing areas and be responsible sub-
sequently for supervising the day-to-day operations of the Pilot Project. An
implementation schedule is shown in Chart 19122. Animal health services in
the pilot zone would be provided by staff of the Inspection District to be
located at Djomo which is close to the pilot project area. There would be a
fully equipped veterinary center in the project area itself.
B. Staff Training, Incentives and Recruitment
4.08      Technical College:  A spec:ialist in the training of animal health
and production workers would be recruited internationally to run the College.
His responsibilities would cover al] aspects of the training programs dis-
cussed in this and in the next paragraph, including recruitment of students,
supervision of professors, revision of curricula, operations of the college's
model herd, and financial control. The Principal would report to the Project
Manager at Bangui through PILS-West and would coordinate with the latter in
the phasing-in of veterinary centers and posts in conjunction with the train-
ing of existing field staff. There would be three other full time professors
at the College including an Assistant Principal (CAE veterinarian). The
PILS-West (para 4.02) and the parasiLtologist (para 4.05) would also serve
as part-time teaching staff. Three AdTE's would also serve on the staff as
Demonstrators and would be responsible primarily for operating the College's
model cattle herd, and poultry and pig farms.
4.09      In addition to training for middle-level technicians as described in
the preceding paragraph, the project: would also make provision for the train-
ing of high-level staff. Essentially, this would consist of brief specialized
courses in higher institutions in Africa and elsewhere. Specifically, six out
of the existing twelve veterinarians (para 1.15) would take the course on animal
production problems in tropical countries given by the IEMVT, Paris (or
equivalent training); a veterinarian who would eventually work in the labor-
atory would be given specialised training in entomology-trypanology to enable
him to participate in the preliminary tsetse infestation study for the Pilot
Project; another veterinarian would specialize in the problems of internal
parasites and would work as the Deputy to the Head of the laboratory; and
finally, an agriculturalist would be trained in agrostology and range manage-
ment after working for the first year of project implementation as the
deputy to the manager of the Pilot Plroject.
4.10      Incentives.  All executive-level staff would need special incen-
tives to compensate for the difficu]ty of living in isolated rural areas and
for the hardships in the frequent travel which would be required. In the
case of internationally recruited personnel, there is the added risk that if



- 28 -
conditions prove unsatisfactory, the heavy cost of recruitment and resettle-
ment would have been wasted if they choose not to stay on. For these reasons,
during negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)  adequate permanent housing for all executiLve-level staff both
in Bangui and in the fi:eld would be provicled before January 1,
1980; and
(b)  local staff at all levels would be given trek allowances
varying from CFAF 800 (US$3.65) per day to amounts con-
sistent with existing practices in agencies involved in
development projects (e.g. UNDP and FRG bilateral aid).
4.11       Staff Recruitment.  Project imp]ementation in the CAE would not be
an easy task. Furthermore, internationally recruited staff willing to reside
in isolated rural areas in CAE would probably be dif-ficult to find. In order
to safeguard timely supervision and assistance in technical and administra-
tive matters internationally recruited staff would be provided by a consulting
firm. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would
appoint (or cause to be appointed) to the following key positions, persons
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to IDA:
(a) Co-Director of the Livestock Service; (b) PrinciLpal Inspector of the Live-
stock Service for the Western Region; (c) Principal, Technical College for
Livestock; (d) Manager, Topia Pilot Project; (e) Ch:Lef Accountant/Administra-
tive Officer, Livestock Service; (f) Head, Veterinary Laboratory, Bouar; (g)
Assistant Principal, Technical College for Livestock; and (h) Marketing
Officer.  The latter two would be recruited locally.  Government has invited
several consulting firms to submit proposals to supply the required technical
assistance. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Co-Director of
the Livestock Service (Project Mianager), the Manager of the Topia Project and
the Chief Accountant/Administrative Officer be employed and in post. An assur-
ance was obtained from Government that all local key project staff would be
assigned to or transferred from the project only with the joint agreement of
the Director and co-Director of the Livestock Service.
C. Administrative ProcedureZs
4.12       As is made evident elsewhere in this report, information on the
livestock sector in CAE is scant. In the process oif implementation of the
proposed project, an effort would be made to institute an information system
which would serve immediate project management purposes as well as provide
the necessary background information for further wor2k in the sector. The
design of monthly and other reports would take into account the other duties
of AgTE's as well as their level of training. Reports envisaged (described
in Appendix 3) would cover four main areas:



-- 29 -
(a)  Activity report:  Veterinary post chiefs would be required to
list the numbers and types of diseases reported to them and/or
treated by them, location of the herd concerned, the kind of
treatment and any other action undertaken;
(b)  Inventory cards for drugs:  This report would seek to keep track
of the sale and/or distribution of veterinary products and would
thus provide a check on the financial status of the revolving
fund (para 3.06c);
(c)  Herdsmen's file in which veterinary agents would record data such
as the name of the head of the family, the number of family members,
transhumance routes during the dry season, and number and type of
animals in herd; and
(d)  Herd Composition Statistics based on a standard form developed
by IEMVT and in current use in many West African countries.
Regular keeping of such data would serve as an important part
of the process of developing a strategy for the livestock sector
and preparing further projects.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that a half-yearly
report summarizing overall project progress and based on the elements of the
information system as described above would be compiled by the Project Manager
and sent to IDA by September 30, and March 31, of each year after the project
commences. In addition, a vehicle log book would record for each vehicle,
mileage, purpose, authorizing officer, petroleum and lubricant use, and repair
and maintenance expenditures. Officers who would sanction the use of vehicles
would be denominated by the Project Manager and would be limited to the
minimum required for efficiency. The use of such procedures would help
to reduce waste and would also serve as a demonstration of administrative
efficiency which is presently lacking in the Livestock Service.
V. PRODUCTION TECHNIQUES
A. Animal Health and Production Measures
5.01      The animal health program would concentrate on key diseases iden-
tified in the present UNDP-financed project as being the most in need of
attention. The list of diseases, the susceptible class of animals and the
treatment regime proposed would be as follows:



- 30 -
Table 4: Disease Control Prcgram
Susceptible
Disease           Class of Animals        Treatment Frequercy             Remarks
Pleuropneumonia  Ail                      i x per year               Appears to be con-
tained by UNDP Pro-
ject but systematic
treatments should
be continued
Foot-and-Mouth   All imported cattle   At moment of entry            In addition, security
and with follow-up         stocks of vaccines
as necessary               should be kept to
control local out-
breaks
Rinderpest        Imported animals
,Blackleg          Calves under 3 yrs    1 x yr in infected areas
Pasteurellosis   All                      1 x yr before the rains
Trypanosomiasis  All                      Preventive treatment       Curative treatments
before transhumance        would be required
begins; curative           for about 30% of
treatment year round      herd in any year
for affected animals
Worm Infestation 0-1 yr old calf             2 x year
Tick Fever        All                        As required
Measures would also be instituted for stricter control of cattle movements into
the CAE (para 3.05), and for more regular inspection of meat at retail markets
(para 3.06). Only treatments against the last two diseases would be carried out
by herdsmen themselves; Animal Health Agents would be responsible for the rest
(para 3.04).
5.02      In addition to disease prevention and control, field staff of the
livestock service would be expected to give advice to herdsmen on animal
production techniques. Efforts would be made to encourage the use of mineral
supplements. At present, cows are milked for the needs of the herdsmen's
families as well as for sale, thus reducing the amount available for calves
(para 1.27). Given the needs of the family and its mode of living, this
practice is likely to change only gradually as alternative foods are accepted
by the M'Bororo. In the meantime improved pasture and better husbandry



- 31 -
methods appear to be the best means of improving milk yield and weight gain.
Increased milk production in cows would raise the nutritional standard of
calves, decrease calf mortality and finally increase the amount of milk
available for human consumption and sale. Another theme which would be
stressed in livestock extension work would be the desirability of selling cows
at an earlier age than is the current practice (para 3.07).
B.  Impact on Herd Productivity
5.03      Information on present herd composition is based on a very limited
sample: a census of 8 herds numbering less than 10,000 animals conducted by
staff of the UNDP-financed project in 1977 (details in Project File). Inter-
views of herdsmen suggests a fertility rate of 60% and a mortality rate among
calves less than a year old of about 40%. On this basis, and by iteration
theoretical survival and offtake rates have been deduced such that the result-
ing herd composition most closely resembles that observed in the UNDP census
cited above. The herd structure thus obtained also resembles one observed in
another study conducted in the CAE in 1966. The resulting production coeffi-
cients, on which the herd development model (Annex 2) is based, are assumed to
remain unchanged over the years without the project:
Table 5: Production Coefficients
(Without Project: Percent)
Maie      Female      Total
Age at First Calving (yrs)                   N/A          4
Calving Rate                                 N/A         60
Calf Mortality Rate (0-1 yr)                 40          40           40
1-2 yrs old   "      "                       10          10           10
2-3 yrs old"                                  5           5            5
Over 3 yrs and Adult  "   "                   2           2            2
Offtake Rates 1/                              4.9         4.4          9.3
Herd Growth Rate                                                       0.4
Total Herd Productivity                                                9.7
_/   Percent of the total herd.
5.04      As a result of the animal health and production measures of the
proposed project, mortality among ca:Lves less than a year old would be
reduced gradually to 20% from the present level. The expected reduction in
calf mortality is judged to be an attainable target because (i) calves are
easily accessible, being tethered close to herdsmen's huts most of the day;
(ii) the high mortality rate is caused mostly by internal parasites which can
be controlled; (iii) improved pastures and better management practices would
lead to higher milk production resulting in a better nutritional standard and
survival rate of calves; and (iv) herdsmen are conscious of the economic
importance of the effects of this epidemic as evidenced by their frequent



- 32 -
requests for appropriate medicine, and would theref-ore buy and administer such
remedies. Mortality rates amongj older animals are expected to fall by more
modest proportions (1-2 percentage points). The w:Lth-project herd development
model (Annex 3) also assumes that overall herd growth would stabilize at 3.4%
after PY15 and the female off-take rate would increase correspondingly.
Production coefficients comparable to those reproduced in Table 5 above for
milestone years in the with-pro,ject situation would be as follows:
Table 6:  Production Coefficients
(With-Project: Percent)
PY 5                   PYlO                   PYl5
Male Female Total Male Fema:Le Total Male Female Total
Calving Rate                 61                     62                     62
Calf Mortality Rate 28       28      28      20     20    20        20     20      20
(0-1 yr)
Mortality Rate         8      8       8       8      8      8        8      8       8
(1-2 yrs)
Mortality Rate         4      4       4       4      4      4        4      4       4
(2-3 yrs)
Adult Mortality Rate 2        2       2       2      2      2        2      2       2
Offtake Rates          4.7    4.2    8.9    5.8    3.8   9.6         6.3    5.0   11.3
Ilerd Growth Rate                     3.2                   5.5                     3.4
Total Herd Productivity              12.1                  15.1                   14.7
(N.B.: PYO would be as in Tablie 5 above.)
The overall effect of project actions would be to iincrease herd productivity
in the form of a faster rate of growth in the herd and/or higher offtake
rates.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Output
6.01      The increases in productivity discussed in Chapter V would be
the effect of a larger national herd with improved productivity resulting in



- 33 -
more meat and milk as a basis for raising nutritional standards. Owing to
the state of the pasture in the traditional livestock zones, it is imperative
that the distribution of the larger herd over the available pasture is
balanced. The project, therefore, would try to control transhumance, encour-
age settlement of pastoralists, and limit stock numbers. Ultimately, however,
the area of usable pastures should be extended. This would require that
the tsetse problem be brought to manageable proportions in the southern
part of the project area where there exist pasture resources which but for
the tsetse would be more than adequate. The studies envisaged under the
proposed project would address this priority problem (para 3.15). For the
short-term, herdowners would be encouraged to modify their herd management
practices, in particular, by selling off a larger proportion of adult cows
at an earlier age than they do now (para 3.07).
6.02      The financial analysis assumes that herd management behaviour
would change with the project as indicated in paras 5.02 - 5.05. The herd
development models at Annex 2, Annex 3 and Annex 4 detail the changes in
production which would occur without and with the project. The table below is
based on these annexes and summarizes the expected increases in production.
Table 7: Increases in Production
(Western Region)
PY5      PYIO       PY15
1.   Increase in Slaughtered Animals 1/         400    23,500    47,100
2.   Meat and Offal Equivalent (t)               82     4,841      9,702
3.   Incremental Herd Growth 2/              54,300   267,900   453,400
4.   Total Increase in Herd with Project  68,000   295,600   495,300
5.   Value of Increase 3/ (CFAF Million)   1,156        5,478    11,594
(US$ Million)    5.3       24.9       52.7
6.   Incremental Milk Production (t)          2,000    10,300    15,100
7.   Value of Item 6   (CFAF million)            60       309        453
(US$     "  )            0.3        1.4       2.1
1/   Number of animals sold or slaughtered for family consumption with
project less expected number without project.  It is assumed that
percentage of animals in each age/sex class sold/consumed would
remain the same with project as without up to year 15 when herd
growth stabilizes at 3.4% and all female animals not required to
maintain this rate are sold.
2/   Increase in herd numbers after sales and family consumption with
project less similar change expected without project.
3/   Live animal value; based on prices as in para 6.03, and weighted
by herd composition, in constant 1978 prices.



- 34 -
B. Markets and Prices
6.03      Marketing of live animals is through traditional channels, which
comprise local merchants who buy animal-by-animal from herdsmen at the
latter's place of residence.  Animals are collected until a large enough
number is obtained to make it worth the trader's while to pay a drover to
take the animals to the main consumption center, Bargui. Prices paid for
animals on the hoof currently vary from CFAF 15,000 (US$68) for a male calf
to about CFAF 60,000 (US$270) for a well-formed bull. Given the dressing-out
percentages for the different kinds of animals, these prices work out to CFAF
220-250 (US$1.00-1.15) per kilo of carcassweight.
6.04      Demand and Supply.  National beef consumption estimates have been
based on a UNDP-financed househoLd budget study which gives a figure of
26,300 t for 1976, equivalent to about 15 kg per caput. This figure is
not significantly different from meat and offal production estimates derived
from reliable data on official and unofficial slaughter for the same year
and is also about equal to meat production calculations based on national herd
offtake and cattle import statistics (see Project File for details). Thus, at
present, about 65% of annual beef and offal consumption is provided by the
national herd, with the rest met by imports. Consumption has been growing at
3% (compounded) over the last decade. If this continues (and it is expected
to) meat and offal production cannot keep pace and the upward pressure on
retail prices would increase even more. In fact, at: the present offtake rate,
the national herd would provide only about 50% of expected local demand for
meat and offal in 1990. With improvements in herd productivity under the
proposed project, the deficit in national beef production is expected to be
33%-36% in 1990, without the project it would be 49%-51% or 12,000 t of meat
and offal (detailed calculations in Project File).
6.05      Prices.  There are two distinct markets for beef in CAE:  the
Bangui market and the provinces, with prices in the latter (CFAF 200-250/kg-
US$0.90-1.15/kg) considerably below Bangui price (CFAF 400-450/kg-US$1.80-
2.05/kg). In both markets, however, prices have inc:reased rapidly over the
past few years (in excess of 10% per year). The wide disparity between
Bangui retail prices and those prevailing in the countryside is primarily a
reflection of the differences in purchasing power. But it also owes a lot
to the difference in the costs of butchers. In effect, most of the meat
sold in the provinces derives from the slaughter of sick or dying animals
which are sold at distressed prices. Also, there is a higher proportion
of immature animal sales in the Iprovinces than in Bangui. Such sales most
likely occur when herdsmen have a pressing need for cash and are therefore
willing to accept lower prices. The retail price structure for meat in
Bangui has been reconstructed from available data and suggests that traders'
and butchers' margins are not excessive (Project Fi]Le). The liveweight prices
used in both financial and economic analysis have been based on observed
transactions (para 6.03) and the average dressing-out percentage used to
convert live animals to beef is 206 kg/animal, consiLsting of 165 kg of beef
and 41 kg of offal. The socio-economic study proposed under the project
would, among other things, attempt to study markets and prices and the feas-
ibility of using herdsmen associations as marketing organizations, in order to
suggest improvements.



- 35 -
6.06      At present an estimated 5,000 t of locally produced milk, enters
the market. Milk sales by herdsmen constitutes an important source of
cash income for pastoralist. It is estimated that an average herd of 80
animals produces some 2,500 kg of milk per year of which 80% are consumed
within the family while 20% or 500 kg, are being sold at a price of CFAF 30
per kg (US$0.14/kg).  During 1976, the equivalent of 4,300 t of milk were
imported. Projections of milk sales within the project area show an increase
of 63% in project year 10 (para 7.05).
C. Cost Recovery
6.07      The financial analysis is based on the assumption that all the
external funds required (US$8.8 million) would be on the same terms as the IDA
Credit. The recurrent cost burden of the four project components after the
investment period would be about CFAF 280 million (US$1.3 million per year).
Full recovery of recurring costs would be equivalent to a tax of CFAF 365
(US$1.65) per head of live cattle in project year 5. Actual recovery would
depend on the possibilities of cost recovery in the project components as
discussed below.
6.08      Technical College:  The recurrent cost of the Technical College
(measured in 1979 prices) after the investment period would amount to CFAF
27 million (US$123,000) per year. This excludes the grants given to students
who are attending the 4-year course, about CFAF 8.6 million (US$39,000) per
year for the total of 60 students in residence. As is the practice in most
West African countries, vocational education of this nature constitutes a
charge on general government revenuets and it is not expected that this
principle would be changed under the proposed project.
6.09      Veterinary Supplies:  As explained in para 3.04 above, 33% of
the cost of the stock of veterinary medicines which would be used to control
various animal diseases would be paid out from the revolving fund since they
relate to the treatment of contagious diseases which have a social cost and
have traditionally been considered al national responsibility. For this
reason, it is not proposed that herdsmen be required to pay for treatments
against this class of diseases. For all other veterinary products dispensed,
herdowners would be required to make full payment.
6.10      The Topia Pilot Project and Project Studies:  The Topia pilot
project is expected to give rise to improvements in animal production and
pasture management techniques. The benefits of such improvements would
take a long time to realize and wouLd be spread over the national herd as a
whole. Similarly, the studies envisaged under the project would increase the
information available on the sector as a whole and make possible the design of
development projects in the future. The costs of these two subcomponents
would therefore appropriately be borne by producers and consumers alike
through general revenue collections by Government. Herdowners participating
in the Pilot Project would pay for veterinary products on the same basis as
other herdowners in the western region as a whole (para 6.09).



- 36 -
6.11      Animal Health Subproject:  The recurrent costs of the Animal Health
component would consist of salaries and staff related costs, and operations
and maintenance costs of the Livestock Service - in all about CFAF 240 million
(US$1.1 milliop) per year after the investment period. These costs are
comparable to extension service c:osts which are not, as a rule, directly
and/or fully recovered from farmetrs in a crop production project. However,
unlike several crop production projects, Government does not have any means
comparable to an export levy on agricultural products for extracting revenues
from the livestock subsector. At present only slaughter fees and butchers'
and traders' licence fees -- amounting to no more than CFAF 6-10 million
per year -- are collected and this sum is hardly sufficient to amortize the
cost of modern abattoir installations (para 1.20). The transhumant mode of
living of traditional herdowners has made the collection of cattle head taxes
impossible and the tax itself has encountered a strong resistance among herds-
men. Such taxes have been abandoned in almost every country in West and Central
Africa and Government does not intend to introduce it in the CAE in the fore-
seeable future. The proposed preparation of the livestock sector development
strategy (Appendix 1) would include a review of the entire production and
marketing chain to identify practical and potentially acceptable means by
which some of the increase in benefits could be captured by Government to help
defray recurring costs. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that by December 31, 1983, it would propose to IDA a reasonable
system designed to yield revenues aimed at alleviating the financial burden to
maintain the activities of the Livestock Service. The system, as envisaged,
could include direct taxes on herdsmen such as fees for the use of dipping
tanks, charges for the administration of vaccines--in addition to charges for
the vaccines themselves--or taxes on live cattle sales, as well as indirect
and general fiscal instruments that would be effective.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      Herdsmen's Benefits.  There is no reliable source of information on
herdsmen's income and expenditure patterns in the project area. Nevertheless,
an attempt has been made to reconstruct the pattern of evolution for an
average-sized herd of 80 animals with the same age/sex class distribution as
is assumed for the national herd. Expenditures and f amily consumption of
meat and dairy products have been estimated on the basis of interviews of
herdsmen.  Thus, although the absolute levels of income and expenditures, with
and without the project, can only be taken as illustrative, the predicted
increase in income with the project is a reasonable estimate of the order of
magnitude. As indicated in Annex 4, "without-project" net per capita cash
income in 1990 for the average M'Bororo herdsmen's family of 6 would be about
CFAF 27,000 (US$120) in constant 1]978 prices. With the proposed project, it
would rise to CFAF 33,500 (US$150) or by 25%. This would be still below the
1976 average GNP per capita for the CAE. The value of the increase in the
herd and offtake would be about CFAF 365,000 (US$1,660) per family, equiva-
lent to CFAF 61,000 (US$275) per family member.



-- 37 -
7.02      The project's direct economic benefits would be an increase in
the productivity of the cattle herd in the project area. The increased value
would be in the form of both an increase in herd numbers over what it would be
without the project and an increase in slaughter for sale as well as for
family consumption. Based on the parameters discussed in Chapter V, herd
development models with and without the project have been worked out and are
shown in Annexes 2 and 3. At full project development in PY15, it is expected
that the regional herd would have increased by about 453,000 animals with the
project over what it would be without the project. This îs about 61% of
expected herd size without the project. In addition, in that year, offtake
would increase by 62,600 animals with the project than without or by 91% of
expected without-project offtake. The value of the increase in offtake is
equivalent to CFAF 2,120 million (US$9.6 million) per year in constant 1978
prices. At the end of PY15, the value of the cumulative increase in herd
numbers would be some CFAF 31 billion (US$140 million). Milk production would
similarly increase as the number of cows goes up so that by PYI5 there would
be 15.1 million litres more available for sale and family consumption, with a
value of CFAF 450 million (US$2.0 million) per year.
7.03      The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 22% over
a 15-year economic life. The calculation excludes the cost of the Technical
College and of studies to be financed under the project but includes the
full cost of the Topia Pilot Project. The analysis is based on the following
principal assumptions:
(i) local salaries: Although such salaries are supposed to
be paid by Government at the present time, and could
therefore be considered as non-incremental in nature,
the whole system of personnel administration, including
the payment of salaries, lias been so erratic in the past
that it would need to be replaced entirely, as in the
proposed project, to create a functioning Livestock
Service. When local salaries are excluded from the
economic costs of the project, the rate of return in-
creases to 30%;
(ii)  expatriate salaries:  From PY9, it is assumed that partly
as a result of the training component of the proposed
project, all executive level jobs occupied by expatriates
would have been taken over by appropriately trained CAE
nationals, whose salaries tend to be 10-15% of those of
expatriates. Expatriate costs in PY9-15 are accordingly
adjusted downwards;
(iii)  Topia Pilot Project: The herd development models at Annexes
2 and 3 include animals in the Topia zone and the overall
rate of return reflects the costs of the Pilot Project.
A separate economic rate of return calculation for the



- 38 -
Topia pilot project shows a result (24%) not much
higher than for the overall project. This is because the
effects of the more favorable production parameters are
partly offset by higher investment and recurrent costs
per animal in the Topia as compared to the whole project;
(iv)   liveweight prices are as follows:  calves (less than 1 year) -
CFAF 10,000 (US$45); females (1-3 years) - CFAF 25,000 (US$113),
males (1-3 years) - CFAF 15,000 (US$68); males (over 3 years) -
CFAF 40,000 (US$181), and females (over 3 years) - CFAF 30,000
(US$136). These prices reflect actual 1978 prices near the
location of the herd and are equivalent to a weighted price
of CFAF 230/kg (US$1.05/kg) for meat and offal; and
(v)   milk is valued at CFAF 30/1 (US$0.14/1), the observed price
in rural markets for milk or the equivalent in milk products.
7.04      The economic rate of return has been tested against changes in key
parameters in order to simulate the potential effects of adverse changes in
key assumptions. An overall irncrease in project costs of 30% and a reduction
of 30% in meat and milk values reduce the rate of return to 15%. It would
take a combination of unfavorable circumstances (50% increase in costs linked
with a two-year delay in benefits) to lower the rate of return to 12%. Such
results indicate that even if the project does not achieve all of its expected
targets it would still produce acceptable returns.
7.05      Nutritional Impact.  The proposed project would generate improve-
ments in the nutritional situation of the CAE pastoralists. Moreover, it would
create conditions that could lead to significant improvements in the nutrition
of urban dwellers. Increased meat production would be expected to reduce
national meat deficit by about 3 percent by 1990. Milk production by 1990
would be expected to increase by 15 million liters thus providing for an
important increase in internal consumption. Assuming that 80% of the increase
would be consumed within the herdowners families and counting 9,000 families
in the western region, there would be an additional milk consumption of about
110 liters per month per family. Means of affecting more general and longer
term improvements in nutrition would be investigated as part of the studies to
be done before the end of the investment period.
7.06      Other Benefits and Risks.  Although non--quantifiable, an important
project benefit would be the expected improvement in the organization and
functioning of the Livestock Service. If the administrative and accounting
reforms proposed under this project can be made to. succeed, even their partial
adoption by other agencies of government would lead to greatly increased
efficiency in the public administration, whose present weakness is the
greatest single constraint to development in the CAE. On the other hand,
there are five major areas of risk that will be difficult to insure against,
namely:
(1)  the present low leveL of staff morale and motivation
that has resulted from certain long-standing laxity
in management in the Livestock Service, which could
hamper performance;



- 39 -
(2)  ANEC's possible resistance to the changes that are proposed,
which could frustrate development of the Livestock Service;
(3)  the dependance on timely and replicable results from the
Topia Pilot Project, without which the growth in herd size
could begin to exhaust feed supplies;
(4)  the possibility that an acceptable and effective means of
taxing the growth in the livestock resources base would not
be found as required, which would limit cost recovery as
well as the usefullness of livestock development as an
instrument of further economic growth; and
(5)  the possibility of changes in Government priorities which
could affect the sustained commitment to livestock resource
development needed for successful follow-through after the
investment period.
Several assurances were obtained from Government to ensure that these risks
are minimized and that there would bet satisfactory implementation. These
relate inter alia to selection criteria for internationally recruited key
project staff, the provision of financial incentives, the timely provision of
Governinent counterpart funds, auditing of accounts, legal provisions for the
Topia Pilot Project and socio-economic analysis leading to the development
of livestock sector strategies.
VIII.  ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the following principal assurances were
obtained from Government:
(i)  it would determine enrollm,ent in the Livestock Technical
College so that the annual number of graduates does not
exceed fifteen (para 3.09);
(ii) it would, following the initial deposit of about CFAF 90
million in the Project Account (see para 8.02), deposit
monthly, and in advance, its contribution to project
financing, covering expected expenditures and payments
for the succeeding month (para 3.21);
(iii) it would cause ANEC to contribute to the project an appro-
priate proportion of membership dues paid in PYI to PY4 for
the purchase of veterinary medicines for distribution or sale to
herdowners (para 3.21);



- 40 -
(iv)  it would cause the Project management to prepare annual
programs and budgets for the Livestock Service and ANEC,
and to submit them for approval by IDA at least three
months before the beginning of the fiscal year concerned;
the first year's program and budget to be submitted to
IDA for approval no later than March 31, 1980 (para 3.24);
(v)  it would appoint or cause to be appointed to the following
positions, and for the duration of the project, persons
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
acceptable to IDA: (a) Co-Director of the Livestock Service;
(b) PrincipaL Inspector of the Livestock Service for the
Western Region; (c) Pr:incipal of Technical College for Live-
stock, Bouar; (d) Manager, Topia Pilot Project; (e) Chief
Accountant/Administrat:ive Officer, Livestock Service;
(f) Head of Veterinary Laboratory, Bouar; (g) Assistant
Principal, Technical College for Livestock; and (h) Market-
ing Officer (para 4.11);
(vi)   it would propose to IDA by December 31, 1983, a system
designed for the recovery of some of the increased benefits
resulting from the project to help defray the recurring costs
of the Livestock Servic:e (para 6.11).
8.02      As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit, Govern-
ment would have employed and in post, the Co-Director of the Livestock
Service, who would act as Project Manager, the Manager of the Topia Pilot
Project, and the Chief Accountant/Administrative Officer (para 4.11), and
established the Project Account urith an initial deposit therein of about CFAF
90 million (para 3.21). A condition for disbursement against expenditures for
the Topia Pilot Project, except those required to bring the scheme about,
would be the enactment of enabling legislation covering all aspects of herds-
men's precooperatives and the assignment of pastures to constituted
associations (para 3.13).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$2.5 million.



- 41 -                      Appendix 1
Page 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Studies - Summary Terms of Reference
A.   Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Studvy
1.        The objectives of the study would be to:  evaluate the nature and
extent of tsetse infestation and incidence of trypanosomiasis; update the
map of tsetse infestation made in 1963; and propose a plan of action against
the tsetse fly and trypanosomiasis Eor priority pastoral area.
2.        Consultants should begin with a summary study designed to eliminate
some areas and to rank priority areas suitable for more detailed study of
the effects and extent of infestation.
3.        From among the priority areas chosen under para 2, the detailed study
should give rise to clearly delimitesd areas of high potential for livestock
based on the criterion of ease and cost-effectiveness of tsetse control.
4.        Detailed plans for tsetse eradication and control in these "develop-
ment potential areas" should be presented.
B.   LANDSAT Land Cover/Use Survey
5.        The objectives of this survey would be (i) to determine the degree
of erosion which exists at present in the pasture areas west of the traditional
north-south cattle route from Batangafo to Bangui (Map 13642); and (ii) to
determine pasture/grazing potential areas in the above region. Details about
this survey are in the Project File.
C.  Preparation of a Follow-up Project
6.        This study would synthesize available knowledge on the livestock
sector including: essential data on the social milieu of the herdsmen; the
"economic" life of the pastoralist; animal health problems and prospects;
pasture resources and use; demand amd supply patterns for cattle and beef and
relevant prices; links between production, marketing, and nutritional develop-
ment in the pastoral and urban populations; and the quality and quantity of
public services provided to and required by the sector.
7.        Consultants would have available to them the tsetse and pasture
resources survey described above under A and B as well as the experience
of the project's activities.
8.        On the basis of all available information, the consultants would
be required to:



- 42 -                      Appendix 1
Page 2
(a)  propose short and medium-term development strategies for the
livestock sector given the expected development of internal and
external demand; the manpower and management capability of the
Livestock Service; alternative supportive rioles that could be
played by ANEC; the eventual feasibility of using cooperative
herdsmen associations as marketing organizations; and the finan-
cial and fiscal implicaltions of any such program for the Govern-
ment of CAE; and
(b) as part of the development strategy, provide a detailed report
on a development project: for the sector to follow the proposed
project. The project proposal should examine and recommend
appropriate solutions for all managerial, administrative and
technical problems.  The material and other means required should
be costed in detail and the financial and economic benefits should
be presented with all supporting hypotheses and calculations.



- 43 -                     Appendix 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Initial Tasks of Project Manager
1.        Finalize detail training and experience profile and functions
of Livestock Service employees at all levels and select key local personnel
required by the animal health subproject in conjunction with the Livestock
Service Director.
2.        Establish contact with the FED-financed project in the East and
collaborate with project manager in task 5 below.
3.        Review (and revise as required) all legal texts concerning livestock
sector and get Government approval for same.
4.        Prepare bidding documents for priority equipment, vehicles, materials
and civil works.
5.        Advise Government together with Project Manager, Topia Pilot Project,
on necessary provisions of enabling legislation covering, inter alia, herds-
men's associations, project area delineation, grazing rights, and access
to the Topia zone.
6.        Secure housing for expatriate staff at Bangui and Bouar and supervise
required repairs.
7.        Recruit (or help recruit) expatriate staff.



- 44 -                      Appendix 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Reporting Format
1.        To facilitate management: control during project implementation and
to provide usable data for the preparation of a sectoral development strategy
and a follow-up project, field staff of the Livestock Service would be required
to report punctually on their activities and to gather statistics of herdsmen
and cattle. Basically, four documents would be prepared (examples for three
of these are in the Project File):
A.   Monthly Report.  This would be required of heads of veterinary
centers and posts and of Livestock Inspectors. It would record
animal health data; the activities of the reporter and sales/price
data on cattle and milk. Veterinary post heads would fill out this
form and send a copy each to the veterinary center head to whom he
is responsible and the ][nspector for his area. Center heads would
collate reports from the posts under their control and Inspectors
would synthesize the reports of center heads with appropriate
comments before sending report to the Principal Inspector of the
Livestock Service, Western Region.
B.   Herdsmen's File.  This i-ile would record for each herdsowner and for
as many herds as possible such details as the: age, family composi-
tion, sales, exchanges and family consumption, and transhumance
history and present practice. Each veterinary post head would be
assigned a target number of families to follow and changes in the
circumstances of each herdowner's family would be recorded.
C.   Stock Control Cards wou]Ld simply record beginning stocks, sales,
distribution, losses and end-of-period inventories for all veterinary
products given to veteriLnary centers and posts for sale or distribu-
tion to herdsmen.
2.        The fourth document wou:Ld be a Herd Composition Form which is a
standard form developed by IEMVT for use in African countries.  In addition,
a simple receipt would be printed and given to herdowners by field staff after
each sale or distribution of veterinary medicine. It would thus serve the
dual purpose of indicating types and frequency of agents' dealings with
herdowners as well as an accounting receipt.



CENTRAL ARICAN EMPIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMIMARY
(CFAF Million in mid-1979 terms)
Taxes            FE               .a  Base
PYO             PYi              PY2                 PY3                PY4              Total            TxT--"          7    Total
A.   ANIMAL HEALTII PROJECT
i.   Personnel - Local                                            7.5            184.7             184.7              184.7              184.7             746.3         13     97.0            -
- Expatriate                                   18.5              92.0             92.0                92.0               92.0             386.5         15     58.0       75     289.9
ii.  Vehicles and Equipment                                      13.9             71.2              15.5                34.7               31.0            166.3         10      16.6      80     133.0
iii. Operations and Maintenance                                   3.1             40.3              40.3               40.3               40,3             164.3         15    24.6        40      65.7
iv.  Civil Works                                                 14.6             49.6              10.3                 -                  -               74,5         18     13 R       61      45.7
TOTAL                                                      57.6            437.8             342.8               351.7              348.0            1537.9               210.1              534.3          o3
B.   TOPIA PILOT PROJECT
i.   Personnel - Local                                            1.5              7.6               7.6                 7.6                7.6             31,9          13      4,1      --        -
- Expatriate                                   21.1              32.4             22.7                22.7               22.7             121.6         15     18.2       75      91.2
il.  Vehicles and Equipment                                       1.9             31.8               2,7                 0.2                0.2             36.8          10      3.7      80      29.4
iii. Operations and Maintenance                                   4.9             47.4              ?0.0                19.7               19.7            111.7          15     16.8      40      44.7
iv.  Civil Worko                                                 15.7             43.3               3.9                 5.2                3.8             71.9          10      7.2      54      39.0
TOTAL                                                      45.1             182.5             5e.9                55.4               54.0             373.9                50.0              204.3          15
C.   TEChNICAL  COLLEGE
i.   Personnel - Local                                           -                13.8              13.8                13.8               13.8              55.2         13      7.2       -        -
- Expatriote                                   -                 22.0              22.0               22.0               22.0              88.0         15      13.2      75      66.0
ii.  Vehicles and Equipinent                                     -                21.1               2.5                 -                  -               23.6          10      2.4      80       18.9
iii. Operations and Maintenance                                                   12.9              12.8                12.8               12.8              51.3         15      7.7      40       20.5
iv.  Civil Works                                                 -                 4.8               4.5                 -                  -                 9.3         19      1.8      53        5.0
v.   Training Allowances                                         -                  8.0             14.0                 -                  -                22.0          -      -       100       22.0
TOTAL                                                      -                 82.6             69.6                48.6               48.6             249.4                32.3              132.4           10
D.   VETERINARY SUPPLIES                                               -                17.5              17.0                25.0               15.0              74.5          -      -        95       70.8           3
E.   STUDIES
i.   Personnel - Local                                           -                 -                 6.3                 6.3                7.2              19.8         13      4.6        -       -
- Expatriate                                   -                  _               26.0                26.0               43.3              95.3           -      -        90       85.8
il.  Vehicles and Eauipment                                                                         13.3                 1.0                1.0              15.3         10      1.5       80      12.2
iii. Opraativs andf Maintesance                                  -                 -                18.3                18.3               21.3              57.9         15      8.7      40       23.2
iv.  Landsat                                                                      33.2               -                   -                  -                35.2                         100       35.2
TOTAL                                                                        35.2             63.9                51.6               72.8             223.5                 14.8             156.4            9
TOTAL BASE COST                                                 102.7            735.6             550.2               532.3              538.4            2459.2         12.5 307.0        45   1098.2
Plystcal cuîllngencies (4,6%)                                     6,9              42,1             22.7                20,8               21.0             113.5         12.5  14.2        45       51.1
Experte,) Price  eloreases (jj%)                                  3.0              36.8              52,2               77.8              112.0             281.8         1Z.5   85.2       45     126.8
TOTAL PROJECi1' COT                                        112.6            814.5             625.1               630.9              671.4            2854.5         12.5  356.8      45    1276.1



CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Herd Development Model - Without Project
Year
Hler 
(Thousand Head                              0                1                2               3                                   5 5             10               15
Bulls                                    7.3              7.3              7.3              7.4               7.5              7.6              7.7              7.9
Steers and Bulls                        68.5             68.7             69.0             69.3              69.5             69.9             71.3             72.7
Calves 0-1 Year                        144.7            145.3            145.9            146.5            146.9             147.4            150.3            153.2
Stock   1-2 Years                       86 5             86.8             87.2             87.5              87.9             88.1             89.8             91.6
2-3   "                        77.5             77.8             78.1             78.5              78.7             79.1             80.7             82.2
3-4   "                        73.4             73.6             73.9             74.2              74.6             74.8             76.3             77.8
4-5   "                        35.8             36.0             36.1             36.2              36.4             36.6             37.3             38.0
5-6                            35.1             35.1             35.3             35.4              35.5             35.7             36.4             37.1
>6   "                       171.2            172.0            172.7            173.3             173.9            174.5            177.9            181.4
Total Anir-als                         700.0            702.6            705.5            708.2             710.9            713.7            727.7            741.9
A Units                                527.0            528.9            531.1            533.1             535.3            537.5            548.0            558.7
o.
Value of Herd (US$'000)                                                                                                                                       87,022
Sales:
Culled Cows                                              30.8             31.0             31.1              31.2             31.3             31.9             32.6
Bulls                                                     1.9              1.8              1.9               1.9              1.9              2.0              1.9
Steers                                                   32.4            32.5             32.5              32.6             32.7              33.3             34.0
Value of Offtake (US$'000)                             10,475           10,500           10,534            10,565           10,597           10,809           11,011
TOTAL SALES                                               651        I    653               655               657              659              672              685
PARAMETERS
Calving %                                 60               60               60               60                60               60               60               60
Mortality 0-1 in %                        40               40               40               40                40               40               40               40
1-2 in %                       10               10               10               10                10               10               10               10
2-3 in %                        5                5                5                5                 5                5                5                5
Sin %                           2                2                2                                                   2                2                2    N
Culling Bulls in 7%                       25               25               25               25                25               25               25               25
Culling Old Cows in 7O                    18               18               18               18                18               28               18               18
First calving age in years                 4                4                4                4                 4                4                 4                4



CENTRAL APRICAN EMPIRE
I 1VPLI'fllVE  TflnP11NT PROdECT
Herd Develoiment Model - With Pro ject
Year
Rer                               O           1           2         3          4           5            6           7           8         9          10           il          12          13         14           15
(Thousanrd Head)
Bulls                                   7.3         7.3         7.3       7.4        7.5         7.6          833         8.5         8.5       8.9        9.2           10.1       10.7        11.1       11.4          11.6
Steers and Bulls                       68.5       68.7        69.0       69.6       70.7        73.3        120.7      120.8       119.7      126.4      131.6         135.0       138.6       143.9      150.5        154.4
Calves 0-1 Year                       144.7      145.3       145.9      146.5      149.6       150.7       178.9       181.6       186.2      195.1      207.0          219.9      226.1       233.0      240.1        249.2
Stock  1-2 Years                       86.5        86.8       91.5       96.3      101.1       107.7        111.5      136.0       141.6      149.0      156.1          165.6      175.8       180.9      186.4        192.1
2-3    "                      77.5        77.8        79.0       83.3       88.6       93.0         99.1       102.6       125.1      130.3      137.1         143.6       152.4       161.7      166.4        171.5
3-4    "                      73.4        73.6        74.7       75.8      80.0        85.1         44.7        47.6        49.3       60.1       62.6          65.8        69.0        73.2       77.6         79.9
4-5    "                      35.8        36.0        36.1       36.6       37.2        39.2        41.7        43.8        46.6       48.3       58.9          49.0        51.6        54.1       57.4         60.8
5-6                           35.1        35.1        35.3       35.4       35.9       36.5          38.4       40.9        42.9       45.7       47.3          57.7        48.0        50.6       53.0         56.3
> 6                          171.2       172.0       172.7      173.3     173.9       174.9        172.9       173.1       17S.8      179.8      185.8         192.1       207,1       209.4      213.8        219.5
Total Animals                         700.0       702.6      711.5      724.2      744.5       768.0        816.2       854.9       895.7     943.6      995.6         1038.7     1079.3      1117.9    1156.6        1195.3
A Units                               527.0       528.9      534.7      543.7      558.1       576.5        599.3       622.8      652.6      688.7      726.4          753.4       782.1       811.0     840.3         867.9
Value of Herd (US$000)                                                                                                                                                                                             139',7 87
Sales:
Culled Cows                                        30.8        31.0      31.1       31.2        31.3         35.0        34.6        34.6       35.2      36.0           37.2        38.4        41.4       41.9         42.8
"        Bulls                                    1.9        1.8        1.9        1.9         1.9          2.9         2.9         3.0        3.1       3.2            3.3         3.6         3.7        3.7          3.8
eSteers                                                                                                                                                                  12.5        13.2        13.8       14.6         15.5
Steers                                            32.4        32.5       32.5       32.6        33.1         33.7        42.0       45.0       47.5       51.5           55.5        58.5        61.0      64.0          69.0
Value of Offtake (US$'000)                    10,475      10,500    10,534    10,565       10,670       11,487      12,944      13,510    14,067    14,925          17,261      18,112      19,064    19,769        20,924
PARAMETERS
Calving %                                60          60          60         60        60          61           61          61          61         62         62            62          62          62         62           62
Mortality 0-1 in 7.                      40          40          37         34         31         28            26         24          22         20         20            20          20           20        20            20
1-2 in %                     10          10           9          9          8           8            8           8           8          8         8              8           8           8          8            8
2-3 in %                      5           5           4          4          4           4            4           4           4         4          4              4           4           4          4            4
) 3jin %                       2          2           2          2          2           2            2           2           2          2          2             2           2           2          2            2
Culling Bulls In %                       25          25          25         25        25          25            30          30          30        30         30             30          30          30        30            30
Culling Old Covs in%                     18          18          18         18        18          18            20          20         20         20         20             20         20           20        20            20     x
First calving age in years               >4          714         >          >4         >4         >4             33                               Y          >3            >3            3         >3                       S:3 3
% Heifers sold                            -           -           -          -          -           -            -                       _                    -             20          20          20        20            28



CE1TRPAL AFRICA_ EMPTIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Milk Production
(in 000.000 litres and ')00 FCFA)
Year                      °       1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10      il      12      13     14_      15
Without Project
Production               18.6   18.6   18.7   18.8   18.9   19.0   19.0   19.1   19.2   19.2   19.3   19.3   19.4   19.5   19.6   19.7
Family Consumption       14.9   14.9   14.9   15.0   15.1   15.2   15.2   15.3   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.5   15.6   15.7   15.8
Sales                     3.7    3.7    3.7    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9
Value                   111.6  111.6  112.0  112.9  113.3  113.7  113.7  114.6  114.6  114.6  115.L~ 115.9  116.4  117.0  117.6  118.2
With Project
Production               18.6   19.1   19.7   20.3   20.6   21.0   24.9   25.5   26.3   27.9   29.6   30.5   31.4   32.4   33.6   34.8
Family Consumption       14.9   15.3   15.8   16.2   16.5   16.8   19.9   20.4   21.0   22.3   23.7   24.4   25.1   25.9   26.9   27.9
Sales                     3.7    3.8    3.9    4.1    4.1    4.2    5.0    5.1    5.3    5.6    5.9    6.1    6.3    6.5    6.7    6.9
Value                   111.6  115.0  118.3  112.2  123.8  125.7  149.3  153.2  157.8  167.5  177.9  182.9  188.5  194.3  201.0  208.9
Incremental Production            0.5    1.0    1.5    1.7    2.0    5.9    6.4    7.1    8.7   10.3   11.2   12.1   13.0   14.2   15.1



- 49 -
CENTRAL AFRICMN EMPIRE                                   ANNEX 5
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS FOR AVERAGE FAMILY
Without Pro,1ect        With Project
A.  Herd                                              1980                      1990                   1990
No.
Females
CalfT(less than 1 yr)                             8                          9                      9
Heifers (1-3 yrs)                                15                         16                     20
Cows (4 yrs +)                                   32                         35                     35
Male
Cfir                                              7                          8                      8
Young bulls                                        8                         9                     il
Adult bulis                                       10                        10                     14
Total                                          80                         87                    97
B. Sales and Consumption
Unit      Total    Sales            Total    Sales          Total      Sales
Value      No.          Value        No.         Value       No.          Value
(CFAF                   (CFAF                   (CFAF                     (CFAF
'000)            No.  '000)               No.   1000)              No.   '000)
Calves                              20        1                         2     1      20         2       1     20
Bull                                45        3            g 90         3     2      90         4       3    135
Cull Heifers                        25        4       3    75           4     3      75.        4       3     75
Total                                       8       5   165           9     6    185,        10       7    230
Increa8e in Cash Income with                                                                        45
Project  (CFAF '000)
Value of Increases in Herd vith                                                                   320
ProJect (2x20 + 4x25 + 4x45)
(CFAF '000)
Total Incremental Value: CFAF 000                                                                 365
TTl  e^/!'!  ,                                                        1,660
us$ person                                                              275
C. Cash Expenditures (CFAF)
Mineral Lick8 1/                              5,6oo                      6,o90                 6,790
ANEC Dues 2/                                  4,oo°                      4,ooo                 4,ooo
Veterinary Products 3/                        3,000                      3,000                 1,900
Equipment and Miscellaneous                  10,000                     10,000                10,000
Total                                      22,600                    23,390                 28,690
D   Net Cash Inc                                 142,400                   161,610               201,310
Incremental Cash Income (CFAF)                                                                39,700
US$ equivalent                                                                                  180
US$/head                                                                                         30
25%
1/ CFAF 700/head of animal per year
2/ Dues would remain about the same level but would finance improved
member services excluding free veterinary products for ANEC members
3/ Per animal expenditures in 1990 with project based on value of
vaccines and other veterinary products which would be distributed
at cost; othervise mission estimate.



- 50 -
ANNEX 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbu:rsement Schedule
.UI'3$ Thousand)
EEC
IDA Fiscal Year                 IDA Credit              Special Action Credit
and Quarter            QuitèrIy    Cumulative         Quarterly Cumulative
FY 80
Fourth                    -LOO            100            4o           40
FY 81
First                      150           250            120          160
Second                     155           405            160          320
Third                      155            560           160          48o
Fourth                     200            760            20          500
FY 82
First                     1]35            895
Second                    1]35         1,030
Third                      135         1,165
Fourth                    1.35         1,300
FY 83
First                      1.30        1,430
Second                     1.30        1,560
Third                      1.30        1,690
Fourth                     1.30        1,820
FY 84
First                      170         1,990
Second                     170         2,160
Third                      170         2,330
Fourth                     170         2,500



CENTRAL AFRICAN EMrPIRE
LIVESTOCK DEVELC)PMENT PROJECT
Topia Pilot Project - Implementation Schedule
Year    PYO             PYl                 PY2                 PY3                  PY4
uarter  3   4   1   2       3     4    1   2   3    4   1   2    3   4               2  3      4
R ecru itme nt -  P roject M,anager__
-  Construction Foreman    _
-  Local Staff               _         T__
Organization of Herdsmen .
Preliminarf Studies
Purchase of Equipment
Construction/Civil Works
Tse-tse Eradication _
Animal Health Carnpaign                                          *=  =      ,
Evaluation of Phase I
Phase Il and Phase li|
Action Supervised by:
Project Manager
- - -     -Range Manager
,,_,_,-----Assist Pilot Project Manager
...."....--Construction Foreman                                                                              World Bank - 19122
.






CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
Livestock Development Project
Proposed Project Organization
|   Min stry of Agriculture
and Livestock
(SÉGA}t/         ,i-recorGeneral of the                 adCodnto   nt
(SEGA)IJ ~                 andJ Livestock                adCodnto   nt
-Trypanotol erant                            _
stock                                 Livestock Service                                       ANEC
-Aviculture
-Silkworm Program            Director of          Co-Director of             2              Annual Budgets
-Animal Feed                  Livestock Serv.     Livestock Serv.                                Audn
-Veterinary Clinic
Eastern Sector         Central Sector                  I                      Livestock
Inspectorate           Inspectorate                                       Training College
Livestock Service      Livestock Service                                         Bouar
Pr.nc.pEt1 Inspector of
Livestock Service
(Western Region)
r                 I- n.
Regional Veterinary             Veterinary Inspectorates
Laboratory                                                     Topia Pilot Project
I Bouar                 Bozoum   Bouar   Djomo
1/ Société d'Etat pour la Gestion des Abattoirs.
2J Project Manager for proposed project.                                            World Bank - 19123






_______________________________________________________________                                                                          iBRD  13642~~~~~~~~~~~!BR   1364
If  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21CE-NTRtAI AFRICAN EMPIRE lN 9E
C  ~ I                                                . ~IJVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
N I G E R A                              ~                                                         ~i ~o                                          £~ ~iê~d h.ANqlor-le
,,.Q                                                                                                                                                        G    YElIIer~
A  2                           H  A  D                                             ___ j                      -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pop=e rhird Hie~y P?roet
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRErn o~
EMPIRE            -                                             t'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Scnd,   d
'z                                                                      L_   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- j Ga IJh,rst r~ro,N.fionoI porLk
«   Intenqt;oal cirport
Prafect-rp b-urdo<Ms
CONGO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>(                                                                   ...-IÙ.npoo ordre
NI.
Ap ~ ~  ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~         ~          UA
ZAI R E
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4






IBRD 13643
16,130'           1                                  1       J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNE 1978
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
|CENTRAL ~                                                        LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~Topia   Pilot  Project  Area
.5a 20' 
Boundary of pilot prolect area
t   .  >reS'\~~~~~~~~~'   <~~~ ~~~roo  -~~~~                                       Secondairy roads
Existrng (or formerly existing) trocks
-o-        !GA8oti^bBLC°NX *.-  a  3ss- T3>  3                                   ~                                     Access tracks/firebreaks to be constructed
: 11111 111  Tse-Tse barri.,-existîng
S                     ~~~~~~~Tse-Tse barrier-to be created
C5 .                                    1-                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Dippirng tank-existing
ANG ~ ~     ~ ~ mrs,oo                                                                                       Dipping tank-to be constructed
A     Camp  of traditional leader
t     Catholic mission
Topia  district  boundaries
-5° 10                                                      IrmaC Bou-e°10i
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                            1 `I        10   15   20
KILO MELTERS
<o& :1 00; ,r.1                           ,s       
ba ,,       atekeW                                                                                         E 
\,.    sr,tbo  BQteke            ,VrJ~~~~~~Kdiri \î,-                        Sa
Station                                      3
-  4- 5O'                 :u                  ,,                            - \                              Ardo            2        /                            4 S-amba
9  .'                    ----                  ~~~~~~~~Nopans
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
N N ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~oe
ff ~            ~~~~~~~~~~ V                                         ;                                               (f 
-   4' 40'                                                                                                       amp  Topia                                        4'40'-
C                    - .0I`                ~~~~~~~Ardo   _    ;2 
b, ffi--~  l                                                                                     Wage              >` 
h.reort  o lOtk` r ,oph     t.i orl '°'t
the ot,OOlsSttet or h OhPdS trf                                                                    10   \  
doe ool,oPTy 10 wOleIt Os tttcha  -.                                                               rOl l\
pUd ms  hoP                                                    \    -ih                    Panha\\  
WorI.d s ,ek d   CS
,dgmleot  or th OdI  eptIaOth  '~\zO  |
py ecceplarre ol.t,rO bo.Ord,,eO
6-lo'                              o62                                16°30'     so ô° )40                                 $.                 10 50s



