CONFORMED COPY
IDA CREDIT NUMBER 894 CA
IFAD LOAN NUMBER 14 CA
Joint Projeet Agreement
(Livestock Development Project):
betWeen
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 10, 1979


﻿IDA CREDIT NUMBER 894 CA
IFAD LOAN NUMBER  14 CA
JOINT PROJEICT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 1O, 1979, between CENTRAL AFRICAN
EMPIRE (hereinafter called thé/ Borröwer), INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICILTURAL DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Fund).
WHEREAS by a development iredit agreement of even date here-
with, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
development credit ^in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to two million five hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000), for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of a livestock development
project described in Schedule;2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS by a Special Action Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association as Administrator
of the Special Action Account established by the Association with
funds contributed by the Memher States of the European Economic
Community, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower a Special Action Cr 'ed t in an aggregate principal amoufte
equivalent to about five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), for
the same purpose;
WHEREAS by a loan agreemelt of even date herewith, the Fund
has agreed to make to the Bortower a loan, in an aggregate prin-
cipal amount equiValent to öneiillion nine hundred fifty thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,950,0009, for the same purpose;
WHEREAS the Fund has appoited the Association as the Cooper-
ating Institution to administer the Fund Loan;
WHEREAS the parties hereto deem it to be in their mutual
interest that the allocation, withdrýawal and uset of the proceeds
of such credit and loan and the execution of the project to be
financed thereby" as well as other matterä rälating thereto, be
regulated as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
föllowing terms wherever used in this Agreement shall have the
following meariings:
vj


﻿-2-
(a) "IDA Credit Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and the Association referr,d to in the first recital to
this Agreement, as from time to time amended;
(b) "Fund Loan Agreement" meåns the agreement between the
Borrower and the Furd referred to in the third recital to this
Agreeent, as from time to time amended;
(c)- "IDA Credit" means the credit provided for in the IDA
Credit Agreement;
(d) "Fund Loan" means the loan provided for in the Fund Loan
Agreement;
(e)  "Credit Account" and "Fund Account" mean the respective
accounts established under the IDA Credit Agreement and the Fund
Loan Agreement;
(f)  "Project" means the Poject described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
(g) "Lives.tock Service" means the _Livestock Service of
the Borrower 's Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock;
(h) "AdTE" means ananimal health technician (Adjoint
Technique d'Elevage) of the Livestock Service;
(1)  "AgTE" means an animal health agent (Went Technique
d 'Elevage) of the Livestock Service;
(j)  "ANEC" means the National Livestock Producers' Associa-
tion (Association Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains), operat-
ing under the general supervision of the Borrower"'s Ministry of
Agricultåre and Livestock;
(k) "Project Account" means the project account referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(1)  "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(m)  "Special Drawing Righlts" and "SDR" mean, according to
Seftion 2.01 (27) of the General Conditions to Loan and' Guarantee
Agreements of the Fund, the Special Drawing Rights as defined from
time to time by the International Monetary Fund; and
~~7l


﻿-3-
(n)  "Topia Zone" means a zone located in the southern
region of the Borrower's territory, divided in areas I, II, III
and a buffer zone for the purpose of Part C of the Project.-
ARTICLE II
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of IDA Credit and Fund Loan4
Section 2.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the IDA Cred-It Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement, the amount of the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Fund Account, respec-
tively, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and
with the allocation of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and Fund
Loan setaforth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such allocation
may be modified from time to itime pursuant to the provisions of
such Schedule or by further agreement among the parties to this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the
ptoceeds of the IDA Creit from the Credit Account and the pro-
iceeds of the Fund Loat/ from the Fund Account for expenditures
made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amouft of the. IDA Credit and the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Associatidn a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Asso-iation and
the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.,
(b) The _'orrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the applicatio.


﻿-4
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy
the Association and the Fund that the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account and the Fund Account the amount
applied for and that such amount is to be used only for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04.   Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Credit Account and from the Fund Acount and the funds to
be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by
the Association, as -nearly as practicable in the circumstances,
between the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 50:50, or
such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Association and
the Fund.
Section 2.05. (a) When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association shall:
(i) if withdrawal is requested from the Credit Account,
pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
aith the provisions of the IDA Credit Agreement;
if withdrawal is requested from the Fund Account,
promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Account
in the aggregate amount specified in such notice,
that it has approved payment of the portion,
if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
in the amount set forth in such notice, and that
the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Account
in the amount set forth in such notice is eligible
for payment by the Fund.
(b) Upon receipt of such notice of the Association, the
Fund shall, subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation
of the Fund Loan set forth in the Fund Loan Agreement, pay the
amount so to be withdrawn from the Fund Account in the currency
and to the payee stated in the notice.
Section 2.06. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may enter into special commitments to pay amounts,


﻿out of the proceeds of 'the Fund Loan, in respect of the cost of
goods required by the Project. Any such special commitment by the
Association shall, once it has been notified to the Fund, consti-
tute an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding
any subsequent suspension or cancellatio-n of the Fund Loan and in
conformity with the foregoing Section 2.05, such portion of the
total amount to be disbursed in fulfillment of such special
commitment as agreed pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Livestoék Service with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering,
financial and administrative practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01
above, but without any limitation thereon, the Borrower shall:
(a) , make,, the proceeds of the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan
available to the Livestock,Service on terms and tontditionslisatis-
factory to the Association and the Fund; and
(b) establish in the name of the Livestock Service in a
banking institution within the territory of the Borrower on terms
and conditiohs satisfactory to the Association and the Fund, and
maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project Account
for the purpose of financing the carfying out of the Project. In
c-          addition to ån initial déposit of about CFAF ninety million
(CFAF90,000,000) into such Account, the Borrower shall:
(i) out of its own resources, notwithstanding funds
cottributed by the IDA Credit, the Special Action
Credit and the Fund Loan, make funds available,
1,äg


﻿-6-
through the Project Account, in monthly install-
ments to be made at least five days before the end
of the month concerned for the payment of salaries
of local staff involved in the carryirg out of the
Project during that month; ,and
(ii) out of its own resources, make funds available, in
addition to funds contributed by the IDA Credit and
the Fund Loan, to a sub-part of the Project Account
to be operated on a revolving basis, for the
purchase by the Livestock Service, as and when
required, of veterinary medicines and, vaccines to
be used for treatment and prevention of cattle
diseases, said medicines and vaccines to be sold at
cost to herdsmen in case of non-contagious diseases
and the proceeds of the sale thereof to accrue to
the said sub-part of the Project Account. The
Borrower shall also ensure that ANEC shall contri-
bute an appropriate proportion of membership dues
paid by herdsmen and collected by ANEC to the said
sub-part of the Project Account, said proportion to
be used for the purchase of veterinary medicines
and vaccines.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ at all times, with such
qualificaEtions and experience and under such terms and conditions
as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower, the Association and the
Fund:
(a) a Project manager who shall have the functions and
title of Co-Director of the Livestock Service, with the overall
responsibility'of the implementation of the various parts of the
Project;
(b) an inspecteur principal responsible for the Livestock
Service in the Western Region and associate to the Project
manager;
(c) a chief accountant/administrative officer based at the
headquarters of the Livestock Service at Bangui;
(d) a livestock education specialist who shall have the
functions and title of Principal of the Livestock Technical
College at Bouar, assisted by another livestock education special-
st with the functions and title of Assistant Principal;
944.
Ct..


﻿(e) a parasitologist who shall head the veterinary labora-
tory at Bouar;
(fJ  a range manager who shall be the Topia Pilot Scheme
Manager;go
(g) a marketing officer under Part A.5 of the Project; and
(h) consultants for the carrying out of the studies and
surveys under Part D of the Project.
The inspecteur principal of the Livestock Service, the lives-
tock education specialist and the parasitologist referred to in
paragraphs (b), (d) and (e) above shall be employed not later than
January 31, 1980, or such other date as the Association and the
Fund may agree.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit or the Fund
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall ftrnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents, and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the beriefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the IDA Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
J 4


﻿-8-
financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association and the Fund ati/ regular intervals all such
information as the Association and the Fund shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be ,derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower,
the Association and the Fund, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association and the Fund a report, of such -scope
and in such detail as the Association and the Fund shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, the Association and the Fund
of their respective obligations under the IDA Credit Agreement,
the Fund Loan Agreement and the- Joint Project Agreement, and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the IDA Credit and the Fund
Loan.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association and the Fund may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the annual intake
of AgTE students to be trained in a four-year course at the
Livestock Technical College at Bouar shall be determined on the
basis of a ratio such as the number of students who graduate at
the end of the course does not exceed fifteen and, not later than
March 31, 1980, shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association and the Fund, for their approval, the amended curri-
culum for the said four-year course referred to in Part B.1 of
the Project.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association and the Fund may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary steps for
the provision of: (a) adequate permanent housing for all excutive-
level staff involved in the carrying out of the Project, either in
Bangui or in the field, not later than January 1, 1980; and (b)
daily trek allowances, in an amount satisfactory to the Borrower,
the Association and the Fund, for local staff at all levels
involved in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall give high priority,, to the
rehabilitation of the road section between Gadzi and Yaloke


﻿and shall ensure that the said rehabilitation shall be completed
not later than January 31, 1981 or such other date as the Bor-
rower, the Association and the Fund may agree.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall review, from time to time,
in consultation with the Association and the Fund the activities
of ANEC and shall arrange that ANEC's operations in the field of
animal health   e discontinued not later than December 31, 1980 or
such other date as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund may
agree*
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) 'The Borrower shall cause the Livestock
Service and ANEC to maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their respective operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, at least until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account or the
Fund Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures, and
shall enable the Association's or the Fund's accredited repre-
sentatives to inspect such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Project Account and
ANEC accounts for each fiscal year to be audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Fund;
(ii) furnish to the Associationt and the Fund as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association and the Fund shill
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
and the Fund such other information concerning said Project
Account and ANEC accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
and the Fund shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4q02. (a) During the Project implementation period,
the Borrower shall cause the Co-director of the Livestock Service:


﻿-10-
(i) to prepare an annual program of activities for the Livestock
Service and for ANEC, including budgetary requiy,ements therefor;
(ii) not later than three months before the beginning of t.he
program year (or such other date as the Association and the
Fund may agree), to furnish said program to the Association
and the Fund for their comments and approval; and (iii) there-
after to carry out said program and provide sufficient budgetary
funds therefor. The first annual program shall be furnished
to the Association and the Fund not later than March 31,
1980, or such other date as the Association and the Fund cay
agree.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the Borrower shall provide the Association and the Fund, quarterly
during the Project implementation period and thereafter annually
for the next five years, with reports on the carrying out of
the Project and on ,the operation and management of the Project
facilities. Such reports shall be furnished in such form and
in such detail and within such a period as the Fund and the
Association shall reasonably request and shall indicate, among
other things, progress made and problems encountered during the
period under review, steps taken or proposed to be taken to remedy
these problems and proposed program of activities and expected
progress during the following period.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that all buildings,
equipment and installations provided under the Project will
be adequately managed and maintained and that all necessary
repairs thereof will be made in accordance with sound engineering
practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall elaborate a\ system designed
to generate revenues in order to maintain the activities of the
Livestock Service and, by December 31, 1983 or such later date as
the Association and the Fund may agree, shall consult with the
Association and the Fund on the adequacy of the proposed system to
be made applicable thereafter taking into account the comments of
the Association and the Fund.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that, after the
completion of the Project, the sub-part of the Project Account
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement continues
to be carried out.


﻿- 11 -
9-1- moag-ifoi?
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. (a) The Association is hereby apointed by
the Fund and agrees to act as the Cooperating Institution for the
administration of the Fund Loan, with the responsibilities set
forth in Article V iof the General Conditions applicable to Lan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Fund. ,Accordingly, "any action
required or permitted to be take' by the Fund under thig Agree-
ment, other than actions by the Fund referred to in Section 2.05
thereof, shall be taken by the Association as the Cooperating
Institution on behalf of the Fund, except as otherwise agreed
betweer 'the Association and the Fund.
(b) The Association and the Fund shall fully cooperate
to ensure effective coordination of their respective actions under.
the IDA Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement ,and the
achievement of the purposes of the IDA Credit and the. Fund Loan.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
and the Fund sufficient evience of the authority of the person or
persons who will sign the applications provided for under Article
II of this Agreement or who will, on behalf of the Borrower, take
any other action or execute any other documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by the Borrower under this
Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
SeCtion 5.03. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Planning or such persons as he shall designate in
writing -are designated as the representative of the Borrower to
takg any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.04. (a) Except ,as shall otherwise be agreed by
the parties hereto, this Agreement shall become effective on the
earliest date : upon wich the IDA Credit Agreement, the Special
Action Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement shall be in
effect.
(b) If the IDA Credit Agreement or Special Action Credit
Agreement or Fund Loan Agreement terminates for failure to become
J2


﻿7 -7,--                              - - ~  --  . -  -
-12 -
effective in accordance with its terms, this Agreement shall
forthwith terminate and the Association or the Fund, as the case
may be, shall promptly notify the other parties hereto of such
termination.
Section 5.05. This Agreement and all obligations thereunder
of t-e parties hereto shall terminate on the date upon which
the IDA Credit Agreement, the Special Action Credit Agreemeåt and
the Fund Loan Agreement shall have terminated or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
Section 5.06. Upon termination of the IDA Credit Agreement
or the Special Action Credit Agréement or the Fund Loan Agreement
only, the Association or the Fund, as the case may be, shall
promptly notify the other parties hereto and, upon such notifica-
tion, this Agreement shall continue to remain in force and effect
only for the purpose of implementation of the IDA Credit Agree-
ment, the Special Action Credit Agreement or the Fund Loan Agree-
ment and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to
the parties hereunder, subject to such modifications of this
Agreement as shall be agreed among the parties hereto or as shall
be reasonably requested by the Association or the Fund for such
purposes..
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made by any party under this Agreement shall be
in writing. Such notice or request'shall be deémed to have been
duly given or made when it shall have been delivered by hand or
mail, telegram, cable, radiogram or telex to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address specified below or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning, Statistics and
International Cooperation
P.O. Box 732
Bangui
Central African Empire


﻿-13-
Cable Address:                      Telex:
MINIPLAN                            MINIPLAN
Bangui                              5208 RC
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Fund: (except for matters within the responsibilities
of the Association or the Cooperating Institution for administra-
tion of the Fund Loan, for which notice or requests will be
delivered to the Association):
International Fund for
Agricultural Development
Via del Serafico 107
00142
Rome
Italy
Cable address:                      Telex:                                 3
IFAD                               614160 IFAD Rome
Rome                               614162 IFAD Rome
Section 5.08. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. All such coun-
terparts shall collectively be but one instrument.
tå,


﻿14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names, and to be delivered
in the District of Columbia, United States of America, and Rome,
Italy, as of the day and year first above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
By /s/ Amfide Fanga Mbourounda
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Xavier de la RenaudiAre
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Sudeary
I. -IX                                                                              - . -4~


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
IDA Credit and Fund Loan
1.   The table b-low sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan,
the allocation of amounts of the IDA Credit and the Fund Loan to
each Category and the respective percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
% of
Expenditures
Category                Amount Allocated       to be- Financed
IDA          Fund
Credit        Loan
(Expressed   (Expressed
in Dollar      in SDR
Equivalent) Equivalent)
Civil wotks            210,000      164,000         60%
<2) Vehicles and            330,000      257,000        60%
equipment
(3) Operating costs         480,000      374,000        60%
and maint-enance
(4) Veterinary products      30,000       24,000        20%
(5) Expatriate staff        630,000      491,000        60%
salaries
(6) Local staff sal-        270,000      211,00         16%
aries
(7) Studies and sur-        300,000      234,000        60%
veys
(8) Unallocated             250,00      195,00
TOTAL,          2950000      1 950,000
{


﻿16-
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the IDA Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to beU
financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit or the Fund Loan
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the, disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisiodis of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) expendi-
o  tures under Categories (1) through (4) for Part C.1, 2 and 3 of
the Project until adequate legislation covering the establishment
of cooperative herdsmen's associations has been enacted and
pasture areas have been demarcated and assigned exclusively to
said associations.
'4.  Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the IDA
Credit or Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reason-
_ably estimated that the amount of the IDA Credit or the Fund Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association may, by notice, to the Borrower; (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the IDA Credit or the Fund Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the dpinion of the
'Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce' the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If  the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the IDA Credit or the Fund Loan and the Association or the Fund
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association under the IDA Credit Agreement


﻿- 17 -
or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the IDA Credit or the Fund Loan,
respectively, as, in the Association's or. the Fund's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the IDA Credit or the Fund Loan, 'aspectively.
L [,z-


﻿18-
SCREDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's olijective is to assist, as part of the Bor-
rower 's initial phase of a long-term livestock development
program, in increasing the Borrower's livestock production poten-
tial through the improvement of livestock servicedsto traditional
herdsmen, the strengthening of the Borrower 's services in charge
of livestock development, the introduction and testing of simple
pasture management techniques and of pre-cooperative ad?coopera-
tive herdsmen 's associations in a pilot ,zone and the carrying out,
of a series of studies and surveys of animal' health problems,
pasture resources and sector development strategy.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Animal Health and Production Program
The animal health and production program to be carried oUt,
through the Livestock Service which -shall be reorganized and
provided with additional means, shall include:
1.   Providing health services for about 700,000 head of cattle
initially in the Western part of the Borrower 's territory, to
be rendered by a basic network of about 100 veterinary posts
(under the supervision of about 16 veterinary centers), each
covering a 45 km radius and about 7,000 head of cattle; each
veterinary post shall be headed by a AgTE who shall visit the
herds in his, area of. responsibility on a regular basis and
shall be responsible, under the technical direction of a
AdTE, for the administration of animal health services
including, inter, alia, prophylactic treatments to defined
classes of cattle, the distribution of veterinary products
and the use of about seven dipping tanks to be reactivated
under the Project.
2.   Strengthening of the Inspectorate for the Central Region of
the Livestock Service and of two veterinary centers in the
Western part of the Borrower 's territory through the provi-
sion of vaccines, vehicles and staff for controlling move'
ments of cattle entering and leaving the territory.
3.   Staffing and further equipping of the veterinary laboratory
at Bouar for the diagnosis of diseases and distribution of
animal health products to veterinary centers.


﻿-19-
4    Strengthening and further, equipping of the meat inspection
service at Bo;uar,.
5.   Improying animal production and marketing through the dis-
semination of relevant information to- herdsmen, including
encouragement to modify- herd m nanagement practices, the
provision of mineral supplements and the reinstitution of a
systeå for improving pasture management, in particular
through controlling transhumance routes and destinations.
Part B: _Training -
Improvement of the train g for middle-level technicians
offered at the Livestock TechnicalCollege at Bouar, through,
inter alia, the provision of qglified teaching staff to
serve full-time, including a livestock education specialist
to be appointed as Principal of the College, the initiation
of a retraining program for all existing field staff and of
an amended curriculuvK of the regular four-year course for
AgTEs, and the provision of a four-wheel drive passenger
truck and camping equipment for field trips.
2.   Training of high-level åtaff through short-term specialized
courses in Africa or elsewhere.
Part C:   Topia Pilot Scheme
Under the supervision of the Topia Pilot Scheme Manager,
a study of the pasture resources by an agrostologist and an
inventory _of' the cattle he rd, and as a result thereof, the
demarcation of usable pasture areas and of thë Pilot Scheme
areas shall be cafried out.
Initially, the Topia Pilot Scheme shall be carried out in
area - of the Topia Zone, in phases as listed hereunder, con-
sisting of the following:
1.   Construction and repair of buildings, firebreaks and a
dipping tank, and clearing of river bank areas in order to
create a natural tsetse'barrier.
2.   Establishment of cooperative herdsmen's associations, whIch
shall be gIven exclusive and permanent grazing rights on well
defined pasture areas subject to the compliance of pasture


﻿-20-
management criteria determined in agreement with the Topia
Ji                        Pilot Scheme Manager and assignment of usable pasture areas
to the said associations.
3.   Intensive animal health and production campaign concentrating
on deworming calves and encouraging the use of feed supple-
ments.    9
Upon the completion and positive evaluation of the activities
in area I, the Topia Pilot Scheme shall be extended, in phases
similar to those followed for area I, to areas II and III of the
Topia Zone after approval of the Association and the Fund.
Part D:   Studies and Surveys
1.   Study of tsetse and trypanosomiasis incidence and elaboration
of a tsetse eradication program and a prophylactic program
for trypanosomiasis.
2.   LANDSAT survey of pastural resources.
3.   Investigation of the cattle production and marketing system
with a view to developing. an efficient cattle-marketing
system including, inter alia, the. feasibility of using
cooperative herdämen's associations as marketing organiza-
tions.
4.   Elaboration of a livestock development strategy, including
financial proposals to ensure the, continuation of the Live-
stock Service activities, and the preparation of a follow-up
project mainly on the basis of the evaluation of Project
results, with a particular emphasis on animal production,
disease incidence, nutrition, income distribution and migra-
tory movements of the M'Bororo people.
*               *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with, those set forth' in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of -the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidder for the works included in the Projet may be prequali-
fied as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For bidding purposes, contracts for orders for the purchase
of vehicles and equiment shall be grouped to the extent feasible,
so as to permit bulk procurement.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competit'ive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
5


﻿4 4
-22-
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Central African Empire may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject Ato, the' following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents f or the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any prefelence which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Central African Empire if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added 'n the Central African
Empire equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Central African Empire.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
b= selected for the award,
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
, ;g 15


﻿- 23 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group_ C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated
bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Joint Project Agreement and to be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this Sche-
dule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors may be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including details
of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according
to the classification established by the Borrower an4 accepted by
the Association, a particular firm or group of firiis qualifies
for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in
the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿-24-
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for works and for the purchase of goods estimated
to cost no more than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract and
$600,000 in the aggregate, may be awarded under c6mpetitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with the Borrower's
procedures acceptable to the Association and the Fund.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by"the Association
1.   Review of pr6qualification:
If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association and
the Fund in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
and the Fund shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association and the
Fund for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association and the Fund shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed a4ards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated each to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the tiext of the invitations to
bidand the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
dir


﻿........  IJ
-25-
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Fund Account
in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account - and the Fund Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed Aopies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of thr, stipulated time for performance of, such contract, or
issuing~ any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
-1 PVI


