tii
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 894 CA
Development Credit                                  eement
(Livestock Development Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 10, 1979
11


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 894 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1979, between CENTRAL AFRICAN
EMPIRE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of a livestock development project by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by agreement. of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Special Action Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower a credit (hereinafter called the
Special Action Credit) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent-
to about five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) to assist in
financing the same project on the terms and conditions therein set
forth. Said Special Action Credit is granted by the Association as
Administrator of the Special Action Account established by the
Association with funds contributed by the Member States of- the'
European Economic Community;
(G) by agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Fund Loan Agreement), the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (the Fund) has agreed to make a loan (hereinafter
called the Fund Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to one million nine hundred fifty thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,950,000) to assist in financing the
same project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(D) the Borrower, the Association, and the Fund have entered
into an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the
Joint Project Agreement) providing for the allocation, withdrawal
and use of the Credit and the Fund Loan and execution of the
Project to be financed thereby as such Project is described in
Schedule 2 to said Joint Project Agreement, as well as other
matters relating thereto; and
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (hereinafter called the ADF) a loan (hereinafter
called the ADF Loan) in an aggregate principal amount of three
million Units of Account (UA3,000,000) equivalent to about three
million three hundred thousand dollars ($3,300,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADF Loan Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF;
4 1,


﻿-2-
WHIEREAS the. Association has agreed, on the-,basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions herrindfter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisios of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and äf fect as if they were1 fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of , the Association being hereinaf ter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions, in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two million five, hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of  the Joint
Project Agreement.
Section, 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shäll promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
p<


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1989,,and ending
February 15, 2029, each installeent to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15ý 1999, to be one-half of one per ceni
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and eåch installment thete-
after. to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the pårposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Sectionw 2.08. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Planning and such other person or persons as he
shai° designate in writing are designated as representatives of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the Gener J Coditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions set forth in the Joint Project Agreement as if they were
fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional .events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:,
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit or of
the Fund Loan or of the ADF Loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project


﻿/-4
shall have been suspendéd, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part,   pursuant to
the terms and conditions of the ag?reement
providing therefor, or
(B) äuäh CreOdXt or any such loan shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shaly not apply
if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Froject are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and condit;ons consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Sectin 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof, namely, that the event åpecified in subparagraph (1)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specif ied as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Joint Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental action;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Action Credit Agreement have been duly fulfilled, except
for the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Fund Loan, Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by


﻿5-
all necessary governmental action and all other conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of the Pund Loan pursuant to the Fund
Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been duly fulfilled;
(d)  the execution and delivety on behalf of the Borrower of
the ADF Loaä Agreement have been duly authorized or ratif ied by
all necessary governmental action and all other conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of the AF Loan pursuant to the ADF Loan
Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been duly fulfilled;
(e) the Co-Director of the Livestock Service, the, chief
accountant/administrative officer and the Topia Pilot Scheme
Manager referred to in Section 3.03 of the Joint Project Agreement
have been employed and are in post; and
(f) 'the Project Account referred to in Section 3.02 of the
Joint Project Agreement has been established and the Borrower has
furnished evidence satisfactory to the Association that the
initial deposit' of about CFAF ninety million has been made.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be °included in the opinion or opiriions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Joint Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action, and is legally binding upon the Börrower in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date July 10, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Planning' is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
! ~~~


﻿-  6  -                                  -
For the Borrower
nistry of Planning, Statistics and
International Cooperation
P.0. Box 732
Bangui
Central African Empire
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINIPLAN                           MINIPLAN
Bangul                             5208 RC
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of merica
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           1440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF    the parties hereto, acting through
their representaltives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be s,kned in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE
By /s/ Amédée Fanga Mbourounda
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Xavier de la Renaudiäre
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
K1


