Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
Repeot No. P-4073-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$400.0 MILLION
TO
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
CHESF-FURNAS POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
May 15, 1985
Th doement hs a resticted distibati.u and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmce of
teir officil duties. Its contents zay not otherwise be disdosed withdt Woh Bank wauherizatidn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro (Cr$)
As of December 31, 1984
US$1 = Cr$2,720.00
CR$1 - US$.00037
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CHESF           -  Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco
DNAEE           -  Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
ELETROBRAS      -  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
FURNAS          - Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
GGF             -  Global Gdarantee Fund
GRF             -  Global Reversion Fund
IDB             -  Inter-American Development Bank
INPC           -  Consumer Price Index
IUEE           -  Imposto Unico de Energia Eletrica
(Sole Tax)
MME             - Ministerio de Minas e Energia
(Ministry of Mines and Energy)
ORTN            -  Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Treasury Notes)
SEAP            -  Secretaria Especial de Abastecimento e Precos
(Secretariat of Supplies and Prices)
SEPLAN          -  Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Ministry of Planning)
SEST            -  Secretaria de Controle de Empresas Estatais
(Secretariat for the Control of Government Companies)
SUBIN           -  Secretaria de Cooperacao Economica e Tecnica Internacional
(Secretariat for International Economic and Technical
Assistance)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
CHESF-FURNAS POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS)
Guarantor:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:     - Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF)
- Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A. (FURNAS)
Amount:            US$400.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending Terms:   ELETROBRAS will relend US$113.2 million of the proceeds
of the loan to CHESF and US$286.8 million to FURNAS on
the same terms and conditions as those of the loan. The
beneficiaries would bear the foreign exchange risk on
the Bank loan.
Project            The proposed project would support Government efforts to
Description:        reverse the financial deterioration of the sector.  It
is a priority project within the Government's 1984-88
Sector Development Plan which the Bank has analyzed and
approved (para. 44). The proposed loan would finance
the construction of transmission facilities included in
the 1985-1992 trans-ission expansion programs of CHESF
and FURNAS. It provides for the construction of about
1,730 circuit-kilometers of high voltage (RV)
transmission lines; construction of eight new
substations including the installation of about 5,400
MVA of transformer capacity and about 520 MVAR of
reactor and capacitor banks; expansion of sixteen
existing substations adding about 1200 MVA of
transformer capacity and about 1,260 MVAR of reactor and
capacitor banks. The project also includes training
programs for CHESF and FURNAS.
Benefits and       The proposed project would allow the two utilities to:
Risks:             meet Brazil's market power needs especially in the
*                             industralized cities located in the states of Sao Paulo,
Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais, Pernambuco, Bahia,
Alagoas, Paraiba, Ceara, Piaui and Sergipe; transfer the
electricity generated at the Itaipu hydroelectric plant
(now being commissioned) to the main consumption centers
of the Southeastern and Central-Western systems; achieve
higher system efficiency by reinforcing CHESF and FURNAS
networks and by interconnecting some isolated systems
(presently fuel consuming); and bolster CHESF's and
FURNAS' managerial and administrative capabilities
through training programs. The project itself does not
present any special technical risks. The main risk
derives from the financial difficulties currently
ihis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriaion.



- ii -
affecting the Brazilian power sector. These are being
addressed through a number of measures agreed between
the Government and the Bank that will progressively
improve the financial condition of the power sector
(para. 54).
Estimted Cost:
-US$ million
Local    Foreign   Total    x
CHESF sub-project                          89.3      69.8      159.1    21
training program                      1.0       4.0       5.0      1
FURNAS sub-project                        153.1    175.7       328.8    41
training program                      1.0       4.0       5.0      1
Base Costi/                               244.4    253.5       497.9    64
Physical Contingencies                     24.4      25.4       49.8     7
Price Contingencies                        67.3      69.7      137.0    18
Total Project Cost                        336.1    348.6       684.7    89
Interest during construction                -        87.9       87.9    11
Total                                     336.1    436.5       772.6   100
Financing Plan:
-US$ Million-
Local    Foreign   Total    Z
CHESF                                      28.2      13.1       41.3     6
FURNAS                                    149.6      23.4      173.0    22
IBRD                                        -       400.0     400.0    52
Government/ELETROBRAS                      78.4       -         78.4    10
Other Borrowings                           79.9       -         79.9    10
Total                                     336.1    436.5       772.6   100
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY    1986    1987  1988    1989   1990   1991   1992
Annual     31.13/  58.2  140.4   93.4   44.3   23.0    9.6
Cumulative 31.1    89.3  229.7  323.1  367.4  390.4  400.0
Rate of Return: About 11% rate of return on the investment programs of
CHESF and FURNAS, using agreed tariffs as a proxy measure
of benefits.2/
1/ At December 1984 prices. Includes taxes and import duties estimated at
1OZ of the base costs.
2/ Reflects tariff increases based on Bank-Government agreement of November
1983 (para. 50).
3/ Includes an initial deposit of US$10.0 million to Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$400.0 MILLION
TO CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE CHESF-FIJRNAS POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to ELETROBRAS with the guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil
for the equivalent of US$400.0 million to help finance the CHESF-FURNAS
Power Transmission project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
The proceeds of the loan would be made available by ELETROBRAS on the same
terms as the Bank loan to the beneficiaries-Companhia Hidro Eletrica do
Sao Francisco (CHESF) and Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A. (FURNAS)-to
finance priority transmission facilities included in the 1984-88 Sector
Development Plan. CHESF and FURNAS will assume the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY i/
2.        An economic report entIrled  Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum' (Report No. 5373-BR, dc-.ted February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 when President Joao
Figueiredo completed his six-year term in office. Its min economic
priorities have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of
umnufactured exports and reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the
same time an improvement in the situation and prospects of the most
economically disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the
Northeast. The prime political concern had been the return to a fully
democratic system of government. Much of the Government's attention, since
1980, had to be diverted from longer-term political and economic change
because of the stabilization problems confronting Brazil. In spite of the
economic recession and consequent social pressures, however, substantial
progress has been mde towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's
next stage of development.
1/ Parts I and II of this report are similar to the corresponding sections
of the President's Report for the Federal Railway-Export Corridor
Project (No. P-4067-BR) dated May 9, 1985.



-2-
4.        The presidential elections held in January 1985 resulted in the
election of Tancredo Neves, whose subsequent inability to take office on
schedule presented a crisis for the new Government. Dr. Neves died on
April 21 and Vice-President Jose Sarney became President in his stead, with
the task of pursuing the objectives stated by Dr. Neves and eliciting broad
popular support. The new Government has 3.ndicated that its primary
economic goal will be to restore the countryts economic growth in order to
expand employment opportunities, improve the remuneration of the labor
force, and bring about a more equitable distribution of income. It is
recognized that for this growth to be solidly based, it is necessary to
control inflation, put the finances of the public sector on a sound
footing, and overcome constraints on growth imposed by the balance of
payments.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11Z annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberaliation of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates
increased, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4
billion, or 5.0% of GDP. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110X.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline in GDP in 1981, ending the long per.kd of sustained
growth.  Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems among some major trading partners, and regional events leading to
the debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified
adjustment program. In February 1983 the IWF pledged financial assistance
of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and through the
Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loans due in 1983, and other measures of
financial support, which were later extended into 1984.



-3-
7.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and external borrowing requirements. The cruzeiro
was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and subsequently adjusted in line wita
domestic inflation, import restrictions were increased, and tight fiscal
and monetary restraints were imposed. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, and
exports increased by 8.5X in spite of adverse trading circumstances,
resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5 billion and a reduction in the
current account deficit from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about
5% of GDP) to US$6.2 billion. In 1984, these trends continued, with the
complete elimination of the current account deficit in the balance of
payments. Accordingly, in a period of two years Brazil achieved an
external adjustment equivalent to over 5X of GDP. At the same time, the
major source of internal disequilibrium, the public sector deficit, was
also brought under better control. Central Bank figures show that the
consolidated operational public sector deficit was reduced from 6.6% of GDP
in 1982 to 2.5Z in 1983; a small surplus was planned for 1984 but recent
information indicates that a significant deficit remains. Steps were taken
to eliminate product and interest rate subsidies, adjust relative prices
for fuel and other products, reduce public expenditures and increase
revenues. Thus, although inflation has remained high, substantial progress
was made towards establishing a new basis for growth. In particular,
strong export expansion duriag 1984 resulted in earnings in excess of US$27
billion and a trade surplus amounting to over US$13 billion.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments has nevertheless been
hig-i. Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages
in the supply of tradable goods, increases in administered prices, very
high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. GDP fell by
3.2Z in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the industrial
and commercial sectors. On !bat basis, per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83. For that period industrial employment fell by over 202,
with the largest reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the
main industrial centers.
9.       Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5%, or over 2% per capita. The increase in manufacturing
exports has led an incipient industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remains
relatively small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by depressed
domestic market conditions, however, which can be expected to continue
until there is some relaxation in the present austere demand management
policies. In particular, recovery is not likely to become generalized
until real interest rates fall from their present levels of 30-40%.
Economic Outlook
10.      The short-term economic outlook for Brazil appears somewhat more
encouraging than that of a year ago, although the Government faces a
difficult initial period of political adjustment to the loss of President
Tancredo Neves.  The balance-of-payments situation is much stronger, and
sone signs of recovery from the domestic reces:;ion are apparent. In



-4-
addition, the international economic situation appears more encouraging,
with at least a temporary easing of interest rates and oil prices.)
11.       The imnediate prospects for the balance of payments appear
encouraging, following the trade surplus of over US$13 billion obtained in
1984. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much
of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US
dollars, total exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the
comparable increase for industrial exports was 37Z. Reflecting the
favorable trade performance, Brazil's international reserve position also
iuproved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7 billion.
Exports in the first quarter of 1985 were 12Z lower than in the same period
of 1984. Reasons for this poorer export performance appear to include
slower growth in the United States, some appreciation of the cruzeiro
against currencies other than the US dollar, the phasing out of a fiscal
subsidy for manufactured exports, the removal of credit incentives for
exports, a severe shortage of export credit, and the iDposition of tighter
inport restrictions in several partner countries. Nevertheless, the
Government is aware of the problem and is taking remedial measures in those
areas in which it can act. These measures include the earmarking of some
credit resources for export production and a modification in the exchange
rate rules, which, should the monthly inflation rates continue to fall (as
in April), will result in an effective depreciation of the currency.
Similarly, the recent decline of the value of the US dollar vis-a-vis
European currencies should also strengthen Brazilian international
competitiveness. Accordingly, the overall export outlook remains, on the
whole, positive.
12.       Inflation remains a critical issue, but reducing it under the
current system of indexation and in the context of very resilient
inflationary expectations is proving to be exceedingly difficult.
Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce inflation, does of course
mitigate some of the adverse economic and social effects commonly
associated with inflation. A major challenge for the new Government will
be to restore confidence and, in doing so, dampen inflationary
expectations. To accomplish this, a comprehensive and consistent
medium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible economic program
will be essential.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, assuming the continuation of the recovery now becoming
evident. This recovery depends, however, both upon the economic policies
2/ Over three quarters of Brazil's external debt carries variable interest
rates, or is short-term, so that a change of 1% in average interest
rates means a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about US$750 million.
Similarly, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices has
an impact of up to US$300 million on the trade balance.



- 5 -
pursued by the Government and a number of external economic factors outside
the control of Brazilian policy-makers. The levels of international
interest rates and of oil prices, continued recovery in the OECD, the
avoidance of additional trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the
availability of modest net amounts of external financing, are all critical
for Brazil. At the same time, much will depend upon the conduct of
national economic policies by the incoming Government. The present
situation requires a comprehensive and integrated, medium-term, strategy
for structural adjustment and economic recovery. This strategy should
focus on further export promotion, greater productive efficiency, an
improved allocation of economic resources, reduced inflation, increased
investment and savings, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
14.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery,
Brazil could achieve substantial inprovements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance has turned positive with the large trade surpluses of 1983
and 1984. The current account deficit, which amounted to US$6.2 billion in
1983 (equal to about 3Z of GDP), turned into a small surplus in 1984.
Total medium- and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at
an annual rate of 4.3% from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. The projections assume that gross disbursements,
including amounts to be rescheduled, would rise from US$14.8 billion in
1985 to about US$20 billion in 1990, in current prices, and amortization
from US$11 billion to about US$15 billion in the same period, with net
disbursements averaging approximately US$4.5billion annually. For private
M&LT debt, the projections are consistent with reductions of total real
commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a reduced share of Brazilian loans
in total commercial bank lending portfolios. Ncvertheless, continued new
lending will be required for the foreseeable future.
15.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would inprove
substantially over the projection period. The total debt service ratio is
projected to fall from 72Z in 1982 to about 46% in 1990. In the short run,
debt service payments would reach levels threatening the present recovery,
without the debt rescheduling for which negotiations, initiated by the
previous Government, have still to be completed. The projections thus
assume rescheduling agreements which will minimize repayments of existing
principal at least in the earlier years. The total external debt as a
multiple of total goods and non-factor service exports is projected to
decline continually, after having reached a high of 3.4 in 1982. By 1990
the ratio is projected to have fallen to close to 2.0.
16.       One striking feature of the balance-of-payments projections is
the magnitude of the projected net financial medium- and long-term resource
transfers (excess of interest over net new borrowing) from Brazil to its
creditors. This transfer would amount to over US$7 billion in 1985. The
net resource transfer over the entire projection period would average 2% of
GDP annually, although declining. Even with these transters, however,
economic growth of a reasonable magnitude could occur.



-6-
17.       Base case projections, with the couponent ;ectors of GDP
projected on the basis of assumed economic policied and individual sectoral
prospects, show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, with GDP growth increasing
from a projected 4% in 1985 to over 7Z in 1990. Throughout the 1984-90
period an average increase in rea3 per capita consunption of near 3.5%
annually is projected. Even so, it would not be until 1988 that the 1980
level of per capita income would be restored.
18.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
uncertainties regarding future international market conditions. -
Nevertheless, some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of
Brazilian development strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon
the country's success in expanding exports.  Second, given the seriousness
of the external constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period
1984-90 will be more modest than during the 1970s. Third, to sustain that
more modest rate of growth will requ're both a continued net iuflow of
external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly improved
savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the clear
difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has the
economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out of
the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth
while continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil
should remain creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
19.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended
to rural areas, and upgrading and expanding health services for the poor
have received much government attention. Increased government efforts have
also been directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the
iimproved provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection
of these and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminar
estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard
and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real
income gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains,
as reflected by inproved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.
20.       Given the inpact of present economic difficulties on output and
employment, however, some of these gains may have been seriously eroded in
the present crisis. Slow growth in employment opportunities, at the rates
of GDP growth currently postulated for the 1980s, emerges as a potentially
serious problem. Large unemployment and underemployment would persist well
after the recession, unless growth can be accelerated and/or strategies
favoring more labor-intensive activities or technologies pursued.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1985 the Bank had made 136 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,866.7 million (net of cancellations), of which 64 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisbursed
amount as of March 31, 1985 was US$3, 560.3 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments
22.       Over the FY77-83 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,457 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. They were US$52.7 million for
a market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million
for an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural
credit and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase
of the Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$20.0 million for a technician training project, US$40.0 million for an
urban basic education project in the North-Centervest regions, US$210
million for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the federal highway
network, US$55.5 million for basic health care in the State of Sao Paulo
and US$2.0 million for national health studies. In addition, a total of
US$30.5 million of supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects was approved in FY84. Five loans totalling
US$511.0 million have been approved so far for Brazil in FY85. They were a
US$300.0 million loan for a third development banking project, a US$72.0
million loan for a science and technology project, two loans totalling
US$122.7 million for rural development projects in the Northeast of
Brazil, and US$16.3 million for a technical assistance and pilot rural
water supply and sanitation project. Work is advanced for a railways
project, for a power distribution project, and for a land titling project
in the Northeast.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.3% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5%.
24.       As of March 31, 1985, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,030.41 million, of which US$676.92 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$353.49 million, US$270.18 million
represent loans and US$83.31 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1985 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy conpatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.



-8-
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil 'a current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983, are
being reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing
under the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of
project costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES aimed at
strengthening industrial development along these lines bave already been
nade. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
iacentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector. In the electric power
sector, wich is presently in a financial crisis, the Bank's role will be to
assist the Government and sector authorities in their efforts to improve
the financial condition of the sector through realistic investment and
financial policies. In 1984, the Bank assisted the sector authorities in
preparing a Sector Development Plan for 1984 to 1988 (para. 44). The
Sectoral Plan which will be updated and reviewed by the Bank annually
serves as a basis for the proposed project as well as for other future Bank
operations in the electric power sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural



- 9 -
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and three loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, in medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
inprovement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Several projects for rural and
urban development, for health and for rural water supply and sanitation,
directed to the needs of the lowest income groups in the Northeast are
under preparation.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important cowponents of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have
been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten cofinancing
operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with
private financial institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are rather
limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of comercial
bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of
the debt rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more inportant in
the near future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new cofinancing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.
PART III. THE SECTOR
Energy Resources
31.         Brazil's energy resources comprise a vast hydropotential, as
well as oil shale, coal, nuclear fuels and biomass. Proven oil and gas
reserves are limited. Of the indigenous energy resources only hydro and
biomass currently play a significant role in the country's energy supply
mix, and though domestic oil production has increased significantly in the
last three years, in 1983 it covered only about 35% of the market
requirements. The potential for hydroelectric development is estimated at
about 213,000 KW of which about 50,000 MW are in use or under construction.



- 10 -
32.         Presently, the Government is making important efforts to increase
domestic oil production and to substitute oil with domestic alcohol, natural
gas, coal and other sources of energy. Started in 1975, production of
alcohol for use as fuel in internal combustion engines amounted in 1984 to 9
billion liters equivalent to 120,000 barrels of oil per day. The current
goal is to produce by 1993 about 20 billion liters of alcohol equivalent to
256,000 barrels of oil per day. In 1983, coal production was 5.2 million
tons, equivalent to 29,000 barrels of oil per day or about 4% of the energy
supply.  The Government expects that in 1993 coal production will be 21.8
million tons, equivalent to 104,000 barrels of oil per day, about 8Z of the
total energy supply. Brazil is also developing a nuclear generating capacity
which should have an important role in electricity generation beyond the year
2010, when most of the economically exploitable hydro resources would be
utilized. Efforts are also being made for a more intensive utilization of
other domestic energy resources, including burning wood and sugarcane bagasse
for electricity generation in isolated areas.
33.         In 1983, Brazil's gross energy consumption was 152 million tons
of oil equivalent (t.o.e.), or 1.2 t.o.e. per head of population and is
expected to grow at about 5.8% per annum through 1986, reaching about 1.33
t.o.e. per capita in 1986. Oil products, about 61% of them imported,
accouated for 35% of energy consumption and hydroelectricity for 292; the
remaining 36% was met mainly by coal, wood products., and bagasse.
National Energy Policy
34.       National energy policy has the following main objectives:
Ca) Conservation and rational use of energy to encourage maximum
efficiency in the utilization of energy resources;
(b) substitution of imported energy sources by domestic ones,
especially 'renewables", wherever technically and economically
feasible, to reduce dependence on imported petroleum and coal;
and
(c) exploitation of existing domestic energy resources and
intensification of search for new sources.
While (b) and (c) are desirable objectives, it is important for Brazil to
scrutinize further development of domestic energy sources carefully. Given
the country's domestic and external resource constraints and the prospects of
relatively stable real oil prices in the next decade, only cost-effective
substitutes which require relatively modest investments should be
undertaken.  Controlling energy consumption is also important.  The
Government could be using pricing more aggressively to promote conservation.
While the domestic price of gasoline and diesel are substantially higher than
the international price, LPG, fuel oil, and naphtba do not cover c.i.f.
international prices plus local distribution costs. Incentives for alcohol
use are still substantial; the retail alcohol price is 352 lower than the
gasoline price, although the energy differential between the two is closer to
20-25%. And, as discussed later on in this report, electric power rates are
substantially below the long-run marginal cost of production. Finally, as
long as the Government continues to regulate the energy sector, more
coordination in the development and use of the major fuels is needed in



- 11 -
order to reduce over-expansion of capacity. The issues related to power are
being dealt with through this and other Bank loans given to the sector, while
loans for alcohol and transportation address issues related to alcohol and
other fuels.
The Electric Power Sector
35.       The electric power sector is making an important contribution in
achieving the national energy policy goals listed above. Pricing of
electricity will be very important in encouraging conservation and promoting
efficient resource allocation. In this respect, progress has been sude
through marginal cost tariff studies carried out under loans 1300-BR, 1824-BR
and 1939-BR. The results of these studies will be put into effect over
several years in the framework of currently enacted legislation and should
result in more efficient use of installed capacity (para. 545. Plans for
generating plants to be built in the remainder of this century give emphasis
to the use of indigenous primary energy resources (hydropower, coal and
uranium). As 96% of electricity generated in the existing interconnected
systems is hydro; there is little room for displacing oil in power
generation. However, to make full use of the existing hydro generation
capacity, gradual substitution of electricity for oil products in industry is
being encouraged through application of low rates for interruptible and
off-peak electricity services.
Organization
36.       The institutional development of the Brazilian power sector over
the last 50 years has been characterized by progressive nationalization and
growing centralization, resulting in the consolidation of a few large and
hundreds of small utilities into a relatively compact structure of state and
federally-owned utilities. The power sector is under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) created in 1960.  Since then the aim has
been towards increasing sector efficiency and coordination with the
establishment of Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS) in 1962,
(paras. 41 through 43) and the strengthening of the Departamento Nacional de
Aguas e Energia Eletrica (DNAEE), within MME, as the regulatory agency for
the sector.
37.       Though complex, and one of the largest in the world, the
electric power sector is well organized and past policies have generally been
well formulated and applied. Decree 60,824 of June 7, 1967 established the
current sector organization under which DUJAEE grants licenses for generating
plants, assigns concessions, approves expansion plans and sets tariffs with
the approval by the Secretariat of Planning. ELETROBRAS, as a holding
company for the sector, administers public funds allocated to the sector and
coordinates external borrowings. ELETROBRAS also analyzes expansion plans
for major generating and transmission facilities and coordinates and
supervises the public power system.
38.       Four ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries (FURNAS, CHESF, ELETROSUL and
ELETRONORTE) are responsible primarily for regional generation and
high-voltage transmission systems. They act as bulk suppliers to state and
municipal utility companies which generally are responsible for
sub-transmission and electricity distribution. In addition to the four
regional subsidiaries, ELETROBRAS also owns ESCELSA (Espirito Santo Centrais



- 12 -
Eletricas), the power distributor for the State of Espirito Santo in the
Southeast, and LIGHT - Servicos de Eletricidade S.A., servicing the
metropolitan area of Rio de Janeiro. ELETROBRAS also holds the Government's
50X interest in the Itaipu Binacional, the binational agency set up in April
1973 by the governments of Brazil and Paraguay to build jointly the 12,600 MW
Itaipu hydroelectric facility on the Parana river.
39.       Since 1967 Government policy has been to consolidate public
electricity service in the individual states into single state-owned
utilities primarily responsible for distribution activities, although some of
them have also generation and transmission activities. This policy has
resulted in the absorption by the major state-owned companies of many
municipal and privately owned utilities and in the gradual transfer of
ELETROBRAS' ownership in distribution utilities to the state-owned
utilities. The major state-owned utilities are: Companhia Energetica de Sao
Paulo (CESP); Eletricidade de Sao Paulo S.A. (ELETROPAULO); Companhia
Energetica de Minas Gerais (CEMIG); Companhia Paranaense de Energia (COPEL);
Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica (CEEE) - Rio Grande do Sul; Companhia
Paulista de Forca e Luz (CPFL); Centrais Eletricas de Santa Catarina
(CELESC); Companhia de Eletricidade da Bahia (COELBA); Companhia de
Eletricidade de Pernambuco (CELPE), and Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara
(COELCE). All these utilities have been borrowers or beneficiaries under
past Bank loans. Despite this process of consolidation, the sector still
comprises 600 concessionaires, of which 25 are state companies and the rest
small municipal and private companies.
Growth of Demand
40.       In 1983, national average production of electricity was about 1,000
Kwh per capita; the industrial sector used 51X, and the residential sector
22%. Due to the high industrial and urban concentration in the states of Sao
Paulo and Rio de Janeiro the geographical distribution of demand is uneven.
Though the most developed states have promoted rural electrification, access
to electricity in rural areas for the whole country is still low (about
202). During the period of 1970 to 1980 electricity consumption rose at an
average annual growth rate of 13%, which is high when compared with other
countries. Though the annual increase in electricity consumption in the last
three years has been lower than the previous decade's, (3% in 1981; 6X in
1982; and 8X in 1983) they are still high when compared with other LDC
countries. Projections of electricity consumption, recently prepared by
ELETROBRAS, show that despite the difficult economic situation faced by the
country, demand was expected to grow 11Z p.a. in 1984 and at a moderate rate
of about 8% p.a. in the period 1985-1998, which would require a certain
degree of energy management through pricing.  The Government's intention
now ir to increase tariffs over time to reflect long-run marginal costs.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare and agree with the Bank
during 1985 a plan of action to implement by 1989 the recommendations of a
long-run marginal cost study financed by the Bank (Loan 1939-BR) (para. 54).
System Expansion Planning
41.       ELETROBRAS has the primary responsibility for the coordination of
planning in the power sector and for the preparation of systen gen-eration and
transmission expansion plans. Distribution planning is the responsibility of
each individual utility company but a higher degree of participation of



- 13 -
ELETROBRAS in the global assessment of the adequacy of the level of
investments of the individual utilities is needed, to ensure a consistent
approach. During negotiations, ELETROBRAS agreed to inplement by December
31, 1987, a medium term program satisfactory to the Bank, designed to
strengthen ELETROBRAS' role in the sector distribution planning and in the
provision of technical assistance in power distribution planning to less
developed electric power sector utilities (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
42.       ELETROBRAS is subject to the supervision of DNAEE in the
preparation of the plans for the sector, which are subject to the formal
approval of MME. However, in practice, DNAEE tends to concentrate on tariff
planning and on sector budgeting, which provides financial projections for
the ensuing three years. Since 1981 the responsibility for approving the
investment programs and tariff levels of public utilities has been exercised
by the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN). The composition of Brazil's current
generation expansion program for the 1980's was based, by and large, on
ELETROBRAS' demand forecasts prepared in the 1970s which are now seen to have
been too optimistic and to have assumed an availability of financial
resources which failed to materialize fully. This program resulted in
commitments for large generating plants (Itaipu, Tucurui and the nuclear
generating program) which are now nearing completion but which caused a
significant financial burden to the sector.
43.       ELETROBRAS has developed a set of mathematical planning models and
programs, specially suited to the size and complexity of the Brazilian power
sector, for preparing a comprehensive Master Development Plan every three or
four years. The latest generation and transmission development plan to meet
demand through the year 2000 (Plano 2000) was prepared in 1982. Plano 2000
is the result of a comprehensive planning process which includes evaluation
of energy resources and inter and intra sectoral coordination. The country's
major energy problem-its heavy dependence on oil imports -is reflected in
sector planning: Plano 2000 taps only indigenous resources-hydro, uranium
and coal-for expanding the generation system. A complete revision of Plano
2000 is scheduled for 1986; however, partial revisions are made annually to
adjust the expansion program to take into account changes in demand, peak
reduction through application of time-of-day tariffs, the effect of energy
substitution program, the progress of projects under construction, and
financial considerations.
The Power Sector Development Plan
44.       On the basis of the methodology of the Plan 2000 and in order to
address more effectively the urgent financial needs of the sector in the
medium term, ELETROBRAS with support from the federal and state utilities, in
consultation with SEPLAN, and with input from the Bank, prepared in 1984 a
general Power Sector Development Plan for the 1984 to 1988 period. This plan
serves as the basis for the proposed project and for other Bank operations in
the sector presently under consideration. For the preparation of the
Development Plan it was agreed that:
(i) the demand scenario would be based upon moderate targets on
expanding electricity coverage to the population; realistic
assumptions in relation to the possibility of implementing large
industrial projects; and, modest increases in electricity
consumption due to energy substitution;



- 14 -
(ii) the expansion plan would consider the mininum investments required
to provide electricity to the final user with levels of reliability
which, even though lower than the reliability levels traditionally
used in the sector for planning purposes, are still considered
acceptable;
(iii) investments in generation would be directed toward completing
ongoing construction and starting additional works to provide
energy needed after 1990;
(iv) investments in transmission would be directed toward completing
transmission networks required for transfering the energy generated
by projects nearing completion and constructing high priority
lines;
(v) investments in distribution would include increases in the level of
investment over those in the last few years which are considered
low in relation to the needs; and
(vi) the Government would take or allow to be taken measures to
strengthen the financial condition of the sector so that it may be
in a position to carry out the investment program.-
45.       Sector investment needs in the 1984-1988 period would be about
US$4.5 billion per year. This level of investment is low considering that it
is equal in nominal terms to the average sector investment realized in the
period 1979-1983, when the demand was considerably lower. However, it is
reasonable because of the heavy investment in generation made in the past and
the current scarcity of resources.
46.       The proposed project has been Identified as a priority investment
in the 1984-88 Development Plan. It is essential for transfering the energy
generated by projects nearing completion to the major industrial centers and
to a number of states in the Northeast of Brazil. Bank financing for this
project would support the financial rehabilitation of thepower sector by
monitoring through annual reviews the sectoral investment program and the
measures that would be taken by the Government for this purpose (para. 54).
Sector Finances
47.       The restructuring of the organization of the sector in the early
1960's, with ELETROBRAS as the federally-owned holding company, ELETROBRAS'
subsidiaries as entities primarily responsible for regional generation and
transmission, and state utilities as entities primarily responsible for
distribution, was part of a general plan to make the power sector an
important contributing factor to Brazil's economic development. The
corresponding policies included the setting of realistic tariff levels and
adequate equity contributions in face of an ambitious investment program
which would satisfy the national electricity requirements.
48.       As a result of these tariff policies, the consumer based fund
generation and its contribution to the growing investment program increased
steadily through the mid-1970's, at which time the sector reached a financial
soundness. In 1973, the net (after debt service) consumer based fund
generation had a share of 56Z in the sector's funding mix whereas borrowings



- 15 -
had a share of only 30Z; the rest being equity contributions. Coincidentally
with such sector financial soundness the sector initiated an even more
ambitious investment program which included three major generating schemes:
the Itaipu (12,600 NW) and Tucurui (7,600 MW) hydroelectric projects, and the
nuclear program. The heavy investment program in non-oil-fueled generating
schemes became more justifiable because of the oil crisis and the
proportionately large increases in oil prices. The oil crisis of the mid
1970's, however, also created a different set of financial conditions for the
Brazilian power sector as inflation affected substantially the cost of the
investment program and the Government's fight against inflation resulted in a
deterioration of real tariff levels and of the consumer-based contribution to
the investment program. As a consequence, the sector became increasingly
dependent on borrowings.
49.       The increasing dependency on borrowings, coupounded by increasingly
harder lending terms, created a heavy debt service burden for sector finances
in the late 1970's and early 1980's. In 1983, the sector's debt service was,
for the first time, greater than the consumer based fund generation, thus
resulting in a negative self-finance ratio for the sector investment program.
50.       After a review of sector finances with the Bank, the Federal
Government agreed in September 1981, to increase power rates in real terms by
at least 3% in 1982 and by at least 5Z in 1983 and thereafter, until the
annual 10% rate of return for the power sector as a whole has been
attained-which is required by Brazilian law-and shortfalls occurring since
1978 have been recovered. However, because of slippage in the dates of rate
increases in 1982, and slow growth in demand, sector revenues had not
expanded as expected. Consequently, in December 1983 the Government and the
Bank agreed on a series of measures aimed at improving the financial
situation of the sector. Such measures include a commitment from the
Government that the electric power sector will reach a 10% financial rate of
return in 1989, to be achieved by improving the rate of return by one point
each year. It is to be achieved through tariff increases and other measures
aimed at reducing operating costs. To achieve the agreed rate of return in
1984 and 1985 the Government agreed to increase tariffs by 5% in real terms
each year. Beyond 1985, the Government agreed to review with the Bank by
January 1986, the financial performance of the power sector and to agree on a
program of tariff increases and other measures required to achieve the agreed
rates of return targets in future years. Failure to achieve the agreed rates
of return and to reach agreement on the program of tariff increases for 1986
and thereafter by January 15, 1986, shall entitle the Bank to suspend
disbursements under all loans to the power sector in Brazil. The tariff
increases are to be achieved through a series of quarterly tariff
adjustments. The increases are to be made effective no later than February
1, May 1, August 1, and November 1, each year. The increases of February 1
and May 1 are to include one-half each of the real increase that has been
agreed for the year. So far the Government has complied with the 1983
agreement. Tariff increases have been introduced on the dates agreed with
the Bank. In fact in 1985, the Government has already increased tariffs by
5% in real terms. The increases were introduced in February and March
instead of February and May as provided by the agreement with the Bank.
Also, as provided in the 1983 agreement, the sector reached the agreed 5%
rate of return in 1984. Although the success of the sector's financial
rehabilitation depends basically on increasing the consumer based fund
generation, two other conditions are quite inportant to ensure such success:



- 16 -
(i) rationalization of the sector Investment program through a greater
emphasis on transmission/distribution development in order to
balance the heavy generation investments made in the past, with no
growth in investments until 1988; and
(ii) reduction in the high debt pressure on sector finances through an
iiprovement in the sector's debt profile and a decreasing reliance
on borrowings as a source of financing.
51.       As provided by the 1983 agreement, the Brazilian Government and the
Bank will hold a meeting in January 1986, to agree on the measures that are
necessary to achieve the annual rate of return targets beyond 1985. As
indicated above, such measures will most likely include actions to increase
the level and to modify the structure of electricity tariffs.  The average
electricity price level in Brazil is still low, both on financial and
economic grounds, and needs to be increased to inprove the sector's finances
BRAZIL - POWER SECTOR
Investment Program and Financing Plan Summary
(in billions of December 1984 US$)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1984-88    Z
Requirement of Funds
Construction program    3.1    4.2    3.9    4.0    4.2       19.4    78.6
Loans to Itaipu          0.5    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.6       2.9    11.7
Sub-total            3.6    4.7    4.5    4.7    4.8       22.3    90.3
Increase in working
capital                 1.2    0.2    0.3    0.4    0.3       2.4     9.7
Total requirements   4.8    4.9    4.8    5.1    5.1       24.7   100.0
Sources of Funds
Gross consumer-based
generation              3.5    4.2    5.3    6.7    7.7      27.4   111.0
Debt service and
dividend payments      (4.3)  (3.6)  (4.4)  (4.8)  (5.0)   (22.2)  (89.6)
Net consumer-based
generation             (0.8)   0.6    0.9    1.9    2.7       5.2    21.4
Equity contributions      1.6    0.9    0.3    0.2    0.2       3.2    13.0
Borrowings                4.0    3.4    3.6    3.0    2.2      16.2    65.6
Total sources        4.8    4.9    4.8    5.1    5.1       24.7   100.0
-m                      -      



- 17 -
and the country's internal savings. The tariff structure has been disrupted
in the last few years through a series of special tariffs, basically for oil
substitution and export promotion, which are a fraction of the already low
normal industrial tariffs. Under these conditions, neither the tariff level
nor the tarIff structure are conducive to electricity conservation. As a
result of this tariff scheme, during the last few years, electricity
consumption grew at fairly high rates despite a negative or low rate of
growth in the country's economy. In line with its policy for energy
conservation and its intention to rehabilitate the finances of the sector,
the Government's strategy now is to increase tariffs over a reasonable period
of time to be in line with long-run marginal costs (para. 54).
52.       Under the 1984-88 Sectoral Development plan, the Government with
assistance from the Bank, prepared during 1984 a financial plan to enable the
sector to finance the 1984-88 investment program and to rehabilitate the
financial condition of the sector.
53.       This plan shows that the financial rehabilitation of the power
sector will be attained during the projection period (1984-1988) as the
deteriorating trend in sector finances will be reversed. Even though the
level of sector finances is not expected to be satisfactory during the first
two years of the projection period, an improvement in the sector's funding
mix will start during these years as the consumer-based contribution will
increase steadily whereas the reliance on borrowings will decrease and the
sector is expected to reach an adequate level of financial soundness before
the end of the projection period.
54.       The main assumptions on which the sector's financial rehabilitation
is based under the 1984-88 Sectoral Development Plan, and the corresponding
agreements that were reached with the Government during negotiations are
shown below:
(a)  The Federal Investment Program and Financial Plan (Paras. 44, 45
and 46): Prior to loan negotiations the Government informed the
Bank of its intentions to carry out the 1984-1988 investment
program and financial plan prepared by ELETROBRAS and found to be
acceptable by the Bank. The Government is now reviewing the Plan
to ensure that it is in line with the national economic program.
It has informed the Bank that by July 31, 1985 it will send to the
Bank an approved 1984-1988 Investment Program and Financial Plan.
Consequently, the following agreements were reached with the
Government during negotiations:
Ci)    as a condition of loan effectiveness the Government will
present to the Bank its 1984-1988 investment program and
financial plan, formally approved by the Government and
satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 1.01 (i) and 8.01 (e) of
the draft Loan Agreement);
(ii)    the Government will submit to the Bank by November 30 of
each year an updated five-year investment program and
financial plan, both to be satisfactory to the Bank
(Sections 3.01(e) of the draft Guarantee Agreement);



- 18 -
(iil)    the Government will carry out the five-year investment
program in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices and
shall provide or cause to be provided to the sector the
funud and other resources required in accordance with the
provisions in the five-year financial plan (Section 3.01(c)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement); and
(iv)    the Government will take all actions expected to enable the
electric power sector companies to carry out a program
satisfactory to the Bank aimed at reducing over a resonable
period, the sector's reliance on borrowings (Section 3.02 of
the Draft Guarantee Agreement.
(b)  Long Run Marginal Cost Study:  During negotiations the Government
agreed to prepare, and agree with the Bank during 1985, a plan of
action to complete inplementation by December 1989 of the
recommendations of the long-run marginal cost study that is being
financed by the Bank (Loan 1939-BR) (Section 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
Cc) Itaipu Tariffs: During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government that if tariffs for bulk sale of electricity
generated at Itaipu were to exceed the levels now charged by
Brazilian power suppliers in the South, Southeast and Central-
Western regions of Brazil, the Federal Government will prouptly
take measures required to offset cost increases arising from high
Itaipu tariffs and to ensure that the rates of return agreed with
the Bank are met (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Financial Information and Financial Planning System
55.       The procedures used to consolidate the financial information for
the sector as a whole are not adequate. While the ELETROBRAS Group issues
yearly consolidated financial statements for its subsidiaries, the sector's
historic financial information originates from different sources (several
departments of ELETROBRAS or DNAEE). This financial information is prepared
under different criteria; the final versions of each statement are completed
at different times, and the coverage is not always comprehensive for all the
utilities in the sector. The present procedures need substantial improvement
to allow a better analysis of sector finances.
56.       Similarly, the financial planning system of the Brazilian power
sector has not yet been able to consolidate in a timely fashion the financial
projections of the utilities to arrive at sector aggregates. Therefore,
projections used for sector analysis do not contain details of each utility's
finances and are prepared using a computer model which is not compatible with
the computer models used for financial projections by the individual
utilities. The process is slow as several months are needed to obtain
projections of individual utilities, consistent with the sector projections.
In the case of Brazil such slowness is critical as conditions change rapidly
and frequently, especially because of high inflation. Thus the sector's
financial planning system should be inproved to allow more reliable and
timely analyses of financial forecasts.



- 19 -
57.       During negotiations, ELETROBRAS agreed to carry out a study to
consolidate, in a timely and consistent fashion, the historical financial
information and financial planning systems for the power sector, with a view
to, inter alia, avoiding duplication of systems.  This study would be
completed by December 31, 1986 and its conclusions would be implemented
taking into account the Bank's comments in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
58.       Since 1949, the Bank's loans to the Brazilian power sector  have
amounted to about US$2.4 billion. Most of the loans have been for
hydroelectric plants and associated transmission facilities in the
Southeastern and Southern regions, but the most recent loans have been mainly
for transmission and distribution projects, and included beneficiaries
outside these two regions. The Bank's lending strategy in the sector has
been, besides financing high priority projects, to promote rational tariff
policies, monitor sector finances and keep continuous dialogue on measures
required for their progressive improvement, act as catalyst for the
mobilization of funding from other sources, and help strengthen sector
coordination and planning. Given the country and the sector's present
financial crisis, the Bank's role in the future would be-to assist the
Government and sector authorities in their efforts to inprove the financial
condition of the sector through realistic investment and financial policies.
The Bank began to assist the Government's efforts to inprove the financial
situatior of the sector with the tariff agreement of September 1981,
supplemented with the rate of remuneration agreement of November 1983 (para
50). Since then, sector authorities and the Bank collaborated in preparing
the 1984-88 sector Development Plan which will be the general framework for
future Bank sector operations. Because the sector's present financial
constraints are so stringent the Bank would further assist the sector by
financing interest on the Bank loan during the first four and one half years
of the construction period of this project. Nine project performance audit
reports3/ have been distributed to the Executive Directors. These reports
conclude that, despite construction delays, cost overruns in some cases, and
the beginning of a deteriorating financial trend in the late 1970s Bank
financing had been substantially successful. In general, such reports
emphasized the useful role played by the Bank in the Brazilian Power Sector.
3/ Sec M 75-646 of September 4, 1975; Sec M 77-532 of June 28, 1977;
Sec M 789-34 of January 16, 1978; Sec M 79- 82 of February 12, 1979;
Sec M 79-756 of October 23, 1979; Sec M 79-757 of October 23, 1979;
Sec M 79-905 of December 29, 1979; Sec M 81-532 of June 22, 1981; and
Sec M 84-632 of July 9, 1984.



- 20 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
59.       The project is a priority project within the National Power
Rehabilitation Plan which has been analysed and approved by the Bank. It was
prepared by CHESF and FURNAS and it was appraised in November 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1985. The Brazilian Delegation
was led by Mr. Carlos Roberto Cristalli, Coordinator of the World Bank
Lending Program in the Secretariat of Planning.  A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "CHESF-FURNAS" Power Transmission Project (No. 5539-BR) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project
information is shown in Annex III.
Project Objectives
60.       The proposed project would allow the two utilities to:  meet the
power market needs especially in the highly industralized cities located in
the states of Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Rio de Janeiro and in several
states in the Northeast of Brazil; transfer the electricity generated Ly the
Itaipu hydroelectric plant, now being commissioned to the main consumption
centers of the Southeastern and Central-Western systems; achieve higher
system efficiency by reinforcing CHESF and FURNAS networks and by
interconnecting some isolated systems;and bolster CHESF and FURNAS managerial
and administrative capabilities through training programs.
Project Description
61.       The project consists of priority high voltage (HV) transmission
lines and substation works which are urgently required to meet CBESF and
FURNAS future demand with minimum but acceptable levels of quality and
reliability. It also includes training programs to meet the future training
needs of the two beneficiaries.
Part A: CHESF
(i) HV Transmission lines: Construction of about 940 circuit-
kilometers of 500 kV and 230 kV transmission lines;
(ii) Substations: Installation of about 1,900 MVA of transformer
capacity and about 1,070 KVAR of compensating capacity
(capacitors and reactors) and substation ancillary equipment
ten substations;
(iii) Trainulg Program: Implementation of a training program
addressed to: (a) upgrade existing training facilities
(laboratory and training equipment); and (b) develop CHESF
staff skills through scholarships and specialized courses
abroad. It is planned that about 270 CHESF staff would be
trained during the 1985-1991 period under this program.



- 21 -
Part B: FURNAS
(i) HV Transmission lines: Construction of about 790 circuit-
kilometers of transmission lines at 500 kV and 345 kV;
(ii) Substations: Installation of about 4,700 MVA of transformer
capacity and about 710 MVAR of compensating capacity and
other substation ancillary equipment at thirteen substations;
(iii) Training Program: Implementation of a training program
with the objective of developing FUINAS staff skills through
scholarships and specialized courses in Brazil and abroad and
of upgrading its training facilities. It is planned that
about 520 FURNAS staff would be trained during the 1985-1991
period under this program.
The Borrower and the Beneficiaries
62.       ELETROBRAS would be the Borrower and would relend the proceeds of
the loan to CRESF and FURNAS on the same terms and conditions as those of the
loan. The execution by ELETROBRAS of subsidiary Loan Agreements with the
beneficiaries on terms satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 8.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The two
beneficiaries would bear the foreign exchange risk and the interest risk on
the Bank's loan. All three entities are former Bank borrowers.
63.       The Federal Government holds 99.8% of ELETROBRAS shares and 100% of
its voting stock. The President is appointed by the President of the
Republic. He chairs the meetings of the Administrative Board, which is also
comprised of five Directors and four Counselors elected by the shareholders.
One of the Counselors represents the private shareholders. The
Administrative Board sets policy, approves the annual budget, decides on
borrowings, and bears responsibility for investment and its financing of
power utilities. The President and the five Directors, who head the five
directorates of ELETROBRAS, run the day-to-day operations and may make policy
recoimendations to the Administrative Board.  The beneficiaries are
subsidiaries of ELETROBRAS. About 99.2% of the stock of each of them is held
by ELETROBRAS.
64.       CHESF has a total installed capacity of 6,076 MW of which 93% is
hydroelectric and the balance is oil-fired power plant. CHESF sells the
electricity it generates in bulk to consumers at high voltage level through a
transmission system currently comprising 12,250 kilometers of transmission
lines operating at 500 kV,m 230 kV, 138 kV and 69 kV and 72 substations with
an installed transformation capacity of 16,070 MVA. During 1984, CRESF
provided almost 100% of the electricity consumed in the area of its
concession through sales to eight state-owned utilities, two municipal
companies, and twelve large industrial consumers which are directly connected
to CHESF's 230 kV system. CHESF total electricity sales increased at an
average annual rate of about 11.6% between 1980 and 1984. During the same
period, maximum demand increased at an average annual rate of 7.0%. CHESF 's
total electricity requirements are expected to grow during the period
1984-1992 at an average annual rate of 7.1%, which is in line with the
sector average projections (about 7.5%).



- 22 -
65.       CHESF is a well-organized and mnaged company. Policy is
formulated by a three-member Administrative Couacil, which appoints a
seven-member Bard of Directors to run the company. At the end of 1983, the
staff numbered 11,500, which is reasonable considering the characteristics of
its service area. CHESF has modern financial systems for planning and
budgeting purposes; its accounting and billing systems are also
satisfactory. CHESF's insurance practices are not adequate mainly due to low
coverage on its fixLd assets and lack of monetary correction for
compensations. To design an appropriate insurance policy, CHESF agreed
during negotiations to carry out a comprehensive study on its insurance
requirements under terms-of-reference satisfactory to the Bank. The study
would be completed by June 30, 1986 and its recommendations implemented no
later than January 1987 (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Projec- Agreement).
CHESF's training programs and facilities are satisfactory. Training services
are provided on a regular basis and havc been extended to other Brazilian and
South American power utilities. Futuce Erdining needs are being addressed by
the proposed project (para. 61).
66.       FURNAS has an installed capacity of 7,466 MW, of which 91% of the
total is hydroelectric and the rest is oil-fired. Additionally, a nuclear
power generating plant, Angra I with a capacity of 626 MW, is under
commissioning tests. FURNAS deli-ers electricity to its customers through a
transmission system which includes 10,700 circuit kilometers of transmission
lines at 750 kV, 500 kV, 345 kV, 230 kV and 138 kV. Additionally, it
operates 30 substations with a total transformation capacity of 17,000 MVA.
FURNAS supplies electricity to the four Southeastern states of Minas Gerais,
Espirito Santo, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro; to the twc, Central-Western
states of Mato Grosso do Norte and Goias; and to the city of Brasilia.
Electricity consumption in the area of concession served by FURNAS, known as
the Southeast and Central-Western Interconnected System, represents about 70%
of the total consumption in Brazil. FURNAS supplies about 32% of the
electricity consumed in the above area through bulk sales at high voltage
levels to five state-owned utilities; to three utilities owned by the
ELETROBRAS group; to one municipal company; and to one private company.
67.       The electricity requirements of the Southeast and Central-Western
Interconnected System, served partially by FURNAS, increased at an aierage
annual rate of 5.6% between 1980 and 1984, while maximum demand increased at
an average annual rate of 5.1% during the same period. FURNAS total
electricity requirements alone increased at an average annual rate of about
5.8% between 1980 and 1984. During the same period, maximum demand has
increased at an annual average rate of about 7.3%. The above rates are
similar to the ones of the Southeast and Central-Western Interconnected
System. The electricity requirements of the Southeast and Central-Western
Interconnected System are expected to grow during 1984-1992 at an average
annual rate of about 5.9% which is somewhat lower than the national average
of 7.5% due to greater saturation of the electricity market in this area
which is more developed than the rest of Brazil. It is expected that FURNAS
will increase its share of supply in the Southeast and Central-Western System
as it will be marketing, starting in 1985, the bulk of the electricity to
become available from the Itaipu bydroelectric plant. It is estimated that
FURNAS will be supplying by 1992 about 66% of the electricity consumed in the
area of its concession, or, a 100% increase since 1984.



- 23 -
68.       FURNAS ranks among the best-managed power companies in Brazil.  It
is governed by a full-time six-member Board of Directors. In June 1984,
FURNAS' staff was about 9,100 employees, which is adequate for its service
requirements. FURNAS has satisfactory financial planning, budgeting,
accounting and reporting systems. FURNAS maintains five training centers
with facilities and programs that are regarded among the best in Brazil.
Future training needs are being addressed through the proposed project
(para. 61).
CHESF's and FURNAS' Finances
69.       The circumstances in which the finances of the power sector have
developed since the late 1970s (para. 50) have also derermined the financial
performance of the two beneficiaries.
70.       Since 1981, CHESF's rate of remuneration has fallen from 7.3% in
1981 to 3.2% in 1983. A rate of remuneration of 3.3% is es imated in 1984.
In this period, contribution to investment was negative except in 1983 when
4% was achieved. Debt equity ratio was maintained at reasonable levels,
ranging from 70/30 in 1981 to an estimated 60/40 in 1984, due to equity
contributions from ELETROBRAS. In the 1981-1984 period FURNAS' rate of
remuneration has fallen from 10.4% in 1981 to 6.7% in 1983. A rate of
remuneration of 5.0% is estimpted in 1984. In the same period contribution
to investment was negative. The debt equity ,atio was maintained at about
70/30 for most of the period.
71.       In 1970, FURNAS began to construct the Angra I nuclear plant, and
in 1977 and 1982 it started Angra II and Angra III, which were subsequently
assigned to NUJCLEBRAS. NUCLEBRAS is to complete construction and
subsequently transfer the plants to FURNAS for operation. The construction
of Angra I has taken longer than expected; the plant is currently being
tested for commissioning and its commercial operation is expected in 1985.
Coimercial operation of Angra II and III is scheduled for 1990 and 1991.
Construction costs of Angra I were higher than expected mainly due to
technical problems. These higher costs, together with the power sector
financial difficulties of the late 1970s and early 1980s, have contributed to
the financial strains experienced by FURNAS.  Compensation to FURNAS for the
financial implications of the nuclear plants is being addressed by the
sectoral financial rehabilitation measures included in the 1984-1988 Sectoral
Financial Plan.
72.       In addition to the sector agreements discussed in para. 54, which
would benefit all the utilities of the sector, agreements were reached
during negotiations to ensure that the financial performance of the
beneficiaries would be satisfactory. For this purpose, the provisions of
past Bank agreements relative to loans to the Brazilian power sector, dealing
with Government approval of the investment programs of the two beneficiaries.
and of the provision of adequate finances for these investment programs; with
annual reviews by the Bank of the investment programs and financial plans of
the two beneficiaries; have been repeated in the legal documents of the
proposed loan (Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement, Sections 4.02
and 4.03, of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, the Bank agreed with CHESF and
FURNAS on other standard managerial and financial provisions of Bank loans to
Brazilian power sector companies (Articles ill and IV of the draft Project
Agreements), and the agreements of 1981 and 1983 between the Federal
Government and the Bank on tariffs and rate of remuneration targets will also



- 24 -
apply to these beneficiaries (para. 50, and Section 3.05 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
73.       Provided that the sectoral financial rehabilitation measures are
inplemented, both beneficiaries would be able to carry out their projects in
a satisfactory and timely fashion. CHESF's financial projections show a
progressive improvement in operating results and cash generation; however,
substantial equity contributions will continue to be required from ELETROBRAS
until 1988. FURNASI financial projections also show a progressive
improvement in operating results and cash flow performance.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
74.       The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
is estimated at US$685.0 million, of which US$349.0 million (or about 51%) is
the foreign exchange couponent. Interest during construction and other
financial charges on the Bank loan amount to about US$88 million. These
costs were estimated on the basis of detailed designs and couprehensive bills
of materials and equipment utilizing price levels prevailing in December
1984. Costs include taxes and import duties of about 10% of the base costs.
Physical contingencies were calculated at about IOZ of the base costs, and
price contingencies were calculated using the following annual escalation
rates applied to the base costs and physical contingencies: 5% for 1985; 7.5%
for 1986; 8% for 1987-1990; and 5% for 1991 and 1992. This is based on the
assunption that the Cruzeiro would be devalued in accordance to the
differential between domestic inflation and international inflation.
75.       The proposed Bank loan of US$400.0 million, (US$113.2 million for
CHESF and US$2B6.8 million for FLM'NAS) would cover 52% of the total project
financing requirements. The balance of 48% would be financed from the
internal resources of the beneficiaries and from capital contributions and
borrowings. To assist the Government and the sector authorities in their
efforts to improve the financial condition of the sector during a period of
very stringent financial constraints, the Bank would finance interest due on
the Bank loan during the first four and half years of project construction.
By the end of the decade Brazil's balance of payments condition would have
improved substantially and the deteriorating trend of the sector's finances
is expected to have been reversed. The interest during construction to be
financed by the loan is estimated at US$80.5 millon.
Execution of the Project
76.       The beneficiaries have the capacity for carrying out engineering
and construction supervision with their existing staff. Construction works
would be carried out simultaneously in several states. Installation of
smaller works would be carried out by force account. Both installation of
equipment aud construction works would be under the supervision of the
corresponding construction departments of CHESF and FURNAS. Procurement,
manufacturing, installation and construction of the different works included
in the project are expected to be carried out during the period May 1985-
December 1990. The cloeing date of the loan would be December 31, 1991.
Agreement was reached during negotiations on performance indicators that have
been established to monitor CHESF and FURNAS operational, financial and
managerial performance (Articles III and IV and Schedule I of the draft
Project Agreements). With the above arrangements, it is expected that the
project will be satisfactorily completed on schedule.



- 25 -
Procurement
77.       Equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank loan, would be
procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance to Bank guidelines. Limited international bidding (LIB) in
accordance to Bank guidelines, would be appropriate for contracts exclusively
related to the purchase of training and laboratory equipment to be financed
by the Bank loan (each contract not to exceed US$200,000 and the total
estimated not to exceed US$1,000,000 for each beneficiary). Training experts
would be contracted in accordance to Bank procedures. For contracts to be
financed with proceeds of the Bank loan, local bids which contain value added
of Brazilian manufacturers equal to at least 50% of the ex-factory price,
will be given a margin of preference equivalent of 15%, or the applicable
import duties, whichever is lower.
78.       Equipment and materials to be financed by CHESF's and FURNAS' own
resources would be procured under the normal procedures of the beneficiaries
which are satisfactory (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). It is
estimated that about US$310.0 million equivalent of equipment and materials
to be financed under the proposed loan would be acquired through ICB. It i
estimated that less than 50% of the value of the contracts placed after ICB
will be awarded to Branilian suppliers.
Disbursements
79.       The proposed Bank loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of
seven years. Proceeds from the proposed Bank loan would be applied to the
payment of the following expenditures, which should be submitted to the Bank
fully documented:
(a) 1OO% of foreign expenditures for imported goods, or 100% of the
ex-factory cost for local goods purchased through Bank ICB and
LIB procedures;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for scholarships and their related
expenditures;
(c) IDOO of expenditures for contracting training experts; and
(d) Interest and other charges on the Bank loan during four and
one-half years of the construction period.
To reduce the interval during which both CHESF and FURNAS would finance with
their own resources items, which are to be financed by the Bank loan, a
Special Account in the amount of US$10.0 million representing four months of
average expenditures would be opened at the Central Bank for payments to
local suppliers (Scheduile 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits
80.       The selection of the proposed transmission line configurations
(voltage level, structures, conductor sizes, span lengths and routing) was
based on economic comparison with other possible configurations. In each
particular case, both CHESF and FURNAS, have selected the alternative with
the lowest present worth value (least cost solution) at a discount rate of



- 26 -
Procurement Arran8ements
Eatiuated Cost in US$ Million
Procurement Method
Other
ICB      RP    F.A.  L.I.B     DP   Total Cost
CHESF
-Substation Equipment and       52.8      3.2    -      -       -        56.0
Materials                   (42.7)                                    42.7
-Transmission lines Equipment   67.8      -      -      -       -        67.8
and Materials               (42.2)                                   (42.2)
-Construction works               -      61.6    -      -       -        61.6
-Engineering and                  -       -    33.4    -        -        33.4
Administration
-Training                         -       -      1.4   1.1     4.4        6.9
(1.1)   (4.4)      (5.5)
Sub-total                   120.6    64.8  -31T8   1.1      4.4      225.7
(84.9)     _          (1.1)   (4.4)     (90.4)
FURNAS
-Substation Equipment and      159.4    10.6    -       -       -       170.0
Materials                  (139.2)                                  (139.2)
-Transmission lines Equipment  145.7      -      -      -       -       145.7
axd Materials               (84.4)     -     -      _        _       (84.4)
-Construction Works               -     76.6    -       -       -        76.6
-Engineering and                  -       -    59.8    -        -        59.8
Administration
-Training                         -       -      1.4   1.1      4.4       6.9
(1.1)    (4.4)     (5.5)
Sub-total                   38 872   61.2   1.1            47T      459,0
(223.6)    -      -    (1.1)    (4.4)   (229.1)
Total Project                  425.7   152.0   96.0   2.2       8.8     684.7
(308.5)    (-)   (-)  (2.2)    (8.8)   (319.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are items to be financed by Bank loan.
R.P. - Reserved Procurement
F.A. - Force Account (to be supplied through beneficiaries
manpover and/or resources).
LIE - Limited International Bidding, applicable only to training/
laboratory equipment included in. CHESF's and FURNAS' training
program.
D.P. - Direct purchase, applicable only to items to be purchased
directly (Scholarships, fees for foreign training specialists,
training related foreign expenses).



- 27 -
11%, assumed to be the opportunity cost of capital in Brazil. Furthermore,
substation capacities (power transformers, capacitors, reactors) and their
lay-outs have been established to minimize investment and operational costs
over the facility's useful life, with due consideration both to substation
load requirements and to applicable technical standards currently being used
in the sector.
81.       As costs and benefits of the subprojects cannot be segregated from
those of the investment programs of the beneficiaries, the economic rates of
return were calculated on the entire investment programs of the
beneficiaries. They are 11% for each program. These rates were obtained
utilizing average retail levels at December 1984 and adding thereafter real
tariff increases required to attain the rate of remuneration levels agreed
between the Brazilian Government and the Bark on November 1983. In case that
revenues will be 10% less than forecast, the rates of return would drop to
about 92 and in case that capital costs will be 10% higher than estimated,
the rates of return would drop to about 10%. CHESF and FURNAS transmission
projects would contribute substantially: (i) to meet the power market needs
especially in the highly industrialized cities located in the Southeast and
Northeast Systems; (ii) to transfer the electricity generated at Itaipu
hydroelectric plant to the main centers of the Southeast system; (iii) to
achieve higher system efficiency by reinforcing CHESF and FURNAS transmission
networks; and (iv) to bolster managerial and administrative capabilities
through training programs.
Risks
82.       The project faces no special physical risks. ELETROBRAS, CRESF and
FURNAS have been adversely affected by the financial problems of the power
sector. These problems are being addressed through a number of measures
agreed between the Government and the Bank that will progressively improve
the financial condition of the power sector (para. 54).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project
Agreements between Companhia Ridro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF) and the
Bank, and Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A. (FURNAS) and the Bank, the draft
Supplemental Letters on the Revenues of the beneficiaries (similar to that
approved by the Executive Directors on May 11, 1982 in the context of the
loan to ELETROBRAS Power Distribution Project) and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
84.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Conditions of effectivenes would be (a) the presentation to
the Bank of a satisfactory 1984/88 sectoral investment program and financial
plan formally approved by the Government; and (b) the execution by the
Borrower of subsidiary Loan Agreements with the two beneficiaries in terms
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 28 -
85.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOkMENDATION
86.       I recommead that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
1May 15, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-29-                                           AN= I
Pate 1 of 6
UfZIL                  - SOCIL I-IrATOS   ATA SIUT
WaSILL                                  unc Cmi (SIICSI AVSIACEU) Is
M                    CT mS: RECUT uSTIATZc  
sMMi:           DILus XInCu           nIbBLE
Iffot.    zgyob        rTn'A mar              CA.   & CAR
Mu (TUU*  sU- -)                                    -
rWaL                              Sizo0        asU.0       8512.0
AGRICULTURAL                      13.4         101.2       2352.7
C-   a  Can (no)                      330.0   1 40.0         2240.0            2100.4                    2345.3
mNON cmeanm a cnnm
CKILOUAIS OF OIL WIVALNT)          264.0        412.0      740.0             95.5                     1122.8
NUOLSM -N VITAL EMOINnS=
POPULATI0N.*NIbTtAR (TNOUSU)  72594.0        95847.0   12680..0
URUA IPOPUILATION CZ Or TOAL)       44.9         55.3       41.8              46.5                      44.8
POPULATION PfbJECTbfhl
POPUATIOCN IN WM 20s (NILL)                               Le.
4                         STATIONARY POPULTION (HILL)                                 3.4                 .
POPUATIH   ET                                              1.8.
POPULATION DITSY?
FM SQ. m.                          8.3         11.3        14.4             35.7                      82.9
PER SQ. M. AGR. LA               44.4        48.4        52.7              92.4                     156.9
FOPUATIOM ACE STUCTUME (2)
U1-  ARs                         43.6         42.7       40.9              39.9                      31.4
15-64 IRS                         53.4         54.3       55.4              54.0                      61.1
65MUADOE                           2.4          3.1        3.5               4.t                       7.1
POPUIATION CRTH RSATZE (2)
TOTAL                              3.1          2.3        2.3               2.4                       1.4
URUM                               5.7          5.0        4.1               3.4                       3.7
tllGIE  11T1 RATE (CR TWUS)          2..         35.0       31.2              31.3                      23.4
CRUDE WAT RATE (PER TIOM)           12.9         10.3        6.1               3.1                       6.3
GROSS RPoDUCTbON RATE                3.0 o.4                 1.9               2.0                       1.4
FMILY FIRANING
ACCEPTORS. AAML (T S)               ..        111.0      203.461
UERS (Z or HARE  MoSm)              ..          ..          ..              40.3
POWAND moa i
INDEX OF F0D PRD. PER CWITA
(196-71-100)                        39.0        102.0      L33.0             114.3                     114.5
PE CAPITA SPILT OF
CALOIES (2 OF  EQUIRS)           104.0        104.0      107.0             110.4                     123.6
PRTEINS (CUms  MS Dat)            4.0         62.0        60.0              47.3                     89.7
OF IICSi ANIMIL AsND PULS       35.0         34.0       34.0 /d           34.1                      34.5
CHUID (AS  1-4) DEA  RATC           19.4         12.5        8.0               5.7                       5.2
LIFE MXPECr. AT SITE (TEaS)         54.7        56.9        63.3              64.7                      47.4
INWaY hOST. tArT (PER IN=S)        118.2        0.B         73.4              40.6                     Se 2
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (201)
rL                                  ..         55.0       77.1 Is           65.4
URBAN                               ..       7n.0          a. 7;            78.1
RURAL                               ..         23.0       56.3              46.2
ACCESS TO ECETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         58.0       44.8 /a           52.9
UR1S                                ..        85.0        33.77;            *7.0
ERURAL                                                      ..         24.0       31.7 r            24.5
POPOLATION PU MPSICI              2210.0       2130.0         ..            1917.7                    1045.8
POP. PEA lZIlSIUC PERSON          2310.0       1120.0         -.              15.3                     764.4
POP. PE HOSPITIAL ED
TOrAL                            310.0        270.0      250.0 to          367.2                     326.3
-  URBAN                         250.0       320.0          ..             411.5                     201.5
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..            263.3
ADKISSIONS P  HOSITAL RED             .-           .4         ..              27.3                      20.0
OCSI
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHL
TOTAL                              S.1          4.3        4.91 
URB.                                           4.6         4. 7 ,.-
ma                                  ..          5.2        5.3.
AvERA  nO. or PzRsons/RO
TOTAL                               ..          1.1
URBAN                              ..           1.0
RURaL                              ..           1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF  UELMICS)
TOTAL                             38.7         47.6        7..4
11S                                ..          7.S.4        .5                .
RURAL                               ..         8.4        20..



- 30
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
DIll.L                  - WU         >                 CIKIm  AEOU 
_ou               s   tIMM    AVIU ) L-
HOm                 (MOST 88026  ESIAI
Ina&       ama.    t       USI TAT.   N            CUG        HIDER
n1A*       TOM                     95.0          4.0        g.0              105.4                     101.1
HI                      91.0    U     4.O        92.0 i           106.3                     105.5
_ rALK                  93.0         94.0        2.0              104.5                      9.7
SUsOMI i TOTAL                     11.0         26.0        32.0              43.2                      59. I
#ALK                    11.0         26.0       2".0  1            4.3                       ".9
IUIAU                   10.0         27.0        35.0              44.5                      50.6
VOCSATIONL CX 0   tCMMXT)            15.6         16.7        59.2 A            23.4                      21.6
PUfIL-0ACiE RATIO
nPDI                               33.0         26.0        26. 2I 30.1                                 23.1
auCaumaw                           13.0         13.0        14.0  t           16.5                      20.9
ADULT Lr1UACT 31  CZ)               61.0          66.2        76.0       /t 79.5                          75.6
MAIIUER CARM/SO1UUAND PO             7.6         1.A         48.9             46.0                       54.7
RoAo NcVMIluUD   101                65.4        1o0.4        165.1             225.6                     164.9
TV 33C311103uO         MP            16.5         44.3       119.7             107.2                     123.6
35143  ("NALY sI  RM.
INIUf82) CIRCULATIN
P3  TSUIID P1OULATION              52.9         35.6        44.0              63.5                      96.3
CIUID. ANNUL ATTNl/CAI               4.6           2.0         1.1 /             2.0                       2.9
1OU*L  uAaM 1m  Ct(OS)           23326.0       30611.0    40365.0
INALs (I33,5ff)                    17.2         20.1        23.2              23.2                      34.3
AGaIMTURR (PCURN)                  51.9        45.6        29.9               31.5                      40.7
XIDUStIT (188c033)                14.i         18.U        24.4              23.9                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (MrCENT)
TOTAL                              32.1         31.7        31.8              32.2                      42.9
ml:!                               52.7          0.3        48.9              49.3                      54.7
VUIZ                               11.2         12.         14.8              15.2                      31.0
3B00211C Z1RNDCT 3T110D              1.4           1.4         1.4               1.4                       0.9
Of331 01 RIAT  INCOMS
3303113 3?
KIMSKS 51 01P NUlZOLDS                                      6
ImlZOHT 20 01 08L35                60.0         63.5        62.0.
LOWElT 20X OF 0   ID40              3.8          3.2         2..
LOWES 402 0f  USIOLSI              10.6          9.0         9.4
3STIT3D ARIOLIU POVZ1  INCU
LZL (0S5 P3E  CAPI)
03343                                ..          ..          ..              28. 2
RURAL                               ..           ..        150.0 I           164.0
USTD1^8D RLTUXV  PtZRI  rW
133?L CUSS PER CAPITA)
mutAx                               ..           .,         65.0            522.8
DL.                                  ..          ..       332.0 it          372.4
Z111ATC1. PO. 31101 ARSOI.T3
101!r INCUms LEVEL CI)
allAN                      ........
tOA                                  ........
NOT AVAlIT                                  -
MUr APPLICAIL
N 0T Z S
j_  Thu snp avrea for eech ladieator are popu1tteioeluhbted artlmtlc sem. Coverae of countria. among the
IndieAters dmpnd. an averlaMbity of data ei 1m not unXfot.
/b   Unlae otbatLrw. noted. "lebt for 1960" refer to any yar betm  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betuma  1969 and
1971 and  data far "Met Incent  lutimte. bet_aia 190 eO d 1932.
k7 195;Id977; .A  1976; L/f 1979; LL Uelanlag 1973 prImary .d          u     edactia  cover gpe uups 7-14 and 15-17
5tare f 7-10 and U-17In ear2i years  heretrte, meot recent estl:ate are not comparble with earlier data;
/A 1976.
JR,  1964



MW    _NIpt-a  aMP-
M 3.  A.i.i1 To  s9 -"-    P5-13   _l 30MN"-9-41J- emb S
-Nw--  9.41*3, Mg             5  1 /39 -a
j.  V- .~-'s.   * -14      Sx    n -m  mwma .4  91 .    1MI- 
ga* 5M3:c -0  -    aN-9  5c9*3            M 999 n   3993  1 
*39s        93 -0  *1-    33*       193391"      M -1 -. 4-a
913r 3oo? wNN flail I951 1      -11 * 9               .~
.-49    0959  J- MN-   1*-  - *331115 13 .113119*31
.*.-      33  13)3999   31*534*3593119l993   *35931 0-   1MU M                                                          93.559*5   -- A 9394    .- *3
- I.'. a- 3949(93(1) 44  31533939  019)3319.4 ..193p0199193                         "      f -P 19-v - (399- .3-u999(   13 933mm
X 9*3*35P.                                                                           - S     --
-       *3 -n *3*.151 3-My -M3M *    3 M"  39 "-T 3941*135                          PMi  J.9 SAild M919 1M W     01. *IJ                          1
919019 oat Paa"l so-H&I 1415*3*3 P33*309191
*3 *31*..1  .3.3 Mg. 399. -  13m   A_  W49 _31*3119119119119L9La 0.3953 *                                  d 91l5 M 99  -9 J19U  P4 3. 3  *9  -   -  395*31
*3 3*3. a"9 At49 0 * 1*3 Mining -5. M;n19aa
-S,   -T.: In                                                                __1 7A~99~   939.5M 993193 =99 M113333   9.3-19*    93
UBauSSSi                               *1993~~~~--  9991 *3 0193 (9-11013 31.39  91-m-9  M.
aa5a9-a el 33*3391 P- %ll9105 J. 313199-*
91   - 3to 19 *3    -r 339939191.3 3. --3  -  W        _"*mm                             I          339*9 a            - I9*3 =9  A., pa3933    -    3119
193   *939, 1   931    9                           9119-   39393q1.31-19 915      -I               PM&.1-.  3  91 P-193599
9 1-a0   -%9  W." 19- .-I*93399 M0   M --1   - 3. 9.A9        - l"i3.31995.            9-M-   p193 11933 MM-   alpfift99a-  *U*93  3IMV P. *91.31
MM"N          pi"91943  axis     * - P -M    -up *19  3oa1 319 I4j9  offi3                  I"9 3319    .91* 153)1-   -jft     99l-   Mpm1*
m4393109   01t 119 3.319. -"       933  *3 -9  3919  3.  M1993                         35919          *~9919l ~             3.3    399113
459 *1 9  31.3419   -319 11 099193adM.39         pai *3 5139411! 31                       M1 L9v-  9- 3. 3931"*355 9105*3f  It3933  15* MI P- -J
*33u.113    91910   399-309 93-v   1.39 "' 13   j33U                  1                  19  91999111  939- *'n91930  "     p 09109(5333   11*3319   --
--P 3193 *- "'99 *993   -195 4999  Inn11 J.   135   - J3.95                        93   9*41913        392-13339-  91* 4"-         49-1  99993 *3 r-  9
*3  n. 33111     - *4 V39.1l  *3 .15 93311 439-91 "-2                             *3p 399M9    T        M."9139I     *1n93-31   MM11  5991139591
*959  4991l 9 wa.  3.9"1-99 0M  -J1919M195~                   M=13  1195j19.*` j:93   M1*.15999 = _ (43-aplt-e193  "Vam 3    F.3591994   95   .
--v3 3391 *3-9   4193 193933                                                                                   11511*3
-   31999-w 0-3. I-                                       MWA3   3~If*-3..
famp"N"              31  1333993P991 P-1  *119 .31                               3.  3- 3 .9all-- I                               3       -NaAn-
5919901 3 19    MN sm.  0  9131191.99-3131-d139139993-19339                                                                                            *("19m1",-    waw..1-M      1
01 -9 .39-  -*_ 391909*013P3M199  3                                              15*30  9-3ONdid199*3  1313. 
3*35391 *  0939553.3931119133 03 11*33*  191-11911111-                                          09g35-   s.
19991*- 399139-3. 5           I-api .35993 a    1B5   3313939. -399`5 `39359                                                   P- 3 -  3  3 3    1-19
M C-35   F- IM   Proal"I".               99a1 0     11I3.3   9911114933  3303    "V Is"5-                               39
-apin  fts          4-8-N Lbil --I,% ~ ~ ~ *3*O*l 093  3939359
93 09339199 3.-09 39115 - )~-W-*-u*3-=--183-)-DP11:ji                                                                   A.,9 MM9   951*3
3*3119111934.9-1959 30941*3- -   Ali 3599                       15159.5  19319ai513113*4  1                    PM19  193311-419-  59-
*31.139    *30   -        --4~ I9 0519  99311139t 9439391d                 M%.   3.p-,   599   A95*3599,                    Jr9     33313 .310
.191.319 =594  3399419  . 9919 359  119! 1 3913593.99                                     99   M-13153*331115 M aN              91399an   3.-fa95 3M *3  931.
-43.19.3     . 11.5991  -it9-103   -   Man 5 *   "WA9 3999   303   1199119           -9  913aN 93 191393051339    di-Man.111309       .99191 5 MAN33-
0aW    3199-AM19        - 991435.3499-`1-_ -91 193P-53.M3'-1 91 1391911  *                                  333    3930    _9911  3-W 991 91 91-1 P3-
a             A.'""93      *  331J 399    3*91933                                911 *3  11*1 onpa.4gid  1 M" ) 91191941 0a  *3N M19   '3* 9I3.-
1 . 03    -9  p-R3p9*  *33 93 A3-   W"9  ----S 3333399
An-=         M3,9 I *3 119939 M 91a33pag s9. 111u99  31 "li39mp3-
.4*33333.19  033l93= 39.95 *3 `*3911'".9319939 1195M"                               03a.M 9999     49310.3* 1 599353993l aqN  -9433
- 19555 *3  3995  19993 - (5193   59      34  33 91                       a3 9.411    0911 09*1191M 91"I9 99 41395ft`9 "I33 51      -3993R9
P-            N-PW9913*530    M-93  0911*3  .493.3=1-M3  *33399 3939                        491311" v- 193191143343v- -  P*3  0b                       99M
53. ~    ~      ~      *         M     -alglm-a"    1m                  Ni; gw;
~~      ~            ~                  ........49~~~M           19931*.-99  333Ml5 r-1905349 -f.                           Ia-
9939.53 33319991195399339M                                                    P99 3M 3*    (3913395-
.3I Pon-$939  *3 419Am    41943,*.1 11 Mv09*3v  *93*3 9*3N 1391  *3                        999p P. Am99441   .95   3*1                 3   3      :
61311193  199*3319-..59an1-*399995<.l W41031U19-g                                                                                    9113 3193 *3  uuailS.  -al"  v
p-     ;;'Maimem a133393  3399339 3.0.n3 99111  3 -393,393.                            --o3 93    ma 4 . *9939  )li  3N. 931333 93O (4114393  311913 d*
*3  931p   -0   19913.91l 11d Am 30  (3j9p   31539911d an* NM *3-9IP39                5193  3p-35 *3 1  93-9919 19919391  *31315          wld        ~         N
3133  4 '1.9  3999915 5:9 53.19ft   pa% -194.3.     3 91-,* -99*                        3919a.p19a3   990    13
399_ Al913*3*95d   951903w 3919353.3153   **39319  *3 ag"9ln919                                                                              b    -  01 e
393*30 43394119145 33-935155 930I99399919  *1911-3115 *n 539M1 33 59                                                                    393-9 3193*3393309
33.39 139.da3  9j39*393 -9t119  *3 -991559  PM999393139                                3391*3(093193)   11_ 3393 Ml9 -  19W 09931 39)9393(31309
1995331-3. 591I- 41 35193  93190 M3-3*33J                                                                                                       3 Ift9-nM -  1    t     O-     M     -a     W-ap     J   S-15vl    1
NN.   f 1aag"I93  "r 51399931  39  939 p p99*3   llL09fl30- M   pig,  MOW  pff        93g 311919MdW *3  -11 *1  .1931M 3333*3  -.9*14W  3P 9
A9131.3d 5 Afi.a 519*  W41*13  1990930"5     !          ,P.       twm    j            =      Wga-Paa. * U3IW WwI3, 109
*3 433999199-  93991. 9191591*3 51939 11  33.391315  393539 4993 *3ble mom3319"mm9 MI 99919939  -199519993   339113*33
913919*39 -goa9g,1953*   3*   393  13033   93   *5933539 "W                                9339-9 3  0103913*39-                            Nig3539141919*3n
393 "ana.4w  AM3 A13        ns91 mm1  P3 53 M 033   .." 493*3439 -.ws.P     n      e-930935   39*31   19319313 91933-99MM9 9139199550.P 9591- 3      331333
391919391aged3 0I9 130  9  9*   )9                                    I *   933 919  19   13U  1**33M99.39319-    33, 15ll                          .3-93*
I X3NNV                                                                          -c



32 -
AMUX I
nun. - Bmar   -NA                                                         lag. 4 of 
136 NiLIHo at                                                   AML 0001 -mt  (l)
Indicator                    iusp-                            Acuarojaected
197     1980    1981       IM         l9UV-   191St        19W       398       198      -q       1Ag9       1
motiml 
&ammsmtIc PtO&CLe            39.80          5.6      7.2     -1.I       0.9      -3.2      4.5           4.3       5.4      6.2       6.7       7.1       7.3
*Lodahb                     23,756         L7      6.2      6.4      -L.5        22      3.9           3.0       4.0       4.0      4.0       4.5       4.5
IU&nw                61419          5.3     7.9    -3.2        0.8       -6.8     5.8           5.7       7.0      8L0       9.0       9.0       9.1
Binvii                     19'            2.3      7.3    0.41        1.7       -L.5     3.7           3.5       4.5       52       5.5       6.1       6.4
~aq.At1m                     167,80         8.4      3.5      0.2       3.3      -LO       2.6           7.1       3.3      5.3       7.1       7.6      7.7
qkom 1zw..mattb              37,974        -7.0    1IL1    -1mg,    -4.2        -17.5      4.5           4.3      17.1      U.        6.7       7.1      7.3
Z of et WS                23,62         ILA      2.7      3.9      -6.4       13.6     0.0           -4.5      6.6       4.6       5.3      5.3       5.9
Imponsea f GWS               19,194        -9.6      LO    -13.4       -5.2     -17.2    17.3           3.4       12.6      9.4       8.2       9.0     .9.2
%nm. Nazoui Swdr              2D.043        -6.4    11.6   -16.6    -10.6        -3.4     3.6           -0.7      26.5      IL4       8.4       7.5       7.3
Mrms
cw vam   (19)0-))                          Ms      2,955    5,864    11,480     2,.21   v,.W
mmm      (m.~=Sffl1S                 8.1    52.       93.1     179.5     577.0  1t846.9
Simm  of mE a ~t    M   Pfm  (2)                        Ami  mma 1n.ae  CZ)
(At OA== Mml)                                      (At am*" 1970 ftm)
1975      198D     1910/&    199W/                       1975-      MM1.1    now
(Cms  .Dome PO&MC                   100.0    100.0     10.0    100.                             .3       (L8       L6.
~Az1ws]                             9.2     ILO        6.3       7.5                          9.5       2.2      4.2
Ylmny-                             3LI      3.8S      31.9      3468                          4.6     -0.3       8.5
Sevimn                             43.6     44.8      43.9      4L-9                          7.6      1.3       5.6
rowmpim                              76.6     81.3      74.7      73.5                         7.7      -Ls        6.4
(km.n tmmemm/b                      23.3      21.1      18.0      21.0                          2.8     -4.2       9.4
1      aSS                           7.5       8.8      13.       12.                          6.4      14.5       5.2
7qoe GMS                             ILA      11.2       6.2      7.2                         -1.3      -Ls8       9.4
Cca  Nhatial S.vjrW                  31       16.       16.4      21.9                        -1-6      -4.5      11.
As of 2 of MP
(At omxmt (kmlmm M                                                                et)
F1ibU   NTMM (CMz. COMM)                               I970    1975    1979   1980/  1981P   L982
cbe    m.                                              16.6    19.8    3.8    2D.1    18.9   21.2
_____ipenf                                             14.4     15.    17.6   19.8   20.2    25.4
ozlu{)r 1ftdz(-                                    2.2     4.0      3.2    0.3   -L.4    4.2
agiba zwawIt-                                           2.6      3.8     3.7    4.1    3.5    3.4
1Lo.q oUst                                              0.4    -0.2      0.5    3.9     kg9    7.6
0th  Iinneb                     1975-UD  1980D.8195 
GN w(kdlta oe(Z)                  7.0     065      6.9
OWP ve apfra Qwd gat (C)          3.0    -1.9     4.5
b1mW Caqomvi- 0d   Nate CZ)    6.5        -       -
mm                                3.3     367     3.1
IbW-m  swiw Rat                   0.0     0.i    0.3
Iqiac- mt 3Ud                    -0.2    -2.4    1L4
/a At =Oka pic; mmm  an  -   d at f              cmt   'didno a dd6m to ecw3wm oE e,-Km  tems  modsbmaih..
l/  1975-0  -.r       fe      l Wm  lA mm=  md-ns for wAdequ  yt ez for ffAlm1 i     with dMUM la .id. -1-1-, In =eoaatjo.
/c Pz                                                        VUt I7ls t   p1D m.
Md Pmnmem~y.
/f Z19,-052 -L6     0 .9 aymfm caciti e4w*                      biga  -a dau6 mAw.2ll 6                          t m  a f7.1i 7,m      .
April 30, 1985



33
5   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                     33    ~~~~~~~~~~~~  r "~~~~~~~Pg 5 of 6-
uAZIr. - mUU*L 7RADE /d
1W ~I1ian   t                                       Anul 4u,h Ro  M - (a cit 1970 pd=*)
0wt   kfu          _     _          ____                                   _____
Indicator                   (1913)                             Actual                                                  pro3actod
19s75    1967    1961      isu       1565    ISSIo      116      1        190       196       Igo     1960
matml TM.
I-rdWM  Lpact                 21.=           2.9     21as      9.9      -3.0      D.5      2L1        .4.5      4.6       4.6       5.3       5.3     6.0
ftg,/a                       8,9(0           0 J       4     46.8    -10.1       14.3      9.0      -13        4.2       4.2       4.4      4.5      4i7
HductucYs./b                 A0.873         0.0    2Z.5       0.6       7.4       35        8        -7.0      5.0       3.0       6.0       6.0      7.0
NK&AAmme 1     a              1,a           -15o      1.4               - -3      159        1        14        1L6       9.4       Lz        9.0      9.2
rand *4Ommw Q                1,60            .        2    -54.8      -1.2       -.      112.0       7.6       3.1      5.3       7.3       7.8      LO
pettolm                     8,607          -3.8    -9.8    -0.0       -.6      -IQ6    -13L0        0.9        Li       L3       -L6        5.9      6.1
Ihdany M_ qmimc              1.8 5          9.8     6.4    -49       -3L2       -130      35.       23.9      2.7       13.J8      .1        .5      La
outlm                        3.27         -306     -LZ       3.8    -l3         -3        2L9       2L5        9.8       9.0     101       10.2     10.3
aqmrt  kfim rcm 1176                                  210       22        m5       192       11w7               2 1D      238       251               m
Iapact Pdm 1:d                               ii2      431       74    57           493       36        3         31        i        36       3S  45
cfl'dTramaIzim                                72       6I        53       43        39        57        62       66        Go        10        71      71
0Gqzmlt@m dt Ihzdmdlain Wd (Z)                            I      Aura I.,,e CZ)
(at a twz  hid)                                     (Mt a       190 pal)
11i15-rn  1R"    ims.o
EVOM                                mm10      1100     10        XLO                            5.8     IL0        5.1
P_Q71!P                            627      4.8       46.2     4W5                            Li       8.6       4.4
a chl                              37.3     3L2       53.8      55.5                         II.2 Ia   2.2       5.8
Iquta                               CO M.        O     100.0 1o0 lOO                           -4       -7         9.
Fond  l           C om              9.8     ILI       17        13.3                         17.5    -4.5        6.4
Pet_a                              2LA       46.4      15        6.1                          4.3     -7.3       2.
kddarny .m Edpint                   3.5      154      2a8       33.0                         -7.5      -3.       11.9
Odwfm                             X3.3       mL1      67.0      47.6                         -L9       8.1       9.8
Sm  of nda qd&               fluoe ii huh              SUR o      I adda e ipl
Dha Gtsiat c us C 1Z)15    160    19 1          CZ)  s 83  1Wl  1d)   1163
Flpatta                        60.2    57.3    6.3           35      2a5    2.            0.8      LI    72Z
1WW-             <67.3    4f.6   7L.5                        8.7    1M0    17.4          1.      14.1   19.3
/a  or  e pek1d 198t-1990. Pdt_ty Pndv   lnci W-pinad pO& pdm I=  ,u.
Fb Fer  pefriod 197519eD. m_    Dnm  ia_lU& otbat 1pd
Z P*ldmy.
Tlhe q     t al lia  pnuacur am adalawas fifm":
Sq,I 0a PWJ&!bm 'em s   for Uth ojaw wiibal             L t- aifm. _11,  _    pml, ad an-r  WMu    fr km   am m1
_zfecn.a. I"1PVDCO           Ml tnr SBd.. 9dUm fw #zim1mw  a1       UdAi  dml    VD _ pzoaelm. Meo            1mma, in agtim!uj i     Is
to be aladely -d.atd  -fte. m,   ml x  waft  at 1l  Om  3X pwtya  tr mt of the paerd wd  SI.  ma Sauda  at 52 Smm
aMan WZud MP  a= We.        to dcISa 1in 1M5 ml In'    imOm 5 -7 pe r yewIb an 19660 a            _    e        Un -t of de
a. 19m     d za ny          19 S. -ajtins gau. 1ddd    t of        _        m  'i t pxaI    W ap  d to folio Ure gtmLta af _Baarod
pzOthC  EDUer 6- M nsra1            in. d     fw ampdmr' indItia   m    u    to folio di h1temtnl prim _1d- (M).
N- 1985 AU fnPint tY Po    et PgUi   a   mlJ1y     AmL  Owotb af foW _ I                                gm& in ha_ed to gm    in
pzat   aPtdon;    MEa  md mtal Pnv%Mz. OD F  P011; fcdmlaun. to 1wluAural  i    gcutbh  OW IOAM                  gad. to izal    -cal  r
gnmth; mlWtgal goad% to f                 21. gamt h I    d  tc acnL c tm s *a f*aca  of UP gauth. Ilce aL pzc&mn I1 eSUm   to
1ne 53D,COW Itpd fn 19S5 to 600.000 ,t i O 19113, e at dmt levl untl I9. on - am iacte u mameio inatdml.
Pa q C&=al   1dtm. fO, food oI I - IntmumUiagm  goiad.m  a'eltaa waft  -v alda U. IP-at about 6-7Z pgwym    O 3W   )ta pamm  u5tb
MD'S _-ta md l   ezia pd,e I-kF  sdda lummue aba  te          - _    MI ad fium  pvlem, 'dLtUh tU  pO td ptam loft   blAd  inew -  am tdae
IL
April 30, 1985



-3-
PeeSm 123.7 Eaulia  (114I.I
Mr I fq4C*tea 60111.990 (1953
Lo3        90        11         196       2953       2954 JIt   ISM       1          1947      29w        19ow      29g
1Met inert. wE t.&l .d 11vettee'    4,302   -122.54    -11,193   ..24.747    '4.250         452    .3,54      -1.35      21.393       -779     '-351       4346
3Emprrw of Ceede                   5.7       20,232    13.313    3.175       21,59     27,005    25,70       39,152    34,175    356979    44.454    51.195
Iqnm of owds                      1275 we ts.  nnoln               1,29.3     13,425    136937    13723      17,6      3.394      2357    271 1 I      32.217
Net  "etr lece1 -,733    -.521                          -9 133    -112,9   -10.313   -1.572    -12,021   -1.537   -I12.35   -11.34    -121.33    -12.71U
(wf frtX  lete"v't p-atent      (2,02) 4   (,331)   (7,954)    9,Y324)   (5,4731   (9.XI)   (0.4150)   (9.53)   (9,51:7   (10.0053  (10,0,73   (10,705)
. IULT dbld
Net e-ewtr  etew                  -I.4"      -X.120    -.3. 65    .3.35      2.2407 X1.            2403    -3.310 U4.040 -4.03 4X3m                     4.9u
Noet Trenfars                           23        in         39        -10        [a        172          0          0         0         a          0          0
Cr,reetr Acewet hine.                4.9    -174.42     -11.004    44.737       .142        534   -.3.5        -1. my    -I."9        -779      -us        -73
DiOct Privt. Ireent                    62m    1.121        1.25       "I          5      1,057        732         n        5m       1.075      1200      1.452
N&IT 1..., (Net)                     A,530      4.493      k6,53     7.499      7.323     5,543      3.729      2.746     4.237      4.197     3.239      3.339
free 4iwts                        (45,92)  (11.313)  (15.045)   (124,953         (10    1153)  (14.11)  (125.50)  (1.937)  (12.94 7    (20,513)  (20,432)
amvrtlum                          (2.  32    (5.52)    f7.l395    (7.44)   (3.379)5 (10.24Z)   (11C 112)  (14.114)  (16.700)  (14.73)  (13644)  (10933
Irmailam: lawn Ahrwd (Nte)            -1L0        -27      -621        34         122 3      01          0    -2,40      -1.10    -2.,40      -300       -3.0
Otter Cwplutl lueeldlt   wrtos
-d esdeeten)                         -71      3.642      3.53      2.794     -[."I    -4.111        -320        203        53     -1.103    -1474    -1,.35
Ct-e Ia hew,rs. C- LdLatw
Increase)                          I.2       3.39       -4         ,11          24    -7,15  1  d27  #0       -71 -051              1      -1.0       -1.0
Iwcerzwtlmlt twervee La              3.719     6.912     7F 50       3,230      2,737    10.475     I.9m       11n737    12,5        3.46    12.024      2452
CEdi    d           -                 3       t, 143      i03 n       5         207      -                           ' - _-        -          -          -
rsez* weNMtla of Imrtacts (m             L3         2.0       3.3        1.5        LI        L.         5.3        5.0       3.5        .3        k.         4.5
Leter1el CnituI etd ODet
Gesws Dibrewns                       5,912     I1.313     2,045    14U.93      20.       15,501 3   14.54      15.650    16.93D    15.77    20,5         20R,Z32
WItatleu  Crea                      -          -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -                    --
fAew Gewewl.ewLawa                   202         19        IN       1in           4        74         75         10        41         15         207
USC                                 el         15         17        am          3                    D0 50     37        35         13         4          3
OFC                               -          -         -          -             I         3          7          3                    3    0          0
Oter                                II          3          2      -                       1                     5         I          5         5          4
_eRC_tl_ewl  1                    5.10      11.29      15.025    14.5)    1t.8         25.07     1.757      14. 760   1 5,50    15,92       20,793    20.525
nUdle iwert Cdtt.                  311        412        50        b4       1.,09     3.307      2.M 1. 336 1.            12.    1.109      I,00      1.000
550                               230        353        339       423      1.34       1.294      LAW3      1.394      2.&"8     1.301      1,344      1,537
lie  Nlflaltea l                    it9       15        190        331       217        29      2I7          274        276     2.           2          270
trvet                             ,120     10.,51    14.352    100y         5,378    13.937     11.29      136732    1L7        14.031    17.95      17.15
letarmel *ebt
Dht  ebtstml  se. t W et.rwet     23.l2   3549          "4.5      73.034    79.350    5.13          ,343    93.090    99, 327    103.OD4    20I,43    114.002
Pbtliciftul, Gwrt.e            Ike"        9.54      44.       49,911    35,o5      4.57       75.43D    m2o16    90.24        97.25   ID.47   111,339
Prtit. Sew-ta_   t-e             9.392    1I.402      21,9m2    23,123    21.512     1.225      15.93      1247n      9.,17      4.09       2,515     2,653
tlldebseel Dhbt                    2,751     11.02t      22.43    14.32      13917    13.727      12,5       1079       9."I7       9.43      ,426      9.477
25 diabre_       tit    grew
dlaterbevet.              3.3        3.2        L4        4.2.      12.1        6.9       9.7        5,3        7.5       7.9        7.4       7,5
23t ODD/tetl Om0                       4.7       3.7        3.4        L7        4.5        3.2        5.0       5.5        7.2        7,        7.         7.5
r6  dbt ewrlCeitatal dbt h         e3.3a L5       LI        LI         Li        4.2        L.         4.1       4.2        3.5       5.3        55         7.4
Dett ewivsc
Mesel Seie  P.ie..t. lt 3rr70    12,241                 13,32      B2525    112206    20,976      22,979     24.35     23.251    23.453    25435       25,455
etneeat                          1.49 4S,321          7,936      9.32       7,572    10,739     11,"7      10,272    10,51      10,733    10.794    11,403
Payments _w S 1I n  (06753            35,5      25.3       40.5       71.7      45.0       72.3       50.0       73.3      6O5.9     40.9       533.       4U,
Avrtp Iwterwt, late w  _n
hereetmed lawn C(2 I.                  *67        1.7       15.3       1         11.4       11.9      3220         9.9       9.9       9.7        9.5        9.2
OFeIia                                 5.0       9.1       10.5       1.9       20.3       w _           _        *. _ _    ..       v.-.
lres Se _e                             S.9       13.5      14.3        3.3      12           e.       we.         e. .-a.             - -.
_tes  UsterIty we se
_rwtt    tsam_ cTar.m) le               9.0        9.7       9.7       10.9        9.3       9.5       20.1       11.4      11.5       11.3       11.)      11.3
Official                              ML&        IL2.7      L2Lf      11.7        2.9      we,        v-a.       _*.                                       _*. _*.a*-.
Prtvt. hers                            5.9        9.9       9.0       19.2        6.4       e,        wa.         ,         -a       *_         --         e.
HetesICT Ssractr, of rNulle Deat Stt.teadtD                            _
Nitetitsle tea_ tUdd  5 yeer                                59.
Sat.rtiw  tee stat  10 year                                93D
3atent S_r.t.re ot Deb  amt.eatiws
letarmst dew ehis, 22w firer year                           .
1  New  et I-let. _ld -a telle  -Ivatiw, aSSeent.
k lIten_t met maiteatee - eadlee ea  lee  tee telb p_e  _Sa_ st - 7tei-se debt.
S  Pl hIt eDt       frar 1973.
rd 7elllmsy.
Ww, r 19753, S tbmiear   a _ e tle. iw,t J   iw t ettetelieg let. aewet. VW adwr yar. S_e eaeasta 1a. *er le pnip  tat unit I. de. weflea_mt read.UJyg.
a,a, - Net a-madam.                                                                                                                    Hey 2. 253



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 3
THE STAIUS OF BANK GRCIUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. sMMARY STATDEENr OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                   Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
-   -                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Uis$ MilliOns)
Seventy two loans fully disbursed                                   3,107.7
1195     1976 Brazil                            Rural Development      12.0        1.3
1317     1976 Brazil                           Agro-Industry           83.0       25.9
1362     1977 State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development      42.0        1.4
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education               32.0        7.1
1488     1977 Brazil                           Rural Developnent       11.0        2.3
1525     1978 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sewerage               110.0       57.5
1537     1978 Brazil                            Rural Development      24.0       13.2
1538     1978  ELETERBRAS                       Power                 130.0       15.8
1557     1978 Brazil                           Roads                  114.0       17.3
1568     1978 Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0        16.4
1589     1978 Brazil                            Rural Development      37.0        15.0
1654     1979 Banco Nscional da Habitaceo      Sites and Services      93.0         .6
1656     1979 Banco Nacional ca Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0         13.2
1714     1979 Brazil                            Rural Development      26.0        16.3
1720     1979 Brazil                           Urban Development       70.0       26.6
1721     1979 COPEL                             Power                 109.0       26.7
1728     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development       40.0       22.5
1729     1979 Brazil                            Irrigation             28.0        4.7
1730-5   1979 Brazil                           Roads                  110.0       25.7
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control       34.0       30.4
1823     1980 Banco Nhcional cd labitacao      Water Supply           130.0        4.3
1824     1980  CEEE                             Power                 114.0       73.2
1839     198D  Brazil                          Urban Transport        159.0       37.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           139.0       32.9
1867     198D  Brazil                           Education              32.0       18.1
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development      63.0       51.5
1895     1980  ELETRDSJL                        Power                 125.0       87.9
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development       56.0       23.9
1939     1981  ELETS)BRAS                       Power                  54.0       43.4
1965     1981  EBDJ                            Urban Transport         90.0       57.0
1970     1981  Banco l!cional da Habitacao     Water Supply           180.0       108.0
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0        87.0
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            29.0        16.6
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            60.0        17.9
2060     1982 Brazil                            Agriculture            67.0       31.4



-36 -
SAN n
KIPe I o=f3
A. SM4ARY STATEDENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of Mardi 31, 1985)
Amount less  Undis-
Loan #  Year            Borrower                   NEEn Cancellations  buretd
aUS$ Millions)
2061     1982 Brazil                           Health                 13.0        6.0
2062     1982 Brazil                           Highsays              240.0       63.7
2116     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture            26.'        15.1
2138     1982  ELE)ROBRAS                      Power                 182.7       146.4
2163     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4        18.6
2170     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development     123.9       105.0
2177     1982 Brazil                           Rural Development      42.7       31.7
2193     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development       &9         4.8
2196     1982 CVRD.                            Iron Ore              30hi.j      117.2
2224     1982 Brazil                           Feeder Roads          154.0       129.0
2225     1982 BNDES                            Development Banking   220.0        9.5
2249     1983  Banco %acional da Habitacao     Water Supply          302.3      210.0
2268     1983  Brazil                          Agro-Industries       400.0      374.0
2269     1983 Brazil                           Rural Development      67.8        60.0
2343     1983  Brazil                          Urban Development      52.7        48.1
2347     1983  Brazil                          Export Development    352.0         1.4
2348     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture           303.0         6.0
2353     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture            65.2        61.0
1729-1   1983 Brazil                           Agriculture             7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            22.8        22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                      Power                 250.6      227.5
2365     1983  Eletrobras                      Power                 2228        190.5
2366     1983 Brazil                           Education              20.0        17.4
2412     1984 Brazil                           Education              40.0       36.9
2446     1984 Brazil                           Federal HEghways      210.0       189.7
2447/1   1984 State of Sao Paulo                lealth                55.5        55.5
24487T   1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health Studies          2.0         2.0
24887r   1985 Brazil                           Dewlopment Banking   300.0        300.0
2489/T   1985 Brazil                           Education              72.0        72.0
Total                                                ,,866.7 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                1,734.8
Total now outstanding                               8,131.9
Amount sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                              8,131.9
Total undisbursed                                              3,560.3
/1 Not yet effective.
T? No IDA credits bave been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed In Eart A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA firAnced projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-37 -                                             mo  U1
So 3 of 3
L   Slt Q 1PC   D         l C  GE kdi 31. 1095)
nluml                                                                                                                    _   in Mw i dllko
Obligor                                    Tip cc irnm.                    1mm       39Ag' 4i
1957                Sl_ d Beall Ci  de -dhdi                                     WaCIdl qdm                          2.00       - l.00
1a M5n*ft. L. A. shalm  a Aid                                                    "ad        r                          5L20      -       120
1956                D. L R. Pluadi    do eUm L    A. ASLw                                   Wto                       0.45       -       0.45
1958                I1_1InOjdad db _-41, . A. - *.ui dea                         ..                                   2.45      U- 245
1959                  p       _ng   de Ch o     I      S1 46                    -.3.                                            -        1.20
1959                auqdmC.        , S. A.                                                                            4.00      -        4.00
SW6IM=6o197n Vl Ulm, S. A.                                                     5t_                                     O0      1.15     9.69
19W619               1  a CabAu Caud. .L A-                                     b And b,.r                           3.71      341      7.19
1967/1972           UlgmtwtJ L4  . A. - I hutda . C do de hIjl .tw              luuUilrn.                             1L22      3.03    11.25
D69                 bhqduim  Uudmo  S. A.                    _adimimIe                                                5.50     4..U     338
1970                 aliolafim. SL A. 1MMA  a Ccwcle                bimda-1                                           .50       2.86     38.
1971                Odue. S.L A. iuwls a Catrod_lamgms                                                                4.60      L"      6.04
1971                aneC      -Q_b -dda de Cilim  doSil                          b4i1                                 4.9D      -       4.90
197/1975/1981       t dhh  da Cto Nhd1ml de  1_                                   r                                  69.14     6.70   175186
1973/74/77/M1/84   Cmpida Slqm_ gi 5        Quumhm - M    ;A                     sina                                7497       527    924
1973                (    Ml bc rwlqint laud -POW                                 Chrib lbz      glom                 5.0        -       -100
19731973/197 U98   di o1v1ia i de bowap Mdgio - tX,% S. A.   Ed11  iad  ai P"O'                                      65.00      L.74    3.274
1974                In6o1 11, Ujham. S. A.                                        0awbm nd j     1wm Iqdet LOD                  -       LOD
1974                 Feblm de l-ddo Ikop, S A.                                                                       31.OD       -      31DD
197V1979             tp.m  rabSi  JAdidW  Ltd.                                   Omb  Rio                             6.18      L19      7.37
1975                 erm  Mbakm. S. A.                                           5ePw dImOz 100                                  -      10.00
1976b       1         Gmium k. ia - Tn    db Xih ta, S.A.                       Tau                                   6L45     LlO      7.45
197V190D             mo  SL A. - sal Gandzmm do 1mu                              T-                                  16.20       -      1320
197?                8  S. A. PkA    Hmimi                                        km .d Alsutm ChtI_                  20D.        -      20.0
1977                lwrmo Rle do Ib         S. A.                                                                    15.00       -      15.0
197e                 Qn Mdauzl   S. A.                                           km ad Sogd                           3.3       3.00    13.36
199                  vo do. fa        Kamm e kImUg.. SL A.                       Hoawr 1o1m                                     5.27    65.27
190D                6.dg do N      d    S. A. -Malbas                            h4      cZme                        2OD        -       2.00
193D                bomb do km S/A -    ow. - iml-bm. h dA
ce CAm doid 0namu                                         B.14X.1                              3.50   LO0        4.
198D                Vilim  UAtdu  de m  SL A. - lmnM                             IMM ad _el                           5.00       -       5.D
193D                PM - CAGpbdd 1.I.iiial de 1oUprapn                           CAg1   Ed m   todgl_ b               .0       2.00    17.00
193D                  datdA SmCurm S  A.                                            1       _odin     Pet              -        0.25     0.25
193                Skm    u.dsa QdM-  e_1aema S/A                  reIzl,ws                                          35.OD      6.00    4L1O
19t                 POLaMI ka       sdICK                                        Coom1b ad 1hUudxm1a                 43.0       5.      4300
19t1                hudiuar                                                     biv ad cIgi         n                  -        3.50    .L50
1501                Caqad Da kIdm  de Aoapuda -                                  Faid mid IFod k uh1                  5.        30       3.50
1981                TzIuto                                                      Ouz-.1a1 aid kOO d.a                 43.00      4.0a    5.W0
1932                0      OWED cm                                              amm am ommudailm  ocaIl 4e 0W                   5.D    45.10
19Q                           S. A.                                             k-  Spim  bi                        30X.0      0.45    30.45
19t3                fm 3>rdereb de  3tc1c m   (On                               IM CIAIzal 1                                     .03     .03m
193 At!m Fd    fSm                                                               row am  Food framw                  1i0o       -       13.O
19t3                Caiida Dqw&  doJmp (=P)                                      3.11                                 LID0      -        6.10
1983                PJ1A  - Spel die1     L.                                     Rp A Ip h    mrn                    6.00       5.17    65.17
1953                SoLaaS-4.                                                    Fo ad Food R      i                  3.0       2.50     5.0
19F3                caid CaMcMuld.m 1Rtada                                                                           35.00      -       3500
18                  C=( stda   AI~oldd- Ibdomi                                   Omidmi aid 1t_ndadms                ZLOO       4.0     2.00
1985                Qdm   dr Edi                   t-2m aid P_tmda                                                    2.75      LOD     4.55
-   c1   Cccx    G_Adtummo                                                             0L97      964  1130A1
Na.. CaEdshdmu. ~z.tkm. lqnyu.aw Ed Sle                                                661.79     1I513   76.92
TktB  G ss b          d t I-                                                           22C.18     631    3.L49
T-al Uidm=Wd                                                                            71.39     1256    M5.95
Apa 1. 1915



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
C9ESF - FURNAS POWER TRANSKISSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA SHEET
Section . - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare Project: approximately seven months
(b)  Project Prepared by:  ELETROBRAS, FURNAS, CHESF with Bank
assistance
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: September 1984
(d) Appraisal Mission: November/December 1984
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 1985
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1. The federal Government agreed that:
(a) as a condition of loan effectiveness, it will present to the Bank
a satisfactory 1984-1988 investment program ard financial plan
formally approved by the Government (para. 54);
(b) not later than November 30 of each year, prepare and furnish to
the Bank an updated five-year investment program for the electric
power sector, and a detailed financial plan for the investments
included in such program, both to be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 54);
(c) cause the five-year investment program to be carried out in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, the funds and other resources required for
the purpose in accordance with the sectoral financial plan
(para. 54);
(d) the required measures are undertaken to reduce the sector's
reliability on borrowings (para. 54);



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)  it will prepare and agree with the Bank during 1985 on an action
plan to implement by December 1989 the recommendations of the
long-run marginal cost study that is being financed by the Bank
(Loan 1939-BR) (para. 54);
(f)  if tariffs for bulk sale of electricity generated at Itaipu were
to exceed the levels now charged by Brazilian suppliers in the
South, Southeast and Central-Western regions of Brazil, the
Federal Government will promptly take measures required to offset
cost increases arising from high Itaipu tariffs and to ensure
that the agreed rates of return are met (para. 54);
(g)  it will implement by December 31, 1987, a medium-term program
satisfactory to the Bank designed to strengthen ELETROBRAS' role
in the sector distribution planning (para. 41).
2. The execution by the Borrower of subsidiary Loan Agreements with the
beneficiaries in terms satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 62).



IBRD 18815
BRAZIL                                                                                 VUNILA._ V.EDONDA         SOSAOI
CHESF - FURNAS POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT                                                                                              ADAOLIS  -
FURNAS SYSTEM                                                                                         ...--
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I }                                                                       \  "   ,''" .u1zW^
TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                                                L                                                          CAAJAt
PROJECT   FUTURE   EXISTING                                                                                           )               OetodA                        :-,'  jACAE;
';'  _  _   750 KV                                                           6*SERRA DA MESA
+-600 KV                                                                          ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 'm -v 0810WE  '1W  11  ,  I
-            -     600KV                     M  A T O
500 KV                                                                                                        8    W   1  ~-            ~      -    ,
3450KV                G  R  O  S  S O         |                                                       .
-21345 KV                                 _3BARRO ALTO   *j4 i                                 -                         B  A  H  I A
------ 230/138KV  J  %                                                    Beasilia ('
HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANTS                                                             BRASILIA GERLIL          S *                                             _
*      FURNAS                                       0 G0  I A  S                 BRASILIA SUL
A     OTHER COMPANIES                    -U                         B               (ABI
MAGALHAES    BANDEIRANTES*
SUBSTATIONS                                               t
*                  *       fURNAS                                         RIO VERDE
O     OTHER COMPANIES               !W.
'Substions h which project woris will be carried out                                    ITUM BIR              Rf       5
*      NATIONAL CAPITAL
0 STATE CAPITALS                                               SIMAO
RIVERS                                                                                                                            ESPI      Z
RESERVOIRS            M       A T 0   G ROSSO        A\SRN HA
STATE BOUNDARIES            DO   S U L         r                              E TRTO            BAR RO
-   -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          MARIMBONDO
*                  FURNAS        /&ii'vis                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CACHloEIRO  / VITORIA
,                                 I       o ^           S           { ;FUR~~~~~~~              ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N;    X  ITAP,EMIRIMr 
<t \& X >I~~~~~~~~~TUTiNGA r D
MARANHAO 
C ACHOEIR
AMAEONAS I PAIA   ~ ~~110GIANNE
A IA A   ON AAIPA               NORAIIA.:*U
P I IN A NIU C6O .
\..   I MATO        s~~~~~AlonSNT
PENU~~            "'~~-~.    ArdANrI,.4
B Li VIA       PUIJi          OCEAN                                                                                                 ''
OA     S    iSP IETSANTO
~~  If~~~i *~~~.      110D JANEiIO        ITA
f)                EA~~~~ cm A                                                                                          50 Paula                               o      20      40
#.   10 OPANf WO Jut           IOUACU                                                                                          ri
IARGENTINA4~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~  MN& CATAlINA  P02 DO                                0                     MILES,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  D    C6 li    20    li
IIJRU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UAY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 198!



,  %, , - -,:;-,.'', lt'3,'t,CE5fFtRNAS POWER TRANSMISSION PRO EC',.:. ,''
P A   i A                                                         A r ArS Nrvtr   OCA-  j
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l    a    r32. io  -z-
tAl A  R  A  N H   AO     <
~~~%-      *       Jf              - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C E A R A   fR0G DNORTEF 
G o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I AS ir   >                                s    
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w --/-BA I P E R            .      ) c #   -  la
G 0 11 A    /S _    t
te,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FORAtEZMALS\_0/_-- v,v-
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A                     I  A                       MATSGE  R A r WS vt___-      
S7   l   _                             .j 9. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-M  w sn etmxojt BU-
lXi  (]}-14V='=-=-St1~~~~~~~~~I
xt8eSW/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PM IVW Eva_ter   I  S;  -






