Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5721-BUR Type: (PR)                           RePortNz P-5721-BUR
MILLS, C. / X35000 / J9 137/ AF5AG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 20.6 MILLION
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR A
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MAY 12, 1992
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EoEJealEN!S
Currency Unit        -          CrA franc  (CPA?)
USS 1.00             =          CFAF 272
CFAF 1 million       -          US$ 3,676
SYSTEM OF WEIOHTS AXD MEASURE: METRIC
FI8CAL YA
January 1 - December 31
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission composed of
Messrs. Cadman Atta Mills (Senior Economist and Mission Leader), Francis
Mody (operations Officer, Resident Mission, Niger), Celestin Bado
(Operations Officer, Resident Mission, Burkina Faso), and Me. Tonia
Marek (Nutritionist) who visited Burkina Faso in October/November 1991
and in January 1992. The October/November appraisal mission was held
jointly with the French Aid Agencies (Caisse Centrale and the Ministry
of Cooperation) and the European Community. Further Assistance was
provided by Mr. Albert Djigma (Local Consultant) and Mr. Kafando (Local
Consultant, provided by UNICEF). Mrs. Jann Masterson provided
operational assistance. Ms. Monika Huppi provided support to the
project during the preparatory phase. Messrs. Joseph Baah-Dwomoh and J.
W. van Holut Pellekaan were peer reviewers. Mr. Rashid Faruqee reviewed
the program for the Chief Economist's Office. Mrs. Katherine Marshall
is the Department Director, Mr. Frangois Laporte, the Department Lead
Economist and lead advisor for this project, Mr. Emmerich Schebeck, the
Department Projects Advisor, and Mr. Salah Darghouth, the managing
Division Chief.



rOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
AfED       s      African Development Bank
AW         I      Amenagement des Vallees des Volta (Volta Valley
Authority)
BCEAO             B Danque Centrale des Stats de LAfrique de 1'Ouest
(Central Bank of (Francophone) West African States)
CBC        a      Conseil Burkinabe des Chargeurs (Burkina Council of
Shippers)
CCC$       s      Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (French
Development Bank for Economic Cooperation)
CSAO              Communaut6 Iconamique des Etats de L'Afrique de
l'Ouest (Economic Community of (6 Francophone) West
African States)
CFDT       I      Compagnie Fransaise pour l Developpment des Fibres
Textiles (French Textile Development Corporation)
CGP        a      Caisse G6n6rale de Pdrdquation (price stabilization
board for imported basic commodities)
CNELS      s      Commission Nationale de Lutte contre les 8ffets de la
S6cheresse (National Commision to Combat the Sffects
of Drought)
CNCA       s      Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole (National Bank for
AgrLultural Credit
CRPA       I      Centre R6gional do Promotion Agro-pastorale (Regional
Centers for the Promotion of Agro-pastoral activities)
CSPPA             Caisse do Stabilisation des Prix des Produ-ts Agricole
(Price Stabilization Board for (export) Agricultural
Products)
DEP        a      Direction des Etudes et do la Planification
(Directorate of Studies and Planning)
EC         s      European Community
EPiC       a       tabliosement Public Industriel at Commercial
(Publicly-owned Industrial and Commercial
Establishment)
PIER              Ponds de l'Eau et de l'EquLpemeat Rural (Rural Water
Resources and Infrastructure Fund)
FLEX-FASO  a      SociLte des Fruits at Lgqumes du Burkina Paso (a mixed
state enterprise producing and exporting fruits and
vegetables)
011        a      Groupement d'Int&r&t Economique (Economic Association)
02s3              Les Grands Moulins du Burkina (Burkina Flour Kill)
IXHP              international Monetary Fund
INERA      a      Institut National dZtudes et de Recherche Agricole
(Agricultural Research Institute)
INSD       a      Institut National de la Statistique et de la
Demographie (National institute for Statistics and
Demography)
MACP       a      Ministtre de l'Action Coop6rative Paysanne (Ministry
of Cooperatives)
MAE        s      MinistAre de 1'Agriculture et de l'ElQvage (MLnistry
of Agriculture and Livestock)
OVNACER    s      Office National des C6r6ales (National Cereals
Marketing Board)
ONAC       a      Office National de Commerce 8xt6rieur  (National
Foreign Trade Agency)
ONAN       s      offfice National des Barrages et des Amenagements
Hydro-Agricoles (A state institution for supervising
dams and irrigation schemes)
PAS        a      Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (Structural
Adjustment Program)
PA"8       a      Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel de l'Agriculture
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program)
PFP        a      Policy Framework Paper
PNT(V)    s       Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs Villageois
(National Village Land Management Program)
SIL        s      Structural Adjustment Loan
This document has a restrictod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petformance
of their offlcial duties Its contents may not otherwine be disecsed without World Irt a ithorizaion.



SE         s      Soci6te dEtat  (state-owned enterprise.)
SECAL      s      Sector Adjustment Loan
8EN        s      Socift6.AdEconomie Mixte (Joint Venture Company)
SOFITEX    s      Soci6t6 Burkina des Fibres Textiles (mixed state
cotton company)
SOFIVAR    :      Soci6t6 de Financement et de Vulgarisation de
l'Arachide (Groundauts Promotion Company)
SONACOR    s      Soci6t6 Nationale de Collect* du Rix (rice processing
companys subsidiary of CGP)
SOSUCO     s      Soci6t6 sucribre de la Como& (Comoe Sugar Company)
UCOBAM     s      Union des Coop6ratives Agricoles at MaralchAres du
Burkina (Union of Agricultural and Vegetables
Cooperatives of Burkina)
U1O0A             Union Mon6taire Ouset Africaine (West African Monetary
Union)



AGRICULTUA  sRT    VU-NI CRlmIT
TADL3 OF eoNTEN5.
Credit and Program Summary  . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . . . ...   .  i
I.   THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND ADJUsTMENT STRTEGY . . . . .   1
A.   Background   .      . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .   1
B.   The Structural Adjustment Strategy  . . . . . . . . . .   6
C.   Growth Prospects and Economic Outlook . . . . . . . . .   8
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR DEVELOPMEhT STRATEGY  . . . . . . . .   9
A.   Sector Background . . . . . . .                          9
B.   Recent Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
C.   Constraints to Sustainable Growth . . . . . . . . . . .  10
D.   Current Sector Development Strategy . . . . . . . . . .  12
E.   The Medium Term Agricultural Sector Strategy  . . . . .  14
--,. MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM . . . . . . . . .  14
A.   Objectives of the Sector Adjustment Program . . . . . .  14
S.   The Policy Agenda .a...  .  .   .................. .   15
Cereals Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Cotton    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Other Cash Crop.
(Sesame, Groundnuts, Sheanuts)  . . . . . . . . .  23
Sugar  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...............      24
Fruits and Vegetable;   ..............   26
Livestock  *  *  * *.. . .... ..   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
other Institutional Reform  . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Coordination of Investment with the
Recurrent Budget              .28
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT  .....................   30
A.   Credit History      . .   . . . . . . . . . . .         30
B.   Financing and Management of the Program . . . . . . . .  30
C.   Procurement and Disburements . . . . . . . *    .       31
D.   Organization for Credit Execution . . . . . . . . . . .  32
S.   Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting . . . . . . . . . .  32
F.   Monitorable Actione  ...................   32
G.   Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
V.  RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
VI. ANNExEs
Annex I:   Key Nacroeconomic Indicators
Annex II:  Agricultural SECAL Policy Matrix
Annex III: Letter of Agricultural Development Policy
Annex IV:  Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Annex V:   Status of Bank Group Operations



ABCULtmRAL SECTOR B aE= rSTMNT C -JflpD
Credit and PSoar  Summar
AogrEsa           8 Burkina Faso
Amounts           SDR 20.6 million (US$ 28 million equivalent)
Cof inancinas     European Community (Lome IV) ECU 17 million (US$ 20
million); African Development Bank VA 10 million (US$ 13
million); France FF 120 million (US$ 21 million)
Termss            Standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years
Program
Dencriotions      The proposed Agricultural  Sector Adjustment Credit
(Agricultural SECML) would support a sectoral adjustment
program to deepen and extend to the agricultural sector
reforms supoorted at the macroeconomic level by SAL I,
which was approved by the Bank's Board in June 1991.
The main components of the agricultural sector
adjustment program ares liberalizing domestic marketing
and prices of traditional cereals at producer and
consumer levelst liberalizing (external) trade in
traditional cereals; liberalizing the consumer price of
rice, the price of paddy, and the processing of rice;
restructuring OFNACER (the national cereals marketing
board), and limiting its role to the maintenance and
management of food aid and food security stocks;
reforming the agricultural trade regime-import policies
and the determination of appropriate tariffs (pending
the results of an ongoIng tariff study) for the main
imported agricultural commodities (rice, sugar, wheat
flour)--including   reforming   the   export   price
stabilization schemes for cotton and abandoning the
schemes for groundnuts, sesame, and shea butter;
reinforcing the nain achievements of the on-going IDA-
financed Fertilizer project by ensuring that the
marketing of all agricultural inputs is liberalized and
further ensuring that no new subsidies on inputs
(whether  direct  or  indirect)  are  reintroduced;
rationalizing the role of various ministries and
agencies intervening in the agricultural sector, and
undertaking a manpower review of the main agricultural
extension units (the ORPAs) with a view to restructuring
them; and assisting the Government to prepar three-year
investment program (1992-94) which reflects clear
sectoral  priorities  and  the  established  project
selection criteria agreed under SAL I.
Benefits
and Riskos        The proposed operation is expected to improve incentives
for agricultural production and marketing, improve
efficiency,   and   increase   productivity   in  the
agricultural sector. The project is expected to have a
pesitive impact on economic growth and employment
creation in the private sector and, through its impact
on agricultural incomes and agricultural product
marketing across the country, to contribute to food
security in the medium term.



- li -
The risks derive from the fact that Burkina Paso has
embarked on dramatic political reforms.   Political
reforms include the adoption of a now constitution was
submitted to public referendum in June 1991, and the
holding of presidential elections In January 1992.
Legislative elections are planned for May 24, 1992.
Along with these reforms, there have been a number of
ministerial reorg&nizations, and another is expected
following the legislative elections.  The number of
ministerial changes affecting the agricultural sector
have been considerable.
However, the fact that the Government has formulated its
economic reform program in a relatively open and
transparent manner reduces the risks of delays in
implementation    linked    to   the   ministerial
reorganizations.    The preraration of the sectoral
adjustment program has involved a large number of
Burkinabe officials and economic agents and various
aspects of the proposed policy agenda have been widely
debated in a series of nation-wlde seminars.   This
process is expected to strengthen the Government s
commitment and ability to implement the proposed policy
agenda.   The Government has already undertaken far
reaching reforms in the context of SAL I and thus
demonstrated its commitment and ability to carry out
such reforms. The most important donors in Burkina Paso
have been closely associated with the preparation and
appraisal of the agricultural sector adjustment program
and are committed to participate in the financing of the
program.
-atimated
Disbursements:    US$ 28 million equivalent of credit would be released in
three tranches, with US$ 10 million constituting the
first tranche, US$ 10 million would constitute the
second tranche, and the remainder US$ 8 million the
third tranche.   The first would be released upon
effectiveness; the second would be released after
completion of a specific list of core actions and a
satisfactory performance review to be held within 12
months of effectiveness; the third tranche would be
released after completion of core actions and a second
performance review to be held within 12 months of
release of the second tranche.  Disbursement of the
entire credit is expected to be completed within 24
months of credit effectiveness.
IBRD 20660
There is no separate staff appraisal report.



rINYUR 9rImNAL Du ffOPNIN  A880CIATIN
REPORT AND RElowMENDarI0N OF THU PRUSIDENT
TO TME EXECUTXVU DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED  ZD3EWONSNT CREDIT
TO SUHiWI PASO
FOR AR AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AI_USTMENT PROGRAM
1. *I  submit  for  your  approval  the  following  report  and
recommendation on a proposed credit of SDR 20.6 million (US$ 28 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to Burkina
Paso to help support the Government's agricultural sector adjustment
program.  The African Development Bank (AfDB), the European Community
(EC), and France have expressed interest in providing cofinancing or
parallel financing.
I. M U MACROCOoNOMIC FRAMEWORK AND ADJU8TMENT STRA2EGY
A.   8ackaround
2.          Economic Structure. Burkina Faso is a landlocked country with
a population of about 9 million, which is 90 percent rural. It lies in a
transition zone between the Sudano-Guinean region and _he Sahel, and its
climate is characterized by wide rainfall variations. Soil, water, and
biomass resources are limited and fragile.   Resource degradation is
accelerating because of overexploitation and population pressure. With a
gross domestic product per capita of US$320 in 1990, Burkina ranks among
the worldts poorest countries. Basic social services are undeveloped, and
13.fe expectancy at birth (47 years) and primary school enrollment (31
percent) remain among the lowest in sub-Saharan Africa. There has been
substantial emigration to neighborir.g coastal countries, particularly
Ghana and Cote dlIvoire, mainly by the youngest strata of the active
population. This has helped to contain rapid population growth, while
bringing in substantial income in the form of emigrant workers'
remittances.
3.          The economy is dominated by agriculture and the public sector.
Agriculture and stock raising contribute about 30 percent to GDP and are
the main source of income and provide employment for almost 90 percent of
the economically active population. Cultivation of traditional food crops
(millet and sorghum) is by far the most important farming activity while
cotton is the major export crop.   Services are the largest sector,
accounting for an estimated 42 percent of GDP while manufacturing remains
undeveloped and contributes only about 14 percent of GDP.   Informal
activities dominate in the services sector (about two-thirds of value
added) and are also significant in the secondary sector (about 40 percent
of value added). The modern sector is essentially limited to government
services and to the parastatal sector which accounts for practically the
whole of moderr industry.
4.          Despite some success with exports of off-season vegetables to
Europe and fruit to neighboring countries, Burkina's exports are dominated
by three primary commodities--livestock (to the coastal countries), cotton
and, since 1985, gold. The economy has been highly dependent on inflows
of foreign assistance and of remittances from an estimated 3 million
BurkinabA abroad to finance most investment and in some years a part of
consumption expenditure.   With the limited potential for near-term
economic diversification, the economy remains highly vulnerable to
climatic vagaries and adverse movements in international commodity prices.
5.          Recent Economic Growth 11S82-901.  Despite rapid population
growth and a fragile resource base, Burkina's economy fared relatively
well during the 1980s.   During 1983 - 1990, GDP growth (3.7% p.a.)



slightly outstripped population growth (3.3% p.a.). The average growth
rate masks two distinct periods: until 1988, the economy enjoyed
relatively rapid growth (average annual growth rate of 5.5%) mainly
fuelled by strong performance in agriculture (6.4% annual growth),
expansion in public consumption, and a construction boom driven by the
public investment program. During the last two years, however, economic
growth fell significantly: -0.4% in 1989 and 1.3% in 1990. This slow down
was to a large extent due to negative growth in the agricultural sector,
caused Inter alia by inadequate rainfalls.
Tabl2J14 Selected Economic Indicators, 1986-90
.~~          .              ... |       =
NIAWA Nnboomends |dw         1986  1987        1989  1990
GDP at consta_ 198S pio (% p.a.)  93   1.2   61   -0.4   13
ApcuhWe, Uveok and foiesy (S6 pa.)  10.8  -4.2  13.8  _2.9  -3.4
Gross domntc i_estment (% of GDP)  22.9  20.0  22.2  22.8  19.9
Gros domeavisass (X of GDP)    3.3   4.1   82   6.0  S.2
GDP def_tor (%pa.)             0.0   5.S   3.0   1.2  3.0
Consamorprbie(% pa.)           1.9   1.8   1.9   2.0  3.0
_ _-= ..= - ==
6.          Manufacturing stagnated during the 1980s even though highly
protected by import controls.  The reasons were several.   Structural
factors such as poor technical skills, high energy and transport costs,
high wages, worker benefits, and rigid price and trade regulationq hurt
competitiveness. The regulatory framework for industry, both public and
private, based on an official strategy of *state capitalism," included a
complex and sometimes contradictory set of regulations while special tax
exemptions and protective measures for a number of large enterprises under
the investment code deterred efficiency gains.
7.          The significant fall in economic growth in 1989 and 1990,
growing internal and external arrears, and an increasingly strained
budgetary situation suggest that the basis for the expansion of the 1980.
was, to a large extent, unsustainable.   First, the high growth of
agriculture was due to good weather and to the bringing of new land,
recently freed from onchocerciasis, under cultivation.   Further, the
agricultural growth "was largely based on the mining of the natural
resource endowment"IJ especially in the Sahel and the Central Plateau as
the growth was achieved through more extensive land use, shortened fallow
periods, etc.  Second, the expansion of public consumption could not
continue in the face of stagnant revenue performance and growing budgetary
arrears. Finally, because the overall efficiency of investment was very
low, as reflected in an ICOR of 7.3 in 1985-90, only modest benefits from
past high investment spending were secured.
8.          Savines Ma  Investment.    Burkina is dependent on foreign
assistance to finance most public investment and some consumption. In
1986-90, net disbursements of official capital grants and loans averaged
US$126 million annually or 5 percent of GDP. An additional average of
US$100 miliion annually was contributed by donors for technical assistance
and by NGOs. Thanks to four years of strong economic growth after the
JJSee Buna Pawo: Economc loms in Renewable Naund ReueMa AguiuC Opeation,
Sa  DepaDmnt, Afiia Regin, March 30, 1990.



1983-84 drought, domestic savings performance up until 1988 was good, but
could not be sustained with the economic slowdown in 1989 and 1990.
Workers' remittances from abroad (averaging 6 percent of GDP in 1986-90)
have made a significant contribution to national savings.
9.          Throughout the late 1980s, investment has been relatively
high, averaging 22 percent of GDP, largely because of large public
investment.   Much of the investment, however, has gone to major new
infrastructure projects with low, or even negative, economic returns such
as a railway extension, a large dam, new public office buildings, and a
clinker crushing plant. Public housing projects were financed by forced
lending from domestic banks, contributing to an increasingly precarious
situation of the banking system.   As for the private sector, it has
invested primarily in housing, office buildings and informal sector
activities.   The legal and regulatory framework was not conducive to
investment in formal sector industrial and service activities; moreover,
private investors were crowded out by the privileged and, in some cases,
formally monopolistic, positions of public sector firms in virtually all
subsectors.
10.         Fiscal  and  Monetary  Performance  (1986-90.       Although
government revenues (excluding budgetary grants) averaged 13 percent of
GDP Z/ in 1986-90, the budgetary situation has been strained, with the
overall government deficit (excluding grants) averaging 12 percent of GDP
in 1986-90 (Table 2). The difficult financial situation was mainly due to
three factors:  (i) a large part of budgetary resources claimed by the
wage bill; (ii) substantial parafiscal resources, especially those levied
on imports of petroleum products, remaining in special accounts of
autonomous public agencies; and (iii) tax revenues hindered by a narrow
tax base, a large volume of exemptions, and weakness in the tax structure
and collection process.
11.         The overall fiscal deficit was particularly large in 1986-88
in response to an increase in public investment and, after 1987, an
expansion of the public wage bill. The rapid growth in the government
wage bill, especially for the military, has squeezed expenditures for
supplies, operations and maintenance, local contributions to foreign-
financed  investment projects,  and debt service.   Since government
borrowing from the central bank is statutorily limited by the rules of the
West African Monetary Union (UMOA) of which Burkina is a member, a part of
the deficit was financed through an accumulation of arrears. Arrears on
domestic and external payments began to accumulate especially rapidly in
1987 aned reached an estimated CFAF 83.4 billion by the end of 1990,
equivalent to one year's fiscal revenue.   Arrears on external debt
service, CFAP 49.4 billion of the total, have compromised relations with
donors while arrears on internal payments now constrain business activity.
12.         At the same time significant parafiscal resources have not
been available to finance public expenditure because they have gone into
the special accounts of autonomous price stabilization funds and service
agencies. Although some of these funds were used to provide capital for
several public enterprise investments, most have remained on deposit with
domestic banks. As a result, the Government has been a substantial net
creditor to the banking sector.  In 1986-88, there was also a marked
increase in net foreign assets due to good growth of exports and a
relative stagnation of imports. This contributed to a rapid growth of the
money supply, mostly in time and savings deposits. In 1989, the trends in
credit were reversed as lending to the private sector expanded, the net
2.1   The GDP series used for the ratios of fised performnoce eohude the value added of the infrmal sector
because it is hard to measure. hi the 1ate 1980s, thee formal secor accounted for an estimated 72 percent
of GDP.



- 4 -
creditor positior. of the Goverment shrunk, and the overall balance of
payments registered a large deficit for the first time since 1982. The
financial health of banks deteriorated throughout the period, with a
marked worsening in the last two years. In 1990, nonperforminin loans (net
of bank provisions) increased by CFAF 8 billiout, to CFAF 22 billion,
equivalent to 15 percent of the banks' loan portfolio. Audits conducted
by the central bank showed that three commercial banks urgently needed
resteucturing while the postal checking system and the national savings
bank continued to experience liquidity problems.
Table.2. Selected public finance and
external sector indicato's, 1986-90
---------------------------------------------------------__-----------
19,8    19?    im        1999    199
publb fiae indicators (% of fomal GDP)
Goverwmea Revenue                                       13.4    14.5    13.2    11.8    14.6
Cunt Expend                                             13.5    13.2    13.4    12.5    14.5
caal E_enure                                            12.4    IS.1    11.8      9.0      7.9
Consolidated budget deficit (a)                         12.8    14.5    12.5      8.9      7.6
GovemeatWae Bil
(% of Curent Expendre)                                54.0    58.6    63.5    65.2    60.7
Expornvolums (1985  100)                               103.9   133.1   127.0   123.0   151.3
- cotton                                      175.0   237.5   187.2   188.5   246.0
-od                                           171.1   247.7   261.1   154.8   214.4
- ihvesock                                     78.5    79.7    91.1   104.0   107.2
TOtl expont of goods and NFS (USS m)                   188.8   264.7   284.2   254.5   3S1.4
Towa wrkes' rt_a   (USS ni)                            191.6   173.4   174.6   1473    163.9
Totd iKpots of good and NPS (US$ m)                    594.7   660.2   695.1   710.2   835.4
Metruandise Tems of trade
(198&-10)((USS)                                       97.6    98.2   108.5    96.8    98.8
Reld effetve exchange rate
(1955  1003                                           98.2    94.1    94.5    90.4    90.3
Balace of spvms idicators (X of formal GD
Current Account EBaance (a)                           -15.3   -13.4   -12.8   -173    -14.5
Overll Baance                                           1.9      0.5      1.0    -7.1    -1.6
I ternal Debt WLT+ST+IEMF
Toa debt diursed and custanding
(US$m)(DRS)                                          669.5   866.0   877.8   757.2   794.0
Tota debt srvice paid
(USS Milion) (b)                                      67.3    61.3    54.4   321.9    51.9
Debt srvice pald/epo"ils of goods
and uvc (%) (b)                                       33.5    22.0    18.2   120.2    14.2
(a)  Excluding grants, comMi t basis.
(b)  Includes, in 1989, for official debt to France, debt rief of US$16.6 nillnu and capialiton of canled dbt of
US$188.7  m
13.             Starting in 1989, the fiscal situation has begun to improve,
initially due to a reduction in public investment expenditure as several
large projects neared completion. More sustained improvement took place
in 1990 in response to measures taken to reverse the adverse development
in both current expenditures and revenues in the three preceding years.
The government achieved a 15 percent growth in revenues thanks to reduced
import duty exemptions, strengthened tax collection, and revision of
standard values on which import duties are assessed. The last measure



channelled to the budget a larger portion of the substantial parafiscal
resources arising from the difference between import and domestic prices
of petroleum products. Initial steps were also taken to contain the wage
bill by limiting recruitment and freezing both salaries and the financial
impact of promotions. As a result of the launching of the ad4ustment
program in 1990, the overall fiscal deficit fell to 7.6 percent of GDP.
14.         Given Burkina' s membership in the West African Monetary Union
and the fixed exchange rate parity between the CFA franc and the French
franc, appropriate demand management policies are necessary to hold price
increases in Burkina below those of its competitors. Throughout the 1980s
the authorities have been successful in containing inflation and improving
Burkina's international competitiveness. With domestic price inflation,
as measured by the consumer price index, lower than that of its recorded
trading partners, Burkina Paso's real effective (trade-weighted) exchange
rate depreciated 25 percent between 1980 and 1990 3/. Further progress
is needed, however, to improve the competitiveness of the economy.
15.         Balance of Payments.   In the 1980s, balance of payments
developments have been driven largely by four main factoras (i) revenues
from exports of labor to neighboring countries, which were almost as
important as the revenues from exports of all goodsi (ii) world market
prices for cotton and golds (iii) domestic production performance of
cotton and gold; and (iv) imports linked to the public investment program.
16.         The summer of 1986 is considered  l'6t6 noir" for Burkina's
cotton. The average f.o.b. export price at Abidjan collapsed from CFAF
593 per 'kilogram in 1984/5 to CFAF 367 per kilogram in 1985/86. Though
world market prices recovered somawhat in 1986/87 (to CTA" 406 per
kilogram) and 1987/88 (to CFAP 447 per kilogram), in 1988/89 they dropped
again, by 16 percent, and recovered only weakly, by 8 percent, in
1989/90.4/   Thus, despite rapidly growing export volume  (including
exports from previously accumulated stocks), cotton export revenues in the
last two years remained lower than revenues in 1987/88.
17.         Gold exports grew rapidly until 1989.  Gold prices were,
however, weak in 1988 and 1989.  The drop in the price of gold was
compounded in 1989 and 1990 by sharp declines in the volume of production
due to technical difficulties (a mine collapse). Estimates of livestock
exports vary widely (see Table 8). Most sources show that export of heads
of cattle and small ruminants fell considerably between 1985 and 1988 and
begun to reco--r only in 1989.
18.         With grants and net official capital inflows averaging US$263
million annually, the overall balance of payments continued to record
surpluses of about 1 percent of GDP each year until 1988. lJ  This
situation was dramatically reversed in 1989 when a decline in workers,
remittances, due to economic difficulties in the coastal countries,
combined with weak export revenues and rapid growth of imports, especially
of capital goods for the public investment program, resulted in a widening
V/   Meud asandine,,rdeffetivexcahaeratewuas 1OO in1980,SSin 1985,80in 1988,and7S
in 19.
9/)   See Table 6. The data on pris wor obtied from two differet sourn: SocicW des Fms Textiles
(SOFITMQ publicatons and World DBank, SEDES (1987) staff oetmates. Whiloe ru ar differencs in
the estimates fom these two sources for the two yeas for which the ris overap (1995186 ad
1986/8, the diffencs ar minor.
1/    A pan of the overll balo of paymens defici has in offec ban 'finaned" by a onatiwou accumulation
of anran on officid extena debt svie due to te fi  reoumrc mostait



of the current account deficit to an unprecedented 17.3 percent of GDP.
The deterioration, however, proved to be temporary, largely thanks to a
sharp recovery in 1990 of gold and cotton export volumes and a
deceleration of imports linked to the public investment program.  The
terms of trade improved and were not affected by the Gulf crisis in the
latter half of the year since Durkina Faso had placed most of its orders
for petroleum producte at prices prevailing before August 1990. Although
the current account deficit thus narrowed to 14.5 percent of GDP, the
improvement was not enough to prevent a further small loss of official
reserves which declined to 4.5 months of imports by the end of 1990.
a*   The Structural Adiustment Strateav
19.         Since a change in Government in August 1983, the authorities
pursued policies inspired by central planning and marxism. The private
sector was discouraged by confiscatory measures and political interference
in the management of enterprises.   Domestic and external trade were
increasingly controlled. In 1984, the Government launched a program of
development which aimed to mobilize rural and urban people to construct
public infrastructure. This initiative was followed by an ambitious first
five-year plan (1986-90) which included a number of large economically
inviable projects. The interventionist policies contributed to lagging
fiscal revenues which led the Government to implement, in 1985 and 1986,
austerity budgets which included a 12 percent cut in nominal civil
servants' wages. In the social sectors, the Government sought to improve
the education and health status of the population by aggressive
vaccination and literacy campaigns; these, however, could not be sustained
because of a lack of resources and institutional weaknesses.   The
authorities also actively promoted environmental conservation and the role
of women in development.
20.         Following a change in Government in late 1987, the authorities
became it.creasingly conscious of the limits of their dirigiste approach to
development. The dialogue on economic management issues with the Bank
begun during an economic mission in 1988.  As the fiscal, balance of
payments, and economic situation worsened dramatically in 1989, the
Government accelerated the preparation of reforms aimed at liberalizing
the economy, increasing the private sector role in development, and
improving the management of public resources. A Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) was drafted by the Government in late 1989, and included, in
particular, an initial definition of the reform packages which would form
the basis for programs supported by Bank adjustment operations.   The
authorities have assumed much of the initiative and responsibility for the
formulation of the reform program.    Significantly,  the structural
adjustment program was the subject of public debate at meetings in mid-
1990, to which all political and economic groups were invited. Because of
the extensive consensus-building which the authorities chose to undertake,
negotiations on the PFP were concluded only in December 1990.
21.         The overriding objectives of the first-year PFP, considered by
the Bank Board meeting as the Committee of the Whole in early 1991, are to
raise the standard of living of the population through broad-based
amployment and income growth and to lay the foundation for sustainable
economic and social development. The Government is aiming for economic
growth of about 4 percent per annum while strengthening public finances
and the balance of payments. The Government has adopted an appropriate
fiscal policy stance the aim of which is to contain public consumption so
as to promote public and private savings and foster private initiative and
investment. At the same time, it will increase revenues through improved
collection performance and expanded tax coverage. The program aimed at a
settlement of all external arrears In 1991, largely with debt-forgiveness
and rescheduling on Toronto terms, and a resolution of internal arrears by
1993. Given Burkina Paso's exchange rate arrangement, containing domestic
inflation will be essential for improved international competitiveness and



- 7 -
better growth prospects in the long term. Because of the tight fiscal
position, the Government is pursuing a prudent external debt management
policy: it will contract or guarantee only concessional loans, with the
exception of short-term trade credits and loans arising from Paris Club
rescheduling.
22.         Starting in 1990 the Government made good progress on key
budjetary issues and in implementing structural reforms set out in the
PFP: elimination of most price controls, liberalization of commerce,
elimination of export taxes, and easing of trade regulations.   The
consolidated fiscal deficit (excluding grants), wihich averaged 13 percent
of GDP in 1986-88, shrunk to 7.6 percent of GDP in 1990 and the Government
has adopted strong measures to effect a further decline in 1991. In the
1991 budget military expenditures have been substantially reduced,
personnel costs are smaller in nominal terms than in 1990, despite a
substantial increase in the number of primary school teachers, and student
stipends have been reduced. The Government has also moved to improve the
productivity of public investments by giving priority to rehabilitation
and maintenance, strengthening project selection, and dropping several
large  uneconomic  projects.    Several public  enterprises  have  been
liquidated or sold, and steps in a program to accomplish substantial
divestiture had been taken. Key reforms (including the restructuring of
the banking system) have also begun to encourage private sector and export
growth .  These and other reforms constitute the basis for a program
supported by SAL I, which was approved by the Bank's Board in June 1991.
23.         SAL I supports reforms in two broad areas: (i) increased
efficiency of public resource use through a restructuring of budgetary
expenditures, improved management of the civil service, and better
programming and monitoring of public investments, and (ii) establishment
of an enabling environment for private sector activities through a
comprehensive package of banking sector reforms, public enterprise
privatization, liberalization of pricing, marketing, and external trade
regulations, and reforms of the legal and regulatory framework affecting
investment, commercial relations, and employment.
24.         Bank assistance strategy to Burkina Faso was discussed by the
Board on February 4, 1992.  In line with this strategy, the proposed
Agriculture SECAL seeks to reinforce policy measures initiated under SAL
I and to provide for their concrete application to the agricultural
sector. Among the issues of direct relevance to the SECAL, the program
supported by SAL I provides for:
-     improved management and monitoring of public resources and
enhanced efficiency of public resource use through: (a)
consolidation of all state resources and expenditures in a
single document to be annexed to the government's budget, (b)
preparation of consolidated annual public investment budgets
within a framework of a three-year rolling public investment
program, (c) a reduction in extra-budgetary operations, and
(d) a reduction in the number of special treasury accounts;
-     enlarging  the  scope  for  private  sector  activities  in
production and distribution through: (a) abolition of
commercial and distribution monopolies with the exception of
imports of petroleum products and rice, (b) simplification of
licensing  requirements   for  engaging   in  trade,   (c)
liberalization of local trade, (d) elimination of price
controls on locally produced goods, and (e) implementation of
a phased program of import liberalization.



C.    Growth Prosoects and NconolMc MUtlook.
25.         In the medium-term, assuming reasonably favorable climatic
conditions and a continuing small improvement in the terms of trade,
Burkina's economic growth can reach about 4 percent per annum, i.e.
slightly faster than the population growth rate which is estimated at 3.3
percent per annum. The formidable constraints to development, however,
are not amenable to rapid change in a medium-term perspective: improved
soil, water, and biomass resource management can affect agricultural
output only gradually; reduction of population growth can only occur in
the longer term  if the Government's population policy is effectively
implemented; only gradual progress can be made in increasing human
capital, and hence labor productivity of the working population; and
exploitation of new mineral deposits (gold, zinc, copper) can only make
small contributions to overall growth. Moreover, the economy is highly
vulnerable to drought and to economic conditions in C8te d'Ivoire and
Ghana because of the importance of workers' remittances.
26.         Nevertheless, several factors favor per capita income growth
in the medium terms a hard-working and disciplined population; a domestic
market approaching 10 million people; and manufacturing opportunities in
the local and regional markets. Given appropriate incentives, there is
room for expansion of private sector activity in both traditional and
market-oriented agriculture (cotton, oil seeds, fruits, and vegetables)
and related processing and service industries; and in small-scale
productive and commercial enterprises in construction materials, services
such as repair facilities, and tourism. For the lonoer-term there is
reason for cautious optimism because the Government is a leader in the
Sahel in addressing environmental degradation, the role of women in
development, and population growth.
27.         Economic projections of the most likely development scenario
in 1992-2000--involving normal weather; more efficient investment, in part
due to a rapid improvement in the private business climate; a continuous
expansion of exports (including, after 1995, exploitation of significant
zinc deposits); a slow recovery in workers' remittances; a relative
decrease in public consumption; a containment of imports through gradual
import-substitution and improved external competitiveness; debt relief;
and an increase in external capital flows in response to the
implementation of the adjustment program--show modest GDP growth of about
4 percent per annum for the rest of the decade. The achievement of this
target is predicated on the capacity of the economy to generate resources
for rehabilitation and new investment. The expansion of Industry and
services and, to a lesser extent, of agriculture, is predicated -on a
revival of private sector activity in response to improved incentives.
28.         Based on these assumptions, which also formed the basis for
the macroeconomic framework agreed upon in the context of the first-year
PFP, the current account deficit would decline to about 12 percent of GDP
by the end of the decade.   After taking account of disbursements on
existing and expected project-related commitments and debt relief
available to Burkina on Toronto terms, the external financing needs
average US$114 million per annum in 1992-93. About US$10 million annually
would be financed through Burkina Paso's a-cess to the IMF SAF and a
further US$51 million annually through IDA support for the adjustment
program (SAL I, the Transport 8ECAL approved by the Board in February
1992, and the proposed Agriculture SCAL). The remaining resources are
expected to become available through cofinancing from both multilateral
and bilateral donors. If external resources are mobilized to cover these
needs during the 1992-93 period, the net per capita disbursements to
Burkina of Official Development Assistance (ODA) projected for 1993
(US$44) would still be less, in nominal terms, than the net per capita
disbursements of ODA to other sahelian countries in 1987 (US$59).  A



growth rate in external aid flows (grant and concessional loan
disbursements) of about 6.8 percent per annum in US dollar nominal terms,
which would be adequate to cover Burkina's financing needs up till the
year 2000, is therefore realistic if the Government continues to maintain
an appropriate macroeconomic framework and implement structural policy
reforms.
II.   T8E AGRICULTURAL SECTOR DuEVY MON3  STRiC3EY
A.   Sector 8ackaround
29.         The structure and performance of Burkina' a agricultural sector
are largely a function of the agro-ecological conditions prevalent in the
country. Water and soil resources are limited and fragile. Over 50% of
the country is covered with poor ferralitic soils. Rainfall is low and
irregular and highly susceptible to runoff. It varies from an annual
average of 350Omm in the northern Sahel to over 1000mm in the more resource
rich South-West.
30.         It is estimated that rain-fed cropping covers about 35% of the
country's surface, while pasture land makes up another 45%. About 30,000
km2 (11% of total surface) are cultivated yearly. Agricultural production
is mainly rain-fed. Irrigation accounts for only 1% of total cultivated
area, although the irrigated surface has almost doubled since 1982.
Traditional coarse grains (millet, sorghum and to some extent maize) cover
about 80% of the cultivated area. Food crops (mainly cereals) account for
over 45% of agricultural CDP, followed by livestock (about 28%). Cotton
is the most important cashcrop and provides almost 40% of export revenues.
Livestock is the second most important agricultural export (mainly to the
coastal countries), accounting for about 10% of total export earnings.
Other cashcrops of growing importance are groundnuts, sesame, and off-
season vegetables. Off-season vegetables are mainly cultivated on small
irrigated perimeters where they have increasingly been replacing paddy as
higher value added crops.
31.         Rapid degradation of the natural resource base on the Central
Plateau and in the Sahel region on the one hand, and the elimination of
onchocerciasis in the West and the South on the other hand, are provoking
a rapid shift in Burkina' s agricultural production structure. Pressure on
pasture lands and degradation of the bio-mass in the Sahel are leading to
a move from pastoral to agropastoral activities. Thus, crop production is
becoming more important in an area traditionally dominated by pastoralism.
Low rainfall and fragile soils, however, prevent both rapid agricultural
and livestock development in this part of the country. The onchocerciasis
freed areas in the South and South-West are the main receiving zones of
migrants from the densely populated Central Plateau which is suffering
from  rapid  degradation  of  its  natural  resource  base  due  to
overutilization. Hence, the West and the South are the areas with the
highest rate of agricultural and livestock development. Currently about
95% of cotton and over 50% of cereals are grown there.
32.         Emigration into the onchocerciasis zones is organized by
government agencies such as the Volta Valley Authority (AVV--Amenagement
des Vallees des Volta). Studies show, however, that the ALw-sponsored
immigration represented only a fraction to the onchocerciasis zones.
Instead, a significant portion of emigration is spontaneous movement to
areas of higher potential. Most of the new settlement areas inadequately
protect their environment, and consequently, environmental degradation is
increasing rapidly.



- 10 -
S.   Recent Performance
33.         The growth rate of the agricultural sector was a high 6.1
percent per annum in 1982-88 followed by declines in 1989 and 1990 (-2.9
and -3.4, respectively).  Growth in the agricultural sector during the
1982-88 was driven by increases in crop (as opposed to livestock)
production. Although the strong performance of the agricultural sector
during the 1980s reflects relatively favorable rainfall patterns (except
for the drought of years of 1983 and 1984), significant expansion of
cultivated area, productivity gains, slowly increasing diversification,
and  regional  (intra-country)   specialization  have  contributed  to
agricultural growth. The remarkable expansion of cultivated area (overall
average annual rate of almost 5S and as high as 18% for crops like cotton)
was partly rendered possible by the eradication of onchocerciasis in the
more fertile and higher rainfall areas of the South and South-west,
although further extension onto marginal lands in the North and East took
also place.   In all areas of the country, reduction of the fallow period
was also observed.
34.         The most significant growth in output during the 1980s was
achieved in the cotton sector (see Table 10, Annex I). Output of seed
cotton almost tripled from an average of 66,000 tons in the early 1980s to
about 170,000 tons at the end of the decade, turning Burkina into the
third largest producer of West Africa. Burkina has a clear comparative
advantage in cotton production, with its production costs ranking second
lowest in the region (behind Mali). Further increases in productivity and
cuts in production costs are, however, necessary if Burkina is to keep its
competitive edge in the international market.
35.         The rapid development of cotton production has had positive
effects on overall agricultural and rural development in the South-West
and to some extent the West and the South. Cereals production in these
regions has particularly benefitted from this development. Over a quarter
of national cereals production is currently produced in rotation with
cotton.  Productivity gains and higher production have been achieved
through the residual effect of fertilizer applied to cotton and the
adoption of improved farming practices. Other external economies from the
development of cotton production include the promotion of literacy
programs through the organization of farmers into village groups to market
cotton and the development of social infrastructure through the
reinvestment of village group incomes from cotton marketing.
36.         The significant overall increase in cereals production during
the 19809 (average annual growth rate of 6.5% between 1980-1990) was to a
large extent driven by production increases in the South-West. During
years of adequate rainfall Burkina is self-sufficient in millet, sorghum
and maize, but increasing quantities of rice (100,000 tons in 1990) are
imported, as a result of growing demand and stagnating production.
Considerable growth has also been achieved in the production of groundnuts
which are produced for the local market and increasingly also for exports
to the sub-region. Groundnuts have been successfully introduced in areas
where cereals production was previously declining. This helped prevent
further productivity decreases in cereals production thanks to the
residual effect of fertilizer applied to groundnuts.            Groundnut
production grew at an average annual rate of 10% during the 1980s.
C. Constraints to Sustainable Growth
37.         Although the performance of BurkinaIs agricultural sector over
the past decade has been impressive for a Sahelian country, economic
projections indicate that the high agricultural growth rates of the 1980.
will not be sustained. Even with the policy reforms supported by this
operation, slower agricultural sector growth (4%) is expected in the 1990s
as the potential for expanding cultivated areas sharply declines. The



- 11 -
level of agricultural technology remains low and extensive.   Farming
practices continue to put undue stress on the natural resource base thus
seriously imperiling sustainable growth in the long run. As pointed out
above, much of the sector's expansion during the past decade has in fact
occurred at the expense of the environment.
38.         The causes of the risk to sustainable sector growth go beyond
extensive land use, low technology and environmentally hostile farming
practices. The pricing, marketing, and trade policies pursued in Burkina
may have had on balance a negative impact on natural resources, in
particular in the Central Plateau where cereal production is still
expanding to marginal lands instead of being intensified in the South and
Southwest.   In cereal markets, trade regulations  (traders licenses,
provincial trade barriers, pan-territorial wholesale prices, road taxes
etc) have considerably increased transaction costs between surplus and
deficit areas. When prices are beyond their purchasing power, poor rural
households extend their cultivated areas under food crops into marginal
areas. This impact is exactly the opposite of what would be desirable to
restore soils in the already very degraded areas of the Central Plateau,
that is long bush or cultivated fallow, with a comparative advantage for
livestock production instead of cereals.   This perverse effect of
Government market interventions is also felt in the surplus areas where
cereal prices, and consequently returns to labor, are too low to encourage
the development of more intensive production.
39.         Furthermore, subsidies for domestic rice production may be
encouraging inefficient use of water resources. The increased demand for
rice has led to the development of several irrigation perimeters, most of
them with Government or donor support.  Even at the high productivity
levels reached in some of them (nine to ten tons of paddy per hectare),
rice production is uneconomic if water resources were priced at their
scarcity value.   The subsidies are encouraging an inefficient use of
scarce water resources. Interestingly, on private small-scale irrigation
schemes which do not benefit from the subsidies, farmers have switched
from rice to higher value crops for exports (vegetables).
40.         It is also important to question the impact of cotton pricing
and marketing policy (para 78) which has been a very strong incentive for
the expansion of production.   On the one hand,  favorable relative
cot.ton/cereals prices have supported the continued application of chemical
fertilizer, thereby maintaining soil productivity. On the other hand,
farm survey results suggest that very little organic matter is restituted
to the soils, and that crop rotations are not adhered to. The long-term
impact on soil fertility of such practices could be quite negative. Even
while this result is only an indirect effect of pricing and marketing
policies, it draws the attention of linking pricing policies to other
measures, such as the delivery of good extension services to prevent
natural resource degradation.
41.         Burkinabe producers have shown an ability to adapt to major
changes in the environment (particularly degradation of natural resources)
and develop now indigenous technologies. But neither the level of these
technologies nor the rate at which they are currently adopted are
sufficient to maintain the capital of productive assets and support
sustainable growth.  Although fertilizer consumption has significantly
increased over the 1980., its application remains highly concentrated in
the cotton areas. High yielding seeds continue to be limited to cotton
and to some extent groundnuts, as varieties appropriate for the ecological
conditions in Burkina are not yet available for crops such as millet and
sorghum. Mechanization (mainly animal traction) has progressed, albeit at
a much slower pace than in some other African countries including Sahelian
countries such as Senegal and Mali. Only about 3% of farmers possess a
complete traction unit, while about 25% have partial units. About 50% of
cotton producers use animal traction.



- 12 -
D. Current Sector DeveloDment 8trateoy
42.         Government efforts to reduce the impact of the constraints to
sustainable growth include major undertakings aimed at improving the
management of the countryIs renewable natural resources, policy reforms in
agricultural input (especially fertiL.zer) policies and efforts to develop
and promote the use of cheaper fertilizers, agricultural research, and the
establishment of a national agricultural extension service.
43.         Environmental Management. The ..mpact on resource degradation
of its demographic growth and the spontaneous settlement in the
onchocerciasis zones is being openly addressed by Burkinabe leaders, and
the country stands out amongst the Sahelian countries of West Africa as
the pioneer for initiating operational approaches to alter the trend in
renewable natural resource degradation, in particular since the early
1980's. Four major initiatives have been taken. In 1983, the Government
launched a program called the "three fights" to contend against
uncontrolled bushfires, livestock movements, and tree cutting. A National
Plan against Desertification (1986) and a law on Agrarian and Land Tenure
Reorganization (revised in 1991) have been prepared. The preparation of
a National Environmental Management Program has been completed and is in
its implementation stage with major donor assistance, including IDA, and
more recently, a National Environmental Action Plan has also been
prepared.
44.         The National Environmental Action Plan is a global strategic
framework for the management of natural resources. It contains four main
components for which detailed investment plans have been prepared:
-     the management of national natural resource endowments which
includes a national forestry action plan, a soil cartography
program,  regional  planning,  and  studies/analysis  on
subterranean water table;
-     land manaaement proaram includes the campaign against tree
cutting, and the national land management projects such as the
national environment management program;
-     program to improve the conditions of life in rural areas
includes projects to develop secondary townships, village well
construction,  projects  to  construct  schools,  markets,
dispensaries and village access roads, as well as an urban
component which aims at addressing the impact of a high rate
of urbanization on the destruction of natural resources;
-     environment awareness and training program includes mass
environmental information campaigns, training programs in
primary, secondary, and higher levels on environmental issues,
and technical assistance to the private and public sectors on
environmental management
45.         Thy National Mwvironsmntal Manaon#sent Proara  is designed as
a long-term effort to stop and reverse the proceas of land degradation in
order to secure agricultural growth, to restore biodiversity, and to
manage forests and wildlife in a sustainable manner. The program has an
innovative bottom-up approach.   It supports community land management
plans conceived with formally organized rural communities that have been
granted secure rights (through the Agrarian and Land Tenure Law) over land
and land resources. With support by decentralized government and non-
government services, these communities decide ultimately on actions to be
carried out on their lands.
46.         Concomitant to the Government's efforts, tremendous momentum
has built-up amongst the rural population in certain areas to reclaim



- 13-
degraded lands and protect their resource endowment. The joint efforts of
the population and the Government have led to substantial support from the
donor community, including non-governmental institutions (NGOs), with the
result that many pilot operations are underway, and valuable experience is
available.
47.         Fertilizer Policies.  With IDA assistance, the Government has
improved fertilizer policies and the structure of fertilizer use by
removing subsidies, identifying and providing cheaper fertilizers, and
eliminating supply inadequacies.   Through policy reforms, the project
focuses increasingly on the domestic sources of supply (animal manure,
other organic matter, rock phosphate) and, where economically justified,
on cheaper kinds of imported fertilizers. The Government'e fertilizer
program includes field trials, a phosphate acidulation unit, credit to
farmers for fertilizer purchases, rock phosphate production, as well as
studies to (a) analyze the impact of subsidy removal on fertilizer
consumption and cereals production and (b) the technical and economic
feasibility of existing processes for local production of chemical
fertilizers.   Results on fertilizer research have been encouraging:
researchers have come up with fertilizer formulas for cereals production
for different agroclimatic zones, and the results of composting work have
generally been positive. Detailed technical and economic analysis are in
process to determine the profitability of these innovations before they
are passed onto extension for diffusion to farmers.
48.         Aoricultural Research Proa.   Under this program,  the
Government established a national agricultural research organization (the
Institut National d'Ntudes et de Recherche Agricole--INERA) and research
network that plans and executes agreed priority research programs that are
in line with government policies regarding national food security and
natural resource management. Research is farmer oriented (responsive to
farmers' needs), and allows for better coordination in the formulation and
execution of national and international agricultural research program.
Furthermore, linkages between research and extension services have been
strengthened.
49.         Aaricultural Extension ProaRam.   The Government, with IDA
assistance, introduced a T and V system (training and visit) adapted to
Burkina s environment, thereby ensuring all farmers (male and female)
equal access to advisory services, and extension staff access to
appropriate training. The program promotes and organizes communication
between national agricultural research staff and extension staff, and
has: improved services to the livestock sector, introduced a grassroots
functional literacy program, strengthened the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock s organization and management by developing an in-house training
facility, and developed an effective information aystem to ease the data
collection and management by extension workers and trainers.
50.         The Government recognizes that its efforts to remove the
constraints to sustainable sectoral growth (improved soil, water and
biomass resource management, agricultural research, and improvements in
the quality and responsiveness of extension services) are neither likely
to lead to rapid improvement in agricultural productivity, nor are they
complete.   To complement these efforts, therefore, the Government has
designed a medium term agricultural sector strategy.   The strategy
emphasizes the elimination of the restrictive regulatory environment
(through pricing and marketing liberalization) and unproductive public
investments. The strategy aims at achieving sustainable sectoral growth
through modernization, diversification and increased private sector
participation.



- 14 -
3. The Nedium Term Agricultural Seltor Strateav
51.         As outlined in the SAL I Letter of Development Policy and the
PFP the Government's sectoral objectives are threefold: (i) to modernize
and diversify agricultural production; (ii) to increase food security and,
(iiI) to improve natural resource management.
52.         To pursue the above objectives, the government'a current
policies in agriculture (defined as a result of discussions on the PFP,
SAL I, Environmental Management (PNGT) as well as the proposed
Agricultural SECAL) focus on:
-     liberalizing prices, domestic marketing, and international
trade of agricultural products;
-     reducing the role of the public (parastatal) sector in the
marketing of agricultural products and abandoning all attempts
at stabilizing the prices of agricultural products;
-     enhancing the security of land tenure to ensure improved
management and conservation of natural resources by the rural
population;
-     fostering private investment and employment creation in rural
areas; and
-     improving efficiency  in public  investment  and recurrent
expenditures by establishing clear sectoral investment
priorities which will focus on activities that are
complementary to and supportive of private sector investment
such as agricultural research, extension services, and
environmental management;
53.         As an integral part of the Agricultural sector adjustment
program, the Government has prepared action programs for the key
subsectors, including cereals, cotton, fruit and vegetables, livestock and
oilseeds.    In addition, the Government has prepared a  long term
environmental action plan, which is supported by the IDA Environmental
Management Credit--cr. 2229-BUR (PNGT).
UXI. * lWIgM-=R AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTIM
A.  Objectives of the Sector Adiustment Proaram
54.         The proposed credit would support the Government' a medium-term
sectoral adjustment program and hence promote sustainable growth in the
agricultural sector. The major objectives of the program ares
(a)   to improve the competitiveness of key sub-sectors while
ensuring sustainability of the production systems;
(b)   to reduce the mandate of the cereals marketing board (OFNAMCR)
and eliminate public attempts at stabilizing price., to
streamline the interventions of government ministries in the
agricultural sector, and to improve the management of public
institutions in rural areas;
(c)   to  secure the  incentive environment for increaseod food
security;
(d)   to promote a facilitating environment for private sector
participation in production and marketing.
55.         To pursue the above objectives the program would focus on
specific actions in three crucial areas: pricing and marketing reforms in
key sub-sectors such as cereals, cotton, livestock and oilseeds;
institutional reforms to streamline public sector involvement in
agricultural research and extension and public policies affecting the
production and marketing of agricultural products; improved management of
sectoral public expenditure. In addition, the proposed Food Security and



- 15 -
Nutrition Project (FY 92) would support the implementation of a food
security action plan, thus directly contributing to achieving one of the
oovernment's primary goals for the medium term.
56.         The important issue of natural resource management and related
land tenure questions are addressed under the separate ongoing Bank
Environmental Management Project which aims at making rural communities
responsible for the management of natural resources within their
territory, while benefitting from public assistance in the form of
technical and financial support. Given this project (PNGT), the sectoral
adjustment credit would not include these issues.
B. The Poliec A@enda
Cereals Policv
57.         Current Marketing and Pricina Policies: From 1983 through the
1990/91 agricultural campaign, consumer and producer prices of the main
cereals were determined administratively by the Direction des Prix of the
Ministry of Commerce.   The system neither allowed for differences in
quality, seasonal availability of cereals, nor for differentials in
transportation costs.  Observations on 25 markets across the country,
however, showed that official producer and consumer prices were generally
only adhered to by public institutions such as the cereals marketing board
(OFNACER) and the Caisse Generale de Per6quation (cGP) in the case of
purchases of locally produced paddy.
58.         Traditional Cereals. OFNACER has a dual mandate: to guarantee
official prices of coarse grains (millet, sorghum, maize) through market
interventions at the producer and the consumer levels in normal years; and
to maintain and manage a national food security stock. To these ends,
OFNACER maintains stabilization and food security stocks and it intervenes
at both the wholesale and retail levels. During the 1980s, OFNACER sales
averaged about 44,000 tons yearly, while purchases on the local market
amounted to about 23,000 tons yearly, the rest being secured through
imports or food aid. Food Aid (typically wheat flour, rice, cooking oil,
and sugar) is mainly imported (usually duty free) by NGOs. Until now, the
monitoring of the amount of food aid has been weak while policies on its
distribution (target group, conditions of sale, or free distribution) have
been the prerogative of bilateral donors and NGOs.
59.         OFNACER's attempts at stabilizing prices of local cereals,
however, had little effect on market prices for two reasons: OFNACER's
actions were too small to have a significant impact on prices (OINACER
handles less than 1S% of marketed output) and its purchases frequently
occurred too late because official prices were often announced late and
because  of  OFNACER's  cashflow  problems.    Nevertheless  OPNACER's
interventions have often had a destabilizing effect on private sector
cereals marketing, as its interventions have increased uncertainty and
invited speculation. in addition, ONACFR's operations have been costly
as the margins allowed for by the officially set prices did not permit
OFNACER to cover its full costs. OFNACER has been running significant
financial losses which have mainly been financed by foreign assistance.
During the 1989/90 campaign, for example OFNACER's total operating costs
(excluding the cost of cereals purchased) amounted to 845.8 million CFAF,
while net revenues from sales only amounted to 33.1 million CFAF.
60.         There are no regulations prohibiting traders to market cereals
from one region to another. However, between 1983 and 1989, regional
authorities frequently prohibited movement of cereals from their region
during local cereals shortages, as determined by them at any point in
time. In addition, traders who sell to OFNACER are not allowed to deliver



- 16 -
their goods to OFNACER warehouses in regions other than where they have
purchased them. Further, (until 1991) traders were required to be members
of publicly established traders' associations (groupements d'int6rot
6conomique--GXB) in order to obtain a trader's license. This situation
negatively affected intra-country trade, as uncertainty and a certain
degree of arbitrariness persisted. In addition, although information on
actual market prices has been collected by OFNACER over the past three
years, this information has not been made available to the public.
Availability of this information would likely have increased trade between
surplus and deficit regions, as opportunities for arbitrage could have
been recognised more widely.
61.         Ric.   While OFNACER purchases traditional cereals,  the
recently established (1991) Socift6 National. pour la Collecte et le
Traltement du Rix (SONACOR) has the mandate to purchase and process
locally produced rice.   Prior to the 1990/91 agricultural campaign,
SONACOR's parent company, the CGP, was responsible for collecting and
processing locally produced paddy, as well as importing rice. Currently,
CGP maintains the monopoly over rice imports which it sells to wholesalers
for local distribution at the same price as locally produced rice.
Further wholesaling and all retailing of imported and locally produced
rice is handled by the private sector.
62.         Although SONACOR has the obligation to collect all locally
produced paddy offered for sale at the official price, it doas not have an
official monopoly over paddy collection and processing.  However, the
official price structure currently applied to paddy (85 CFAF/kg) and rice
(170 CFAF/kg) is such that it prevents the private sector from collecting
and processing locally produced paddy. Private processing of paddy is
thus limited to the quantities produced for home consumption, for sale in
local rural markets, or on sub-contract from CGP. At the current price
structure, SONACOR and its parent company CGP, run a loss on the
collection and processing of local paddy and subsequent distribution of
rice. In 1989/90 CGP's loss amounted to about 19 CFAF/kg of rice, but
losses very likely increased in 1990/91, as SONACOR's milling costs are
higher than those of the private processors sub-contracted by CGP in
1989/90. As the quantity of local rice handled by SONACOR and CGP is
currently low (average annual rice production of about 5000 tons) the
total loss from locally produced paddy is not very large (below 100
million CFAF), and is financed by the margin which CGP retains from rice
imports.
63.         Trade ReQulations.  Imports and exports of local cereals (the
coarse grains) require prior authorization. The CGP (and through the CGP,
SOSUCO and the Grand Moulins du Burkina (GHB)) has the monopoly on the
import of rice, sugar, and wheat.   Wheat production in Burkina is
insignificant and the domestic price which incorporates an implicit import
tax is set without regard to the cost of local production. The domestic
price of rice is set irrespective of world market prices and taxes on rice
imports are extremely low as they are based on a "valeur mecurialew
(minimum import value). As a result, the COGP, which has the monopoly to
import rice, generally retains a significant profit margin on these
imports. As losses incurred by the collection and processing of local
paddy are much smaller, these revenues have generally been used to finance
extra-budgetary expenditures, including uneconomic investments: the
current border price equivalent of imported rice in Ouagadougou is about
CFAF 117/kg, while CGP sells imported rice to wholesalers at about CFAF
153/kg. Imports in 1990 amounted to 100,000 tons, which at the exchange
rate of US$ 1 to CPAF 250, would leave CGP's gross margin at over US$ 14
million..



- 17 -
Prososed Polil= Chances:
64.         Policy changes for the cereals eubsector was, prepared by the
cereals working group of the preparatory group for the Agricultural SECAL.
The centerpiece of the work of this group is the "CQrQeals Plan" which
provides for measures to JntX aliat intensify, diversify, and transform
local cereals; introduce and/or promote agricultural products (especially
maize) for which Burkina may have a comparative advantage; improve the
mAnagement of food aid and rationalize the use of food aid counterpart
funds; put in place an incitative environment (including the provision of
inputs and rural credit) to promote the intensification of production;
promote a greater private sector role in the collection, storage, and
commercialization in both the domestic market and in subregional markets;
and create an institutional focal point for the management of cereals
policy and food security.
65.         Price reaulations.  To allow for a more efficient allocation
of resources and to encourage domestic trade of cereals between surplus
and deficit regions, the Government has decrided to liberalize producer and
consumer prices of cereals and abolish public attempts at stabilizing the
prices of all grains. An important first step in this direction was taken
on March 28, 1991 when the text establishing price control procedures for
locally produced goods was abolished by decree.
66.         gFNACR.  The Government has further decided that OFNACERs
role would be limited to the maintenance and management of a national
security stock of a maximum size of 50,000 tons, the management of food
aid stocks and the commercial sale of program food aid. This position is
strongly endorsed by IDA and the other donors.  The objective of the
security stock is to stock sufficient coarse grains to ensure adequate
domestic supplies in case of drought until the arrival of food aid and
emergency imports.  50,000 tons is the amount of cereals required to
maintain a population of about 2 million (the number of Burkinabe
estimated to be at risk during periods of severe drought), at a reduced
cereals consumption of 150kg per capita per annum. The assumed reaction
time (the time required for food imports or aid to reach cereals markets)
is 60 days.
67.         During non-drought years OFNACER's market interventions would
be limited to the purchase and sale of the quantities necessary to ensure
adequate technical rotation of the security stock. As cereals can only be
stocked for an average of three years, a third of the security stock would
have to be renewed each year, requiring OFNAhER to sell and purchase about
16,700 tons annually.  Under the adjustment program, OFNACER would be
required to effect all purchases and sales at market prices and limit its
activities to wholesaling. OFNACER would purchase its cereals in surplus
regions through competitive bidding. It would sell mainly in the northern
deficit regions.
68.         Burkina's private cereals markets are generally competitive
and relatively efficient. Exceptions may be found in certain deficit
areas of Yatenga and the Sahel where lack of infrastructure, difficult
access during the rainy season, lack of purchasing power and low
population densities often make it unremunerative for private traders to
intervene. OFNACER would be required to satisfy the markets in these
areas through its sales in connection with the technical rotation of the
security stock. OFNACER would, however, only be called upon to satisfy
solvent demand and intervene at the wholesale level. Targeted sales at
subsidized prices, if necessary, would be handled by the CNLES (Comit6
National  de  Lutte  des  Effets  contre  la  Secheresse,  the  national
organization responsible for coordination and distribution of emergency
food aid), MOs, and local authorities. OFNACER would furnish them the
necessary cereals and be remunerated for it through the common food aid
counterpart fund or directly by the Government.  Rules which specify



- 18 -
modalities of OFNACER intervention in the market when buying and selling
to maintain the national security stock would be d fined in a contract
plan between OFNACER, the Government, and donors supporting OFNACER.
69.         To identify regions where solvent demand is not adequately
served by the private market, and to promote efficient private sector
trade in cereals, a strong laformation system must be established. As
part of this eystem, OFNACER would continue to be responsible for the
collection of market price information, which would be made available to
the public on a regular basis through communication by mass media. The
CNLES would be made responsible for establishing emergency food aid plans,
based on the information available from an integrated Early Warning
Systems (MWS).  Measures to improve the performance of these EWSs are
provided for under a proposed Food Security and Nutrition Project.
70.         The new (reduced) mandate of OFNACER would require an internal
reorganization and a reduction of its infrastructure. The reorganization
would entail both, a small reduction in staff (currently 330, which is
only marginally excessive for the management of a security stock of 50,000
tons) and a geographic redistribution of OFNACER centers and security
stocks.   In addition,  a substantial reduction in OFZACER's storage
capacity (currently bver 130,000 tons) and automobile fleet would be
required. OFNACER would also dispose of its automobile repair shop and
all retail stores. Details on OFNACER's internal reorganization (and the
costs) are being worked out by the Government.
71.         OFNACER would be transformed from an EPIC (itablissoement
public & charactore industriel et commercial) into a SI (Socift& d'Etat)
and details of its obligations towards the Government and the Government's
obligations towards OFNACER would be spelled out in a contract plan.
OFUACER's financial resources would be clearly established as would its
remuneration. The contract plan would be drawn up for one campaign only,
to allow for further improvements after a one year experience.  The
Government has prepared a draft contract plan which it has submitted to
IDA and other donors and was discussed during negotiations. This contract
plan will enter into effect at the end of 1992.
72.         OFNACER would no longer have access to individual donor
accounts, as its budget would be agreed upon and financed jointly by
concerned donors and the Government. Within the agreed budget, OFNACER
would present invoices for rendered services to an Oversight Committee
(consisting   of  donors  which  financially  support  O  ACER  and
representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Agriculture) which would reimburse OFNACER. All government financing for
OFNACER would be budgetized and the entire OFNACER budget (including donor
financing and Government financing) would be annexed to the annual
Government budget.  This procedure would greatly facilitate OFEACEP.'s
financial management and render it significantly more transparent.
OFNACER would present yearly budgets and audited accounts to be approved
by the Oversight Committee and IDA.
73.         Narketina. The Government has realized that free circulation
of cereals within the country is not only important to increase food
security, but that it is also crucial to encourage regional (intre-
country)  specialization in agricultural production.   Therefore, all
barriers hindering free circulation of cereals within the country would be
removed and intra-country trade would be encouraged through regular
provision of price information on markets across the country. Traders
would be granted licenses without being obliged to adhere to publicly
designated traders' associations.
74.         Trde.  The Government also recognizes the important role
which the private sector could play through imports and exports of cereals
during deficit and surplus years. Imports and exports of coarse grains



- 19 -
would, therefore, be liberalized as a condition of effectiveness of this
operation.  The Government wishes, however, to maintain CGP's monopoly on
rice imports to reduce the possibility of import tax evasion, and because
CGP can benefit from significant scale economies and other savings through
government to government purchases.   However, CGP's "profits" (marge)
from rice imports would be budgetized, through the introduction of a
transitional import tariff (para 76) in 1992. In line with the agreement
reached between the Government and IDA (SAL I) to abolish all "valuers
mecuriales" (minimum import values) by 1992, the transitional tariff would
be based on CIT prices. In addition, the Government has undertaken, in
the context of SAL I, to launch a study during 1992 to determine the best
strategy for liberalizing the imports of rice.
75.         A tariff on rice imports is warranted to protect local rice
production.    Although  Burkina's  rice  production  is  currently  not
competitive at international prices there is significant scope for further
cost reductions, through productivity increases in rice production, the
liberalization of paddy prices (which are currently set 15 CFAP/kg higher
than in neighboring countries) and efficiency gains in processing.
76.         Under the agricultural sector adjustment program, therefore,
the Government would guarantee that (i) neither SONACOR nor any other
public institution would obtain the monopoly over paddy collection or
processittg, and (ii) paddy and consumer rice prices will be fully
liberalized. Rice imports, however, would be subject to a transitional
import tariff designed to protect local rice at a nominal rate of about
50% at current international prices and CFAr exchange rate. Given the
volatility of international rice prices, however, the level (as opposed to
the rate) of protection for local rice producers would be maintained
reasonably stable during the production and marketing phases of the
agricultural campaign. To this end, the Government and IDA have reached
agreement on the terms of reference of a study to determine the
feasibility of introducing a variable import levy on rice. The levy would
decline over time but, in any one year, would be reviewed quarterly and
adjusted whenever the CI? reference price of rice (in CFAP) fluctuates by
more than  5 percent.    The recommendations of the study would be
implemented in December 1992 and would be reviewed after six months.
77.          The  proposed  50%  nominal  rate  of  protection--in  the
transitional phase--would leave consumer prices in the major urban areas
around the market prices currently observed, while lowering paddy prices
(which would be liberalized) to about 70 CFAP to 75 CFAF/kg (depending on
milling efficiency) in the west, where most paddy is produced. Under this
price structure private entrepreneurs could engage in commercial
collection and processing of paddy and help render domestic production
more efficient, as their processing costs are expected to be lower than
those of SONACOR. As agreed in the context of SAL I, the Government will:
(a) prepare the terms of reference for a study to determine the best
strategy for privatizing SONACOR, (b) reduce its shares in SONACOR to a
maximum of 25% before July 1, 1993 and (c) provide evidence, judged
satisfactory by IDA, that all direct and indirect subsidies to SONACOR
have been eliminated.       Reducing Government shares in SONACOR and
eliminating all subsidies would be conditions for second and third tranche
releases respectively.
sgns.
78.         The successful development of cotton production during the
1980 was to a large extent the result of an efficient development
strategy. The relatively good management and financial autonomy of the
cotton company, SOP!TSX, have played an important role in ensuring the
prompt delivery of inputs to producers and assuring a secure market for
seedcotton. Marketing arrangements, based on guaranteed prices and cash
payments further enhanced production.



- 20 -
79.         Despite the success of cotton production, analysis of the
current situation reveals the following features: production increases
were obtained largely through more acreage being brought into production
and the guaranteed producer prices; there are considerable differences in
productivity per hectare in different producing regions and, as a general
rule, fewer than 60% of the area under cotton receive the "right" doses of
insecticides; information on production (acreage, productivity, etc)
critical for the smooth management of the cotton campaign (collection,
ginning etc) is often unreliable; and, given the role played by village
groups in the marketing seed cotton, the lack of rigor by these groups in
classifying cotton, imposes additional costs to SOFITEX thus putting
Burkina cotton at a competitive disadvantage in international markets.
Further, many of the village groups are plagued by internal management
problems thus are unable to ensure a better management of the cotton
campaign.
80.         SOFITEX's cotton ginning efficiency is very satisfactory
(currently at 41.25%) and it is expected to improve over time.  As a
result, the factory-gate price of Burkina cotton of CFAF 348/kg compares
favorably with other West African producers.    There  is, however,
considerable scope for productivity increases in the marketing of Burkina
cotton.   The fob price (port of Abidjan) projected to be around CFAF
389/kg for the 1992/93 cotton campaign reveals a much higher cost of
transport than in similarly landlocked countries (such as Mali).
Similarly, the projected average cif price of CFAF 436 reveals that
considerable cost reductions in marketing are feasible.
81.         Measures to Improve Productivity: the Government proposes to
promote the intensification of cotton production while ensuring that the
fertility of the soil is maintained.  To achieve this, the Government
proposes tos ensure the security of land tenure and thereby encourage
producers to apply techniques of land conservation; map out the various
cotton production zones and develop appropriate cotton development
strategies for the zones; and promote the integration of livestock raising
and crop production to ensure more use of organic fertilizers.
82.         In addition, the Government proposes to redouble the efforts
for: gathering more reliable agricultural statistics (including examining
an efficient and a cost-effective means of involving village groups in the
gathering of statistics), closely follow developments in the cotton sector
and continuing adapting the extension services to the particular demands
of the sector, promoting better coordination and collaboration between the
various actors (producers, village groups, extension services, and
SOFITEX) involved in the sector, pursuing cotton research with a view to
improving the profitability of the sector, improving the supply of inputs
(including the promotion of appropriate mechanization) and optimizing
their use, inciting the producers and the village groups to better
claesify cotton by introducing a third quality standard, ensuring the
rigorous classification of seed cotton by confiding the ultimate
responsibility  for  grading  to  SOFITEX.    These  measures  would  be
accompanied with investments which would enhance the productivity of the
sector.  Among the productivity enhancing measures are the modernization
and expansion of SOFITEX s ginning capacity and improved maintenance of
feeder roads (addressed in the Bank-supported Transport SECAL).
83.         The cotton crisis of the mid-1980s and subsequent world price
fluctuations, together with the depreciation of the dollar, significantly
affected the financial viability of Burkina's cotton sector. Furthermore,
the cotton price stabilization scheme managed by the Caisse de
Stabilisation et de Per6quation des produits Agricole (CSPPA) proved non-
viable. Burkina undertook a series of adjustment measures in response to
the sharp fall of world market cotton prices in 1985/86 and 1988/89. The
measures included a reduction of the producer price, elimination of input
subsidies and a series of financial meaoures including the reduction of



- 21 -
SOFTTEX's remuneration on turnover. However, further cost reductions are
needed if Burkina is to maintain its competitiveness at the current
exchange rate and projected world market prices for cotton.    Cotton
producer prices, the remuneration and taxation of the cotton company
(SOFITEX) need to be adjusted periodically to reflect change. in world
market prices.
84.         Along with other export crops (groundnuts, sesame, sheanuts)
cotton is part of a stabilization scheme which is managed by the CSPPA.
The system is based on a fixed producer price which is set irrespective of
world market prices (currently 95 CFAF/kg for lst grade seedcotton). The
stabilization mechanism is defined in an agreement between SOFITEX and
CSPPA whereby SOFITEX's operational budget (5S of gross sales on cotton
and cotton oil seeds) is guaranteed by CSPPA.  CSPPA is subsequently
obligated to cover the difference between SOFITEX's revenues from cotton
exports and actual expenditures. SOFITEX, in turn, pays 75% of its after
tax profits to CSPPA. However, following the collapse of world market
prices in 1985/86, CSPPA was unable to honor its obligations to SOFITEX
and the latterls revenue shortfall (about 10,4 billion CFAF after the
1985/86 and 1986/87 campaign) had to be covered by its own reserves and by
borrowing from the banking system.
85.         The cotton stabilization scheme failed essentially for two
reasonss (i) it was too rigid as producer prices and SOFITEX's operating
budget and commissions were set irrespective of world market prices; (ii)
CSPPA played a dual role as a commercial enterprise (engaged in marketing
and exporting cash crops other than cotton) and manager of the
stabilization fund, but failed to keep separate accounts for these
activities. As a result payments from SOFITEX which should have gone into
the stabilization fund were considered as CSPPA revenues and were taxed by
the Government as such. In addition the funds were partly used to cover
CSPPA's own operational costs, to finance the purchase of large quantities
of sheanuts from traders and to acquire shares in public enterprises in
the name of CSPPA.
86.         Proposed Price stabilixation Schemes  The main objective of
the reforms is to link oroducer iricesand a OFITEXes commissions to world
market prices. The linking of producer prices to world market prices
would be achieved through the transformation of the currently fixed
producer price into a flexible, but guaranteed for any particular year,
cotton seed collectioni/ price, which would be adjusted upward or
downward in line with movements of international cotton prices. Further,
for the purpose of the stabilization scheme, the basis for the calculation
of SOFITEX's guaranteed operating costs (including commissions) would be
revised so that they depend on (1) signiflcant efficiency gains in the
marketing of cotton (para 80), and (2) the profitability of the campaign
rather than gross sales as is currently the case.   The guaranteed
collection price would be announced before the planting season. Farmers
would receive a premium (ristourne) for the following year's cotton if the
current cotton campaign proved profitable due to higher international
prices. Thus, except for the very first year of the scheme, the actual
purchase price of cotton will be the guaranteed collection price plus the
premium calculated on the basis of the results of the previous year's
campaign.
87.         The collection price would be supported by a self-financing
independent cotton fund, which would be placed with a financial
institution and be managed by a committee including representatives of
i/This price is tm minimum t a producer would be guanted at t collection of sec4 cotton. The actual
price paid will be this prioe plus a premiun calculated on th basis of tho resu of the previous years cotton
campaign as is aplained below.



- 22 -
SOIITBX' I management, the Government, SOFITEX' u private shareholders, and
the producers. The fund would benefit from an initial deposit by the
Government in compensation of CSPPA's outstanding debt with SOFITEX
(through donor financing). It would subsequently be financed from lint
export revenues. The fund would have a ceiling of CFAP 4.5 billion in its
first year (1992/93).  At this ceiling, the fund would be capable of
supporting a difference in the world price (sales price) and the average
cost price of Burkina cotton (estimated at CFAF 420/kg) of up to CFAF 60.
The collection price would, however, be lowered if the cotton sector ran
deficits for two consecutive years and/or the stabilization fund reached
its minimum level of CPAF 1.8 billion.
88.         Distribution of profits: Profits from the cotton campaign are
currently distributed between CSPPA (75S%), SOPITEX (15%) and the CRPAs
(regional service of Ministry of Agriculture) (10%). The latter receive
a share of SOFITEX's profits because they are responsible for extension in
the cotton producing areas.  Under the reform program the government
proposes that net revenues from lint exports would only be distributed
among beneficiaries after the stabilization fund has been constituted to
the agreed ceiling.   After tax profits in excess of this would be
distributed as follows: 45% to producers in form of a premium to be paid
out during the following marketing season and 55% to SOFITEX. SOFITEX's
board would decide on the use of funds generated through after tax
prof its. The CRPAs would no longer share the cotton sector' s profits, but
would be remunerated by SOFITEX for the services they provide on the basis
of 1 CFAF/kg cotton produced in the area they serve.
89.         Taxations The cotton sector is currently taxed in three ways:
SOFITEX's revenues from the sale of cotton seed to farmers and domestic
industries and its 5 remuneration on lint exports are subject to a 45%
turnover tax. The 75% SOFITEX profits paid to CSPPA are considered as
CSPPA revenues and thus subject to a 45% turnover tax. Lint exports are
subject to a 3% statistical tax. Under the reform program the turnover
tax would be replaced by a tax on SOFITEX's profits at a rate of 45%.
90.         Other Trade Reforms:   The regulation according to which
SOFITEX can not move cotton out of the country before a sales contract is
signed would be abolished to allow SOFITEX to stock cotton in export ports
and take advantage of higher paying fast-delivery requests from clients.
91.         Institutional Reforms: A contract-plan between the Government
and SOFITEX--acceptable to IDA and other donors--which specifies SOFITEX Is
accountability to the Government as a mixed-capital company2/ and the
Government's obligations vis-&-vis SOFITEX has been drafted to cover an
initial 3-year period (1992-94), updated every year. In particular it
guarantees SOFITEX's managerial autonomy (in line with the agreement in
SAL I that all SEMs will be subject to private commercial law) and renders
SOFITEX solely responsible for all decisions related to its commercial
activities including ginning and marketing.   The contract-plan also
defines multi-year sectoral objectives, including an investment plan and
its financing.
92.         To  strengthen  the  capacity  for  sectoral  planning  and
monitoring, a planning and monitoring unit for the cotton sector would be
established and would be directly accountable to SOFITEX's board of
directors, which would hold the ultimate responsibility for sectoral
VIThe Govenmen retains 65% of the capital and wil continue to retain hs share duing the adjustmet period.
Tho Compne Faiase pour e Ddvoppment des Fibres Textils (CFDT) holds 34% and the remaining 1% is
hed (0.5% each) by two loal banku the Banque nenatonal du Burdna (BIB) and the Banque Intntonal
pour Ib Comme, lIndustrie et rioultu du Burkina (BICIA-B). The Govement is committed to reducing
its shams in SOFPfEX provided national owners can be found.



- 23 -
planning and monitoring.   SOFITEX would be restructured following the
recommendations of the recently accomplished personnel audit.   The
restructuring would aim at cost reductions and further increasing
SOPITEX's  managerial  capability,  with  particular  attention  to
strengthening the middle-level management.
93.         The 1992/93 Cotton Camnaian. The Government proposes that, as
a transitional year and exceptionally, the 1992/93 collection price be
announced in the middle of the cotton campaign.   The reasons are the
following: earlier proposals to maintain cotton prices at 95 CFAF/kg for
first grade seedcotton, 80 CFAF/kg for second grade, and 50 CFAF/kg for
third grade would have meant, given current grading practices, an average
seed cotton price of 91.7 CFAF/kgt at the current average sales price of
CPAF 340 CFAF/kg realized by SOFITEX on the world market, the average
producer price could not exceed 57 CFAF/kg assuming that SOPITEX's cotton
marketing costs were to remain at the same levels.   The delay in
announcing the seedcotton collection price and the entering into effect of
the contract plan (currently planned for October 1992) will permit the
Government to (1) identify and implement measures to drastically reduce
SOFITEX's abnormally high marketing costs, (2) institute more rigorous
seedcotton grading practices, (3) better appreciate the trends in the
world market price of cotton, and (4) mobilize donor assistance to prevent
too drastic a drop in the producer price. Given announced floor prices in
neighboring countries, the Government would aim for a minimum average
seedcotton price of 85 CFAF/kg
Other Cash Croos (8esame, Grounduuts. Sheanuts.
94.         Current Situation: Up till the 1991/92 agricultural campaign,
prices of the above cash and export crops were fixed annually by the
Ministry of Commerce.   Prices were uniform across the country and no
allowance was made for quality differences. Prices were fixed at three
levels: producer prices, CSPPA purchases from traders, and CSPPA sales of
the products to local processing factories.   CSPPA guaranteed the
announced prices through direct purchases from village groups or from
accredited traders. CSPPA subsequently ensured the export of these crops,
although accredited traders could also export after obtaining an export
permit and CSPPA's approval. CSPPA acted as a stabilization agency to the
extent that it bought at the officially announced price throughout the
year and then absorbed fluctuations in the world market prices.
95.         Similar to cotton, the stabilization of oil seed prices did
not work effectively.   Marked inter-annual fluctuations of official
producer prices during the 1980. indicate that CSPPA performed little
stabilization from year to year.   In fact, the relative variation of
official producer prices over the 1980s was higher than that of
international prices for sesame and sheanuts and only marginally less for
groundnuts. In addition, the system worked to the advantage of traders
rather than producers, as CSPPA bought a large share of its products from
traders who did not necessarily observe the official producer prices.
This was particularly true for sheanuts, the only product which benefitted
from price support (but not necessarily effective price stabilization),
during the 1980s. CSPPA's cost price of sesame and groundnuts was always
significantly below its achieved export price during the 1980., so that
producers of these products only contributed to but never benefitted from
the stabilization fund.   Ironically, of all the products which CSPPA
sought to stabilize, sheanuts is the one for which stabilization has the
least justification as it requires neither investments nor labor prior to
gathering (harvesting).
96.         Proposad Policy Reforms:  In 1990, the Government abolished
prior export authorizations for all products except cereals and in early
1991, as part of SAL I preparation, the system of authorized pricing for
locally produced goods was abolished with the exception of a negative list



- 24 -
of goods deemed essential (rice, sugar, and wheat flour).  Abolishing
prior export authorizations effectively ended CSPPAIs monopoly over the
exports of sesame, sheanuts, and groundnuts. However, exporters still
require the approval of C8PPA in order to benefit from the price
stabilization scheme. Under the agricultural sector adjustment program,
the price stabilization schemes and the CSPPA role in them (and thereby
price setting at the three levels: the producer, CSPPA purchases from
traders, and CSPPA sales to local processing industries) for sheanuts,
sesame and groundnuts will be abandoned. The Government will confirm and
widely publicize that the exports of these products are liberalized and
exporters neither need prior authorization to export nor the approval of
CSPPA.
97.         Currently,  CSPPA  plays  three  different  roles:  a  price
stabilization board for sheanuts, groundnuts and sesame; a supplier of
these products for exports and local processing industriest and a
significant shareholder in a number of local industries. As of 1988, the
CSPPA held shares amounting to CFAF 4.31 billion (US$ 17.24 million in 17
local industries, of which shares in SOSUCO (CPA? 1.35 bllion) were the
most important. Other significant shares (CFPA million and above) were
held in CITEC RUILERIE (CFA? 914 million), SOFITEX (CFAP 900 million),
SAVANA (CFAF 180 million), UREBA (CFAF 160 million), PASO YAAR (150.1
million), CNCA (CFAP 150 million), and BND (100 million).
98.         In November 1991, within the context of a SAL I supervision
mission, the Government prepared the terms of reference for a study to
determine the future role of CSPPA (and OFNACER and COP) in a context of
liberalized marketing and pricing systems.   The Government is fully
committed to promptly implement the recommendations of the study. The
study could recommend (a) the liquidation of CSPPA, or (b) its
transformation from an EPIC (etablissement public A charactbre industriel
et  commercial)  into  a SEM  (societ4 d'economie mixte),  engaged  in
commercialization (domestic and export) of agricultural products and the
management of its shares in local industries. In the latter case, CSPPA
would operate in competition with other traders and exporters. Further,
in addition to CSPPA operating as an autonomous enterprise, the Government
would sell a minimum of 75% of CSPPA's capital to the private sector by
July 1, 1993.
99.         SOFIVAR currently an EPIC would be transformed into a Soci6t6
d'Economie Mixte (SEM) with a reduced Government participation in its
capital to a maximum of 25%. SOFIVAR has in recent years (since 1985)
played an important role in the successful promotion of groundnuts through
the provision of inputs, production credit, extension and purchase of
groundnuts. It would, therefore, continue its activities in this field.
Aside from the fact that 80FIVAR will no longer be obliged to make
contributions to CSPPA's stabilization fund, no further policy changes are
called for with respect to SOFIVAR as it carries out its activities
efficiently and effectively.
Iusar
100.        The production of sugar is an exclusive monopoly of the
Soci6t6 SucriAre de la Como6 (SOSUCO), a mlxed-capital company with 66.1%
state ownership. The rest of the shares are held (in order of importance)
by: various parastatals (16.5%), the Republic of C8te d'Ivoire (10.7%),
SOMDIAA (a French-owned company, 6%), and the private sector, of which
foreign private (0.6%) and domestic (0.1%).  The ownership of shares in
SOSUCO by the C8te d Ivoire makes SOSUCO unique among parastatals in
Burkina. The present capital structure of 80SUCO dates from 1984 when it
was purchased from SONDIAA and restructured.  At that time the share
capital of SOSUCO was raised from CFA? 3.115 to CFAF 6.031 billion.
soSUCO, however, inherLted accumulated losses of CPA? 3.387 billion,
leaving a net value of only CFAF 2.644 bllion.



- 25 -
101.        SOSUCO manages a large irrigation perimeter (4,000 hectares)
in Banfora where between 240 to 329 thousand tons of sugar cane are
produced.   30 thousand tons of refined sugar is produced annually, on
average.  In all SOSUCO employs about 4,800 people of which 1,850 are
classified as permanent, 500 are contractual, and 2,500 are classified as
seasonal.
102.        The problems of sugar production and marketing in Burkina are
multiple. They include the high cost of domestic production, a rigid and
unmanageable marketing arrangement which invites fraud, public import
monopoly, and import taxes based on a very low valeur mercuriale (minimum
import value) which leads to substantial unofficial importss
Marketina arranoement.   Until 1990, SOSUCO sold sugar only to
traders approved by the Ministry of Commerce. 'Wholesale and pan-
territorial consumer prices were set by the same ministry. The
traders were reimbursed for transport costs by SOSUCO depending on
the ultimate destination of the sugar. As a result, many traders
make false declarations on their ultimate destination in order to
maximize transport costs. In 1990, SOSUCO requested and obtained
permission from the Ministry of Commerce to select its own traders
with the result that the number of traders was reduced from 167 to
43. The problem of transport fraud, however does not seem to have
been completely eliminated.
Trade regulatiqns. SOSUCO, through CGP, has a monopoly on sugar
imports.   Despite this monopoly on imports, however, unofficial
imports (estimated in excess of 20% of domestic consumption) have
been considerable.
103.        In addition,  SOSUCO is financially distressed due to an
inadequate capital structure (thus a high long-term debt to capital ratio)
as well as questionable management practices.  Among the latter is a
policy of carrying very high inventories financed by substantial short
term borrowing from the banking system.
104.        With assistance from the CCCE (the Development Bank for
Economic Cooperation) of Prance, the Government initiated a rehabilitation
of SOSUCo in 1990.   The rehabilitation addresses SOSUCO's capital
structure, reductions in manpower, and generally seeks to improve the
management of the company.   Much needed investments to improve the
productivity of SOSUCO are either already under way or are contemplated.
These include a new dam on t-he Comoe (nearing completion) to increase the
irrigation potential of SOSUCO and some modest investments to improve the
industrial machinery.   It is expected these investments, and better
selection of cane varieties on SOSUCO's part, will lead to substantial
reductions in costs of production in the medium term. Sugar production in
Burkina, however, will still not be internationally competitive after
these improvements.
105.        Under the Government Is Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Program
the reforms will concentrate on two main issuess reform of the sugar
import trade regime, and liberalization of domestic marketing of sugar
including the abandonment of pan-territorial consumer prices for sugar.
First, a transitional tariff based on c.i.f. prices would be imposed on
imports of sugar. This is in line with agreement reached under SAL I for
the "valeurs meicuriales" (minimum import values) to be abandoned by 1992.
The exact level of protection would be calculated as to leave the domestic
price (on average) at the current level and is expected to be initially
about 30 percent of CIF value. Second, SOSUC0 would be free to determine
the factory-gate wholesale price at which sugar will be sold to traders,
given the new tariff structure. Third, the system of reimbursement of
transport costs will be abandoned. The import tariff will be revised
downwards over time on the basis of an agreed time table of cost



- 26 -
reductions with SOSUCO. The cost reductions would reflect foreseeable
productivity increases due to measures undertaken under the rehabilitation
plan. To this end, the Government and IDA have agreed on the terms of
reference of a study to determine the appropriate tariff structure for
sugar over the medium term. This new tariff will be implemented starting
in December 1992 and would be reviewed after six months of implementation.
Fruits and Veaetables:
106.        Although Burkina has successfully broken into the European
market for horticulture products and, to a more limited extent, fruit, it
currently has problems defending its market share because of irregular and
frequently delayed deliveries and problems with the quality of the produce
delivered. The main constraints faced by the sector are two-folds first,
a large share of the export market (between 65 and 80% of the vegetable
market) is controlled by L'Union des Cooperatives Agricoles et Maraichares
du Burkina (UCOBAM).   This union of cooperatives8/ has the role of
providing inputs to member cooperatives (including guaranteeing credit
accorded by the agricultural bank, CNCA), providing technical assistance
at the level of production, and handling the collection, internal
transport, storage and export of products. Since 1987, UCOBAM has been
facing severe difficulties in all its roles and has serious internal
management problems. Further, many of the member cooperatives are not
well managed and are able to continue producing only because they rely on
the state or foreign aid for the maintenance and renewal of irrigation
infrastructure.   Second, bottlenecks in transportation for the export
markets are severe.   Air Afrique only makes limited freight space
available for the export of these products and exports of UCOBAN receive
priority thus often leaving other exporters9/ without outlet.   This
problem needs to be addressed, especially since Burkina is facing stiff
competition and is likely to lose its export market if problems with
deliveries and quality persist.
107.        Under the adjustment program, the Government would withdraw
from UCOBAM after addressing the issue of UCOBAM's indebtedness to the
banking system.   UCOBAM would be managed exclusively by the member
cooperatives which would decide on whether to dismantle it if it should
prove impossible to rehabilitate it. In addition to the renegotiation of
landing rights with Air Afrique to increase available freight, the policy
of according priority to UCOBAM exports will be abandoned.
108.        Further, special import authorization for cartons will be
eliminated as such prior authorizations effectively oblige producers to
purchase all packaging materials from SONACEB the sole local manufacturer
of cartons. Packaging materials from this source aro significantly more
expensive than materials imported from Mali and unduly raise the price of
Burkinaba agricultural exports, thus hurting their competitiveness.
Live7ltck:
109. Livestock remains important in the 8urkinabe economy. However, its
performance has significantly lagged behind that of agricultural
production and productivity in the livestock sector remains low compared
to other countries in the region. The Government is fully aware of the
problems posed by the sector and has already taken a series of policy
measures aimed a improving the sector' s performance.   Prices of all
8/UCOBAM was created in 196. t gmup about 30 cooperais. n ai UCOBAM has 20,0 nmember who
are vegetable and fit producers.
2/In 1990 there wer 7 prite epores-who purchasether supplies of vegetabks fom non-UCOBAM
producers and, increasin*, from UCOBAM coopeative.



- 27 -
livestock and meat products are fully liberalized and the livestock
marketing board has been abolished. Veterinary services have been opened
to the private sector.   The only pressing issues--within the sole
competence of Burkina authorities--in terms of policy measures remains the
elimination (and at a minimum, reduction and harmonization) of (para-
fiscal) taxes on exports of meav and livestock. In 1991, the Government
eliminated the droits de sortie (4,400 CFAF per head of cattle), which cut
the combined burden of taxes on exports to 3,300 CFAF. Burkina continues
to levy, however, a statistical tax of 2,200 CFAF per head and various
other taxes  (patente, taxe de recherche et conditiotnement, timbre
douani6re, taxe CBC, taxe ONAC) that total 1,100 CFAF per head. Meat is
currently subjected to higher taxes than live animals, thus punishing the
export of these higher value added goodss several of these levies are
calculated on the basis of the valour mecuriale (minimum export value).
The mercuriale for meat, however, is higher in relation to exports of live
animals thus, the bias against meat exports.   This also means the
incidence of parafiscal taxes (especially the statistical tax, taxe do
recherche et de conditionnement, taxes CBC, and the taxe ONAC) could
actually increase if the mercuriales are replaced by actual market prices
as foreseen in SAL I.
110.        While no further reform measures are currently required in
this subsector, strong efforts are in place to define priority programp
and projects and secure their financing. Particular attention will be
paid to the demarcation of livestock grazing ranges and their development
and protection (under the Environmental Management Project--para 45),
increased integration of animal husbandry and farming, supplementary
animal feeding with agro-industrial by-products, access to water points
and the promotion of private animal health services. The Government is
currently preparing an action plan for the livestock sector focussing on
priority projects to be undertaken during the period of the adjustment
program.
i11.        Other policies to boost Burkina's livestock exports can only
be meaningfully addressed in an interregional context. These includes the
lack of competitiveness of Burkina's meat products in non-CPA zone coastal
West African markets (especially Nigeria and Ghana), export subsidies on
SC exports of red meat and poultry products, which reached very high
levels by 1987-89, particularly in C8te d'Ivoire, and the high livestock
marketing costs (transport, informal "taxes", and other marketing costs)
in the West African market.
Other Xnstitutidnal Reforms:
112.        Under SAL I, the Government has undertaken to (i) implement
statutory and financial reforms to induce greater efficiency in the public
enterprise sector; (ii) create an appropriate policy and legal context for
divestiture; (iii) begin the divestiture process which would be completed
under a proposed IDA private sector development project (PY93).   In
addition to eliminating of all subsidies, amending the laws governing
public enterprises (done in July 1991), eliminating of all cross debts,
reviewing the statutes of all public enterprises, enacting a law to permit
financially distressed enterprises to be put into receivership, SAL I will
also support, among other measurest (i) the conversion into administrative
institutions (EPAs) financed directly by the Government budget, those
EPICs providing public services only; (ii) putting those that have been
identified as having financial difficulties under receivership; and (iii)
initiating the divestiture process for 12 enterprises, identified as most
attractive to private investors, which would be privatized by the end of
1992.
113.        With respect to institutions operating in the agricultural
sector, reforms other than those pertaining to OFNACER, CSPPA and SOFITEX
will occur at two levels: In accordance with SAL I, all EPICs intervening



- 28 -
in the agricultural sector will be transformed either into SPAs (OFN&CER,
CRPAs and others) or SEMs.  During SAL I negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government on the transformation of all current EPICe
operating in the agricultural sector into either SPAs or SEMs.
114.        The  jecond  level  of  institutional  reforms  pertains  to
streamlining the services of the key Ministries intervening in the
agricultural sector.    A number of ministries are currently involved,
either directly or indirectly, in agricultural and rural development.
They include the ex-Ministry of Commerce (responsible for the main
agricultural price stabilization boards and now part of the Ministry of
Industries and Commerce), the Ministry of Transport (feeder roads), the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the ex-Ministry of Cooperative
Action (currently a State Secretariat), the Ministry of Water Resoutces,
the Ministry of the Environment and Tourism, and the Ministry of
Territorial Administration. Of these, three (Agriculture and Livestock,
Water Resources, and Cooperative Action) carry out the majority of tasks
pertaining to the sector.  The division of labor between these three
Ministries (but especially Agriculture and Livestock and Cooperative
Action) is currently ill defined, leading to significant overlap of
activities and responsibilities.
115.        Under  the  agricultural  sector  adjustment  program,  the
Government has set up a working group to analyze the existing situation
and to draw up an action plan and implementation schedule to rationalize
the intervention of these ministries. on the basis of the preliminary
findings of this working group the main objectives to be pursued under the
action plan will be to ensure greater coordination between (and
rationalization of--including reduction in the number of) ministries
involved in the rural sector to avoid duplication of effort and
ambiguities in the division of labor between ministries. However, since
June 1991, there have been a number of ministerial realignments, the full
implications of which are not immediately evident.   For example, the
livestock portfolio within the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, is
now handled by a minister of state in charge of livestock as opposed to a
state secretary.   Given the continuing realignments, therefore, the
Government proposes to submit the terms of reference for a detailed study
aimed reorganizing central Government departments and agencies intervening
in the agricultural sector for IDA's approval in September 1992. The
recommendations of this study will be jointly examined by Government and
IDA in the second quarter of 1993, while implementation of the
recommendations will begin during the first half of 1994.
Coorination of InvestIent with the Reeurreut audact
116.        About 40% of public investment, but less than 8% of budgeted
current expenditure go to the rural sector.   About 90%  of public
investment in the rural sector is financed by external sources which also
finance a large share of the operating expenditure of rural public
services.   Because these projects are implemented by four different
ministries (Agriculture and Livestock, Cooperative Action, the irrigation
component of the Ministry of Water Resources, and the environment and
fishing portions of Ministry of Environment and Tourism), and their
regional offices without coordination between these agencies, the
Government lacks an overview of total recurrent public expenditures going
to the rural sector. In addition, not enough effort is made to assess the
future recurrent expenditures of individual investment projects, with the
result that most projects lack financing for maintenance upon completion.
The public investment program has lacked clear sectoral priorities and
many of investment decisions were donor driven. Thus, a significant share
of resources went to investments with low financial and economic returns,
such as large scale irrigation projects.



- 29 -
117.        In March 1991, an Agricultural S8CAL preparatory mission
examined the 1991 current expenditures and investment budgets of the four
ministries with exclusive or substantial impact on the rural sector and
observed that the recurrent budgets for these ministries (and especially
the ministry of agriculture and livestock) provide a very partial picture
of the true extent of these expenditures. This is because in agricultural
extension, for example, the budget of the ministry covers only the salary
component of the CRPA's expenditures whereas, being EPICs, these centers
cover their operations and maintenance needs through services rendered to
projects, other EPICs, or SEMs (eg placing credits for CNCA, placing
inputs for SOFITEX, providing veterinary services etc). As a result, the
salary-recurrent expenditure ratio of the ministry (and by extension the
ratio for the public sector) is significantly overestimated. Further, it
is difficult for the authorities to ascertain if the recurrent
expenditures of the rural ministries are adequately provided for or
effectively and efficiently used.
118.        Much of the shortcomings observed in the public investment
programming in the agricultural sector are being addressed in SAL I.
First, the UNDP and the Bank--within the context of the SAL I-supported
reform program--assisted the Government to establish procedures for
formulating a three-year rolling public investment program (PIP) and for
monitoring investments.   The PIP is to be revised twice a year in
consultation with the Bank to reflect implementation experience and to add
new projects which meet an agreed set of criteria. The monitoring of
investments is to be substantially strengthened by the merging of the
Banque Int6gr6e de Projets (BIP) at the Ministry of Finance and Planning
and the Service Informatique de Suivi des Projets (SISP) at the
Presidency.
119.        Investment decisions will consider future operating and
maintenance costs as well as the availability and sources of funding. To
this end, the Government will assess the recurrent needs of the principal
spending programs in the priority sectors (by 1993, these will bet basic
education, health, road maintenance, agriculture, and the environment) as
well as of all major projects to be completed in 1991 and 1992. Starting
in 1992, inclusion of new projects in the PIP will require an estimate of
future recurrent costs. Satisfactory implementation of the 1991 and 1992
budgets and agreement on the 1992-94 investment program are conditions of
Second Tranche and Third Tranche release of SAL I.
120.        Proposed Actions Under the Agricultural SECA. In view of the
comprehensiveness of the SAL I program, no new reforms specific to
investment programming in agriculture are warranted. However, supervision
of the implementation of the Agricultural SECCL will ensure that the
investment budgets of the rural ministries (a) correspond to sectoral
priorities as set out in the Government's Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy and (b) are rationalized to, in particular, ensure the
adequacy of the provisions for operations and maintenance.



- 30 -
IV. THE PROP08ED CREDIT
A. Credit Historv
121.        The proposed credit would be the first IDA agricultural sector
adjustment credit to Burkina Faso. The possibility of an agricultural
sector adjustment credit was first considered with the Government during
discussions of the Country Economic Memorandum in January 1989.   The
proposed Agricultural SECAL was identified during a mission in June 1989,
prepared during two joint IDA/French Aid Agencies/EC missions in November
and  March/April  1991,  and  appraised  by  the  joint  mission  in
October/November 1991. Negotiations are planned for April 1992.
B.   Financiny and Management of the Prouram
122.        Credit Amount and Financing: It is proposed the Government's
agricultural sector adjustment program be supported by an IDA credit on
standard terms for the equivalent of US$ 28 million.   These quick-
disbursing funds are sufficient to support the Government's agricultural
sector policy reforms and to finance a significant part (approximately 26
percent) of the projected residual external financing gap for the period
1992-94. The current account deficit is expected to remain around 14% of
GDP during 1991-1993 and to decrease to about 12 percent by the end of the
decade.   After accounting for debt rescheduling and project-related
disbursements, an annual residual financial gap of US$ 114 million is
foreseen during 1991-93. About USS 10 million annually will be financed
through Burkina Faso's access to the IMF SAF approved by the IMF Board in
March 1991. A further US$ 51 million annually will be financed through
IDA support for the adjustment program, of which the proposed Agricultural
SECAL (USS 28 million between 1992-1994) would be a part (see Table 2 on
Page 31). The counterpart funds will assist the Government in carrying
out reforms which could ultimately have a budgetary impact in excess of
US$ 75 million. These costs includes termination allowances of staff of
OFNACER, SOSUCo, and SOFITEX which will become redundant; eliminating the
debts of CSPPA, CITEC, and FASO-YAAR to SOFITEX, and the accumulated debts
of UCOBAM, as well as restructuring the capital of SOSUCO; and providing
the initial funds to the revised cotton stabilization scheme.
123.        The French aid agencies are expected to provide quick-
disbursing financing in the amount of around USS 20 million, to assist the
restructuring of the cotton and the sugar sub-sectors. Additional funding
would be provided for investments in these two subsectors and possibly the
livestock subsector, cereals, and fruits and vegetables. The European
Community is expected to finance projects up to US$ 20 million on the
basis of Lom6 IV agreements. The actions of EC will concentrate on the
Cereals Plan (para 64), including the costs of restructuring OFNACER, and
measures to promote livestock production, export and the integration of
livestock raising in agricultural production systems. Parallel financing
of as yet undetermined amount would be provided by Germany to support
reforms In the cereals subsector and in support of actions to promote food
security. The African Development Bank would finance projects to the tune
of 10 million units of accounts (UA) under the Agricultural SECAL. To
assure that these programs fit within the overall framework of tne
sectoral adjustment program, mutual agreement on the key sub-sectoral
action programs were made an integral condition of the proposed sectoral
adjustment  credit.   The Government of Burkina  Paso would be the
Agricultural SECAL borrower.



- 31 -
C. Procurement and Disbursexents:
124.        The IDA adjustment credit of US$ 28 million would be disbursed
in three tranches. The first tranche of USS 10 million would be d4isbursed
gDon offectiveness, the second tranche (US$ 10 million) approximately 12
months later, and the third and final tranche (US$ 8 million) a year after
the disbursement of the second tranche.
125.        The adjustment credit would finance 100% of the CI? costs of
general imports, excluding luxury goods, military equipment, and
environmentally hazardous products as defined under the Standard
International Trade Codes (SITC). Disbursements against a positive list
would be impractical given the low estimated value of agricultural
intermediate  imports.   Contracts for goods to be imported by the
Government or the private sector, each estimated to cost US$ 2 million or
more, would be awarded following a simplified International Competitive
Bidding (ICS) procedure using a standard bidding document to be cleared
with IDA--this threshold is consistent with the anticipated size of
contracts and the experience of Burkina with Bank procedures. Procurement
by public agencies for items below this threshold would follow standard
Government procedures acceptable to IDA: a minimum of three quotations
from eligible suppliers with the exception of proprietary equipment, spare
parts, and standardized equipment required for reasons of compatibility
with existing equipment.
126.        The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) prepared by
the Bank in 1990 indicated that the laws and decrees governing procurement
procedures of Burkina were in broad conformity with Association
Guidelines.   The Association surveyed a sample of potential public
importers and found that when a limited number of suppliers were contacted
directly, this was on the basis of lists which in general were reviewed
and updated regularly. Eligible imports below the US$ 2 million threshold
by private agencies would be procured in accordance with normal commercial
practices: wherever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from at
least two countries would be sought. Single source purchasing would only
be used for proprietary equipment, or where compatibility with existing
equipment require standardization. The Association reviewed the current
procedures used by some major potential private importers: these
procedures were competitive by soliciting quotations from a variety of
sources before finalizing purchases, except for cases of direct
contracting acceptable to the Association.   Accordingly, the standard
commercial practices being followed are acceptable without reservation.
127.        A General Procurement Notice will be published in "Development
Business" to alert expcrters from Bank-member countries to export
opportunities offered in respect of this operation. Imports shipped prior
to August 1989 would not be eligible for Bank financing. Contracts below
US$5,000 would not be eligible for IDA financings this threshold would be
consistent with a satisfactory access of small and medium size importers
and still a manageable operation from an administrative point of view.
Retroactive financing would be acceptable up to US$ 5 million (18 percent
of credit amount) for eligible imports paid during the four-month period
preceding credit agreement signature. No more than 20 percent of the
credit would be used to purchase petroleum and food products. Preshipment
inspection rules applicable to imports financed under SAL I would also
apply to the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit. They were put into
effect as of January 1992 to reduce fraud associated wLth underinvoicing
and misclassification. Except for items procured under ICB procedures,
all other procurement under this credit would be subject to price
verification by a designated inspection agency.
128.        IDA would carry out an ex-post review of all contracts awarded
under simplified ICB procedures. Before submitting the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the proposed credit, the Government of



- 32 -
Burkina would submit to IDA two conformed copies of the contract in
question, together with an analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, and a description of the advertising and
tendering procedure followed. Procedures and contracts below the US$ 2
million threshold would be reviewed by IDA supervision missions on a
sample basis. Before submitting the first application for the withdrawal
of funds from the proposed credit, the Government will submit to IDA such
supporting documentation and information as IDA may reasonably request.
129.        Disbursements. The proposed credit would be disbursed against
a general list of imports (excluding products on a negative list).
Disbursements made on the basis of fully documented reimburement
applications for individual contracts exceeding US$200,000, and SOEs for
contracts under US$200,000 with the disbursement/procurement documentation
retained in the field and made available to auditorss TORs for an audit
would cover verification for procurement in conformity with procedures
outlined in the credit agreement.   The Government would establish a
special account at t)e Central Bank to facilitate disbursements.   On
fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness, IDA would disburse an
initial amount of CFAF 800 million, equivalent to the level of eligible
expenditures over a four month period. The closing date for the proposed
credit would be December 31, 1994.
D. Oraanisation for Credit Execution
130.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would have overall
responsibility for project execution, but would work closely with the
Permanent Technical Secretariat for Adjustment operations, and the
Ministry of Finance and Planning. The Permanent Technical Secretariat for
Adjustment Operations has been created to coordinate all adjustment
programs.  The Secretariat consists of specialized subcommittees which
assure day to day follow up of the implementation of adjustment programs.
The Secretariat is also empowered to receive and quickly act on complaints
from Burkinabe citizens (an ombudsman role) concerning the failure of
Government officials or agencies to apply new regulations or procedures in
adjustment programs.    A working group with representatives of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Permanent Technical Secretariat
for Adjustment Operations, and the Ministry of Finance and Planning would
be established to act as counterpart for supervision missions.
X. Accountina. Auditina, and Renorting
131.        The Central Bank would maintain separate accounts related to
the sectoral adjustment credit. These accounts would be audited annually
by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA. The audits would (a)
verify that the conditions of the credit agreement have been respected;
(b) determine whether the accounto have been prepared and maintained in
accordance with sound and generally accepted accounting principles and
practices --eptable to IDA; (c) determine whether records maintained by
the Minist., of Finance and Planning permit the identification of all
receipts and payments under the sectoral adjustment credit. A certified
copy of the accounts together with the audit reports would be submitted
through the Ministry of Finance and Planning within six months after the
end of each fiscal year.   The appointment of an external auditor
acceptable to IDA would be a condition for credit effectiveness.
F.  Monitorable Actions
132.        Policy  actions  to  be  undertaken  under  the  proposed
Agricultural SCAL are detailed in the Government's Letter of Agricultural
Development Policy (see Annex III).  Tranche releases will depend on
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the sector adjustment
programs overall, and upon fulfillment of the specified list of core



- 33 -
actions presented in the policy matrix in Annex 1I of this report. The
macroeconomic framework should also remain consistent with the objectives
set out in the PFP. The Letter of Agricultural Development Policy forms
the basis for sectoral performance review.
133.        The following core actions were undertaken by the Government
before negotiations of the proposed credits
(a)   Government eliminated export taxes (para 22);
(b)   Government abandoned the principle of pan-territorial pricing
for all products in March 1991 except for rice, cotton seeds,
and sugar (para 65);
(c)   Government assurances were obtained by IDA that the price
stabilization roles of CSPPA and OFNACER will be withdrawn
(parao 65 and 96);
(d) Zovernment agreed that it would present an action plan and
implementation schedule for an integrated information system
for the regular collection and timely dissemination of market
information to the public (para 69);
(e)   Government proposed transitional rice and sugar import tariffs
acceptable to IDA, and reached agreement with IDA on the terms
of reference for a study to determine appropriate tariffs on
rice and sugar, to be implemented in December 1992 (para 76
and para 105);
(f) Government assurances were obtained by IDA that: the price of
paddy, rice and sugar would be liberalized at the same time as
the implementation of the transitional tariffs; public milling
capacity would not be further expanded, and that requirement
for SOSUCO to reimburse traders for their transport costs
would be abandoned (paras 77 and 105);
(g)   Government submitted a draft SOFITEX contract plan, acceptable
to IDA, guaranteeing SOFITEX's autonomy and providing a new
cotton stabilization scheme linking producer prices and
SOFITEX renumeration to world market prices (paras 86 and 91).
(h)   Government withdrew CSPPA monopoly on the exports of shea
butter groundnuts and sesame (para 96);
(i)   Government and IDA reached agreement on the terms of reference
for studies on the roles of OFNACER, CGP, and CSPPA in the
context of a liberalized pricing system (para 98).
(j)   Government and IDA reached agreement on EPICs to be converted
into government agencies (ERAs), into state enterprises (SEs)
and mixed capital enterprises (SENs) (para 113);
134.        During negotiations, agreement was reached or confirmed on the
following actions which are reflected in the Government's Statement of
Agricultural Development Policys
(a)   IDA and Government reacbed agreement on the general provisions
of the OFNACER contract plan, and furtner agreed that the
contract plan will be put into effect in December 1992 after
the recommendatione of ongoing studies on the details of
O)NACER' s restructuring and divestiture plan have been agreed
upon between Government and IDA (para 71);



- 34 -
(b)   Implementation of the recommendations of the study of import
tariff for rice, and liberalizing the price of local paddy in
December 1992 (para 76);
(c)   Government and IDA agreement on terms of reference on a study
to determine the best strategy for privatizing SONACOR (para
77);
(d)   Government assurances that the SOFITEX contract plan will be
put into effect in October 1992, at which time all
restrictions on SOFITEX's ability to move lint outside of the
country will also be removed (paras 90 and 91);
(e)   Government   assurances   on   prompt   implementation   of
recommendations of study to determine the fut4re role of CSPPA
(para 98);
(f)   Government assurances that it will disengage from UCOBAM in
December 1992 after settling UCOBAIMs outstanding debts (para
107);
(g)   Government assurances that it will present, for IDA's approval
the terms of reference for a study to redesign and reorganize
central and regional Government departments and agencies
active in the rural world, and which will emphasize (among
others) rationalizing and coordinating the activities of the
Ministry of Agricultuire and Livestock, and the State
Secretariat for Cooperative Action in September 1992 (para
115) .
135.        The condition for credit effect'veness would be:
(a)   The establishment of an accounting and financial management
system in accordance with sound and generally accepted
accounting principles (para 131) and the appointment of an
external auditor acceptable to IDA (para 131).
(b)   The establishment of an interministerial working group with
representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock,   the  Technical  Secretariat   for  Adjustment
Operations, and the Ministry of Finance and Planning to
coordinate activities and to monitor the progress of the
program (para 130).
(c)   Government submitting an audit report covering fiscal year
1991 in respect of the IDA-supported Fertilizer Project (Cr.
1550-SUR)
(d)   Government issuing a notice, acceptable to IDA, repealing the
Notice to Importers and Exporters No. 92-066/MICM/DGC/DCE of
February 19, 1992 concerning special export authorizations for
agricultural products.
136.        Conditions for Second Tranche release would be:
(a)   Government and OFNACER have put into effect a contract plan
acceptable to IDA, and which includes an adequate mechanism
for monitoring and disseminating market information (para 71);
(b)   Government review of the rice and sugar tariffs implemented in
December 1992 as a result of the recommendations of the tariff
study, and introducing modifications, acceptable to IDA, to
the tariffs (paras 76, 105);



- 35 -
(c)   Government reduction of its shares in SONACOR and CSPPA
(should the latter continue to exist as an autonomous export
company) to a maximum of 25% in each institution (paras 77 and
98);
(d)   Government and SOFITEX have put into effect a contract plan
acceptable to IDA, and which includes provisions for an
improved cotton price stabilization scheme (paras 91 and 93);
(e) Government submitting to IDA the recommendations of the study
to redesign and reorganize central and regional Government
departments and agencies that intervene in the agricultural
sector (para 115); and
(f)   A satisfactory macroeconomic framework (para 132).
137.        Conditions for Third Tranche release would bet
(a)   Progress, judged satisfactory by IDA, in the implementation of
the OFNACER and SOFITEX contract plans (paras 71 and 91);
(b)   Government  has  provided  evidence,  satisfactory  to  IDA,
demonstrating that SONACOR has not been granted and subsidies,
whether direct or indirect, during the preceding calendar year
(para 77);
(c)   Government  proposing  an  action  plan  and  implementation
schedule,  judged  satisfactory  by  IDA,  for  streamlining
activities of the Government departments and agencies
intervening in the agricultural sector (para 115); and
(d)   Continued satisfactory macroeconomic framework (para 132).
IDA's bi-annual review and approval of a revised agricultural sector
public investment program will be pursued within the context of SAL I.
G. Benefits and Risks
138.        The proposed project is expected to improve incentives for
agricultural production and marketing, improve efficiency, and increase
productivity in the agricultural sector. The project is expected to have
a positive impact on economic growth and employment creation in the
private sector and, through its impact on agricultural incomes, to
contribute to food security in the medium term. The project, by linking
cotton producer prices to world market prices, would significantly improve
the competitiveness of Burkina's cotton. By drastically reducing para-
fiscal taxes on livestock and meat products, exports should increase. The
domestic cost of producing sugar should also significantly fall. Over
time, the service delivery of ministries involved with the agricultural
sector should markedly improve as a result of measures to coordinate and
harmonize thooir activities.
139.        Burkina Faso has recently embarked on dramatic political
reforms. Political reforms include the adoption of a new constitution was
submitted to public referendum in June 1991 and the holding of
presidential elections in January 1992. Legislative elections are planned
for May 24, 1992. Along with these reforms, there have been a number of
ministerial reorganizations, and another is expected following the
legislative elections. The number of ministerial changes affecting the
agricultural sector have been considerable. However, the fact that the
Government has formulated its economic reform program in a relatively open



- 36 -
and transparent manner reduces the risks of delays in implementation
linked to the minibterial reorganizations. The government has already
undertaken a significant number of reforms in the context of SAL I and
thus demonatrated its commitment and ability to carry out such reforms.
The preparation of the sectoral adjustment program has involved a large
number of Burkinaba officials and various aspects of the proposed policy
agenda have been widely debated in a series of nation-wide seminars. This
process has strengthened the Government's commitment and ability to
implement the proposed policy agenda.   The most important donors in
Burkina Faso have been closely associated with the preparation and
appraisal of the agricultural sector adjustment program and are committed
to participate in the financing of the program.
V.    C    o a
140.        I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend
that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attacbments
Washington, D.C.
May 12, 1992



-37 -
ANNEX I
Pagejifi 12 pages
(is Up6 WI Ilon.at cu errent prioes)
Aatusi              Pr*toj   gobR.          Projeetian
M81I   U811   qw   to"e  two   i.e0   2wI   son    I.e   1994   1o"   am
A.  enperta of agod" a WeS                  127   S;S   264.   264.2  2w64.   8560  8567.4  858  1653.5  418.7  52.   94.
1. Nurchandlee (FM2                       IN.8   149.0  269.   249.2  215.0  804.7  10.6   .06.  1*7.5  157.2  454.1  626.
2. Nun-Factor Services                     27.    89.6   84.9  84.9   59.5   49.4  51.0   51.8   56.1   6183  69.4  1177
S.  Isgorts of Seeds A W$                   4615.0  594.7  160.2  6956.1  730.5   92.8  849.2  9020  979.0 1046.  1124.8 1644.4
1. lurohmndlss (FM8                       165.   487.5  475.2  4661.9  SU1.   5601.5  610.1  647.5  199.5  76.7  ISA2 111.4
S. man-Faste seiviee                      11611.2  157.2 36.0  36.2  36.5  6901.2  260.   54.2  170.5  55.6  102.6  4516.6
C.  Reacmurce, blanc.                     4-6.8  406.9  495.  -410.9 -4115.6 -466.4 -491.5 -541.7 495.2 -42.$ 401.4 -70.2
0.  Not Facto Ins.                           -0.9  -12.0  -14.5  -11.1  -15.4  -7.9  -12.5  -17.6  -25.5  W.4.   44.8  -26.7
1. Feetor Ruceipta                          9.5   12.2   14.0  14.1   18.2  15.4  16.7   15.7   15.7  16.7  17.6  11.8
2. Fabcw Paqaanft                         10.7   24.8   26.1  27.2  26.5   2.   29.5   14.5  42.5  47.5  51.9  60.2
Ol:Totl intreab. U.X (1990-99M sIdta)  10.7   24.3   26.8  27.2  26.8    9.5  26.4   2.6.   24.4   24.0  24.2  24.4
Interest arrears
other factor peaanute (residual) a/    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   15.5   5.9   10.5  1S.3,  26.1  27.7  35.4
K.  Not CuirrwAn Transfoer (private)        159.   191.1  155.6  155.2  144.2  160.5  155.5  155.8  156.6  I5.   168.5  19.5
1. Current Receipts                       177.5  241.6  240.5  241.0  215.8  248.8  23.5  226.6  240.8  240.8  242.9  261.8
a. workers. remittance.                126.9  191.0  178.4  174.6  147.8   W 155119.5  189.5  11.1  164.5  166.6  193.1
b. other current tranm.                 51.7   80.2   67.5  67.2   69.0  60.0   77.8   77.8   77.2  75.53  76.3  $8.5
2. Current PaiaMatS                        36.4   50.5   75.2  76.6  72.1   84.5  61.8   61.5  51.5   61.5  79.4  92.0
F. Current Account balanes
1. SBetr" ae" sfisial transfers,         -187.1  -M66.  -244.2 -266.5 -27.  485.8 -849.1 -406.0 -46.2 401.8  -47.2 -542.4
2. NMt ofaicil trnswfers 6/               17.0  206.    196.  201.   415.0  254.6  266.9  268.1  802.8  127.6  841.5  430.5
0/9s Capitol grants                   0.0   115.   J25.   127.4  1215.4  76.6   97.    94.   1226.5  187.1  145.   194.5
S. Aftr net offaicia  trwansers           -60.1  -20.6  -51.2  -87.0  66.1 -3110.7 -112.2 -14.9 -159.9 -174.2 -180.6 -111.6
0.  Long-Vera Capital mnf lns 0.0.1 *        46.1    UA.   61.   65.1 -197.6   66.5  67.8  129.1   00.6  129.4  121.8  105.7
1. Direct, Fareig. Invetomant              12.5    2.9    6.0    1.7   1.6    1.5   0.0    0.0    0.6   16.1   19.2  -10.6
2. Not LT Leans (1900-99: I  data)         U6.6   40.7  '75.9  61.5 -1911.4   60.5  67.5  129.   900.  11.8  142.1  16.8
a. Dlshur.aante (1900.409: GM)          8.9   92.7  106.6  86.7   94.0   76.7  111.4  15.2  124.1  149.8  189.7  181.6
h. Amorltiatee, OME (1990-99: OMS  6/   22.8   46.0   12.9  27.2  295.4   16.2  61.1   81.9   84.2  16.0  87.7  85.8
S. Other LT af les (nwot  2/                0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    4.2   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
H.  Total Other Item. (nt                      .2   26.1    1.8  29.5   51.1   47.5  26.6  -IS.6   18.9   0.0   0.0   0.0
1. Not Sobrt TOre CseitAl                   2.7    8.2    5.5    8.4    4.7    8.7   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
2. Change In arrears (+ increase) 8/ b/     2.1   27.2   22.4   14.6   691.8   19.7 -145.1  -10.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
S. Capital Fious N.E?.                      8.1  -11.8  -2.3.   4.4   46.3    4.4   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
4. Deb" vJ lot 6/                           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.6    0.9  36.7   14.4   18.9   0.0   0.0   0.0
5. Errore.ind Omissions                     0.5    4.5   -2.9   14.7  -26.2   19.7   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
I.  changes io Net6 Ageerwe                  5.6  -84.9  -11.2  -315.6   46.6   16.7   1.3    1.0    5.6  -14.2  46.6  -25.6
1. Nut Credit free the, Dv                  0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    7.7   11.6    7.6    0.0   0.0  49.4
Purehauss (SA)                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    7.7   11.6    7.6    0.0   0.0   0.0
ftsurd.a.es                           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   5.4
2. chose In net for.             att,s,l. m lea  5.5  -4M.9  -12.2  45.6.4  406'S  15.7  46.4  -10.0  -2.0  -14.2  -=5,6  .2.4
Financing Sep (not transfer gap)            0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   27.6   49.5   59.0  45.1  81.7
Naues$ Nat officil grant so dne LT leans    150.6  25.8   m.9  368.83  213.7  265.8  824.2  892.4  892.8  440.9  441.6  547.1
Dlifiial Capitol gatst and net LT leans    85.0   155.2  1901.0  109.1  -74.0  189.1  184.9  262.   212.0  260.4  247.4  810.0



-38 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 12 pages
afta&t-Po       -   ACIIN WP PAWtOS  (C"'d) I/                       Attachment a
(Page 2 of 2)
(in USS *tllltom  at airet prices)
Actal               PFrl la      .             ProJetion
li      21141o    t      wae   a1110   1w10   i       to    io    lo"   1995   2000
t. $hrs 40 P    (to 5) t
1. Resou.rc Iblame                           .0.7   420.0   -18.0  -14.9  -17.0  -1S.4  -14.7  -18.1  -18.4  -18.2  -18.8  -t1.0
2. Total Zeterst Paymts (Lx+.34gn             0.7      1.2      1.1    1.0    1.1    0.8    0.7    0.7    0.0    0.    0o.    0.4
S. Cwm  Met 8.1. suck. gOantelper"  MP       -10.1   -18.8   -18.4  -12.0  -1.8  -14.8  -14.8  -18.8  -10.4  -18.0  -14.5  -11.7
4. LT Caoltal PFlom (aet.*f tiamafr)          12.1     2.7    11.0    9.0    0.4    0A       9.7   10.O   14.2   1a.0   10.4    8.4
S. Na Credit frVW DP                          0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    0.$    0.2    0.0    0.0   -0.1
0. Nat official grnt ad nt LT loan*           11.2    12.0    10.0    9.0    0.8    0.4    9.7   10.9   10.2   10.6    9.9    0.0
7. Off elt aptltl toran  Md Ua LT lotn,      2.5      0.1  a.0    0.9   -2.9    4.4    5.8    0.2    8.8    0.0    5.8    4.9
M. Pereign achang R"e t
1.  nt's. _ees,a (W$ 11.4)                    189.5   1.S        6.0  8.9  25.5  800.5              -      -       -      -       -
2. Good (nd yr Lmnd  pri)                       8.0      4.8     8.4    4.0    4.8    4.2       -      -       -       -      -      -
8. arms fle.,. tool. 00.1                      14a.2   2s7.0   82r.9  8.4  209.0  804.7  080.4  80s.0  290.2  810.4  844.2  481.8
4. Grose Res. lo 1anth. of Report gde&arv       8.4      4.0     S.7    8.4    4.4    4.2    4.1    8.9    8.8    8.4    8.8    8.2
L. Eacag  Rtee
1. #_itrl Off. such. rats CPAF/S)3
Annal averag  (    rf)                    449.8   8".8   800.   2.0  819.0  272.8  262.1  202.1  2.1  202.1  282.1  262.1
8.8-of-Year (InS a)                       870.S    8.8  267.0   8.0  290.4  20.5           -       -      -       -      --      -
0f eanvrwson factor                       449.8   84.8   800.5  207.8   19.0  272.8  22.1  22.1  2.1  262.1  202.1<  261.1
2. IndIoes be" 190610s
Ibel .tf..cb.rtt ( o/o/aP) (              2I)  00.0    90.  94.1 04.4   00.7        -      - 
04 laoe" N  (U$ 19v60800)                 100.0    17.9   19.8 80.9  1 8.0  14.0  140.?  182.09  19.6  106.0  1n.2  206.8
N. Nt _enu  item
Formal  P at *    . Come sIllotn)        1088.4  1470.4  18.8 209.0 18t0.0 2607.1 2466.4 2010.2 2614.8 82.0 8250.9 46.1
Iorol O  ao M.P. (Mat IIl tom)           1SA1.5  20810.0  2649.7 2785.0 2564.7 8n17.0   M.0 80A4.0 8 .4 4142.9 4405.8 087.0
S/ Date are from SW. PFPI, Veretla of 1/24/91. exapt ittieed o*thei. 2/ Iclude di4ereno, betw.. net LT l_e  as estimated if PFPI
sod thee ro rt   th. R. nJ  eal. differem. beta. lstere"t payeant. M "etietd n to           end thf m  reported In the oN.
a/ In 1991, the deal In In arregro of 15.1 S mpries. arrer. Paid to aeh (21.6), arrare to be re_chod.jled (148.8). md
penltWy  nterest to be reechedled (240)l ad oti..end-91 arrears lncrea   (80).
b/n  1909, grants Increased by 018.7 ml Il which a t-h capitoliged Ifutor (1990 and after) debt seryce on the cancel led Frech dbt.
Amortization OM In 190  tel. 0t18.7 sill of apitalafid futufr debt service to Fre. and 070.0 mill dw to the aeeuption by 0Owt of
reepenoibiit., for RAM arrer. (which technically beewe  payable, 1enc amortzation due, right aw).
n 1900t. principal arrrs of 070. mIll wre ANt *rr er (Govt didn't p" these arrears).
Zn 1909. det Write-off of *1. Sil as the amount of debt service due to France for that year.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 12 pages
1mwva-mm       - te  OQCWATin
06-Ret-I                                            -*- - - - --(ig   of 1)
12,88:8 FM
A_tal               Pro  t    E.              Proectn
Ku Indicators                               1906    1,16    16 1r         1969   19O0   1991   10992   198   1094  1t9    O0c0
Real Growth rates (1) (fte data In  ctnt 196 pIe.")t
WP                                           6.8     9.8      1.9    6.1  -0.4    1.8    4.0    8.6    4.1    4.2    4.0    4.0
DV                                          o9.1     9.0      1.2    7.S   -1.7    .6    S.9    .2 8      .6    4.2    4.2    4.1
tn '000 CMI .s 19S pticee
Real MP pop capita                           1.6    66.9    W.?   661.5   65.6   86.6   68.4   86.0   87.0  807.9   a.8   98.8
Real total cen.nrotleo v.c.                 79.0    08.6    68.6   64.6    M-.3   81.9   80.0   81.8   81.8   8.0   62.7   68.4
Real private cmnslo   p.O.                  6.2    78.0    7.4   M8.o   n.s  n7.    70.s   n.s    1.s    8.8s   7.2   T4.9
Neal per capIta Growth rates M) (trm  dat la soe. 16n Pralme)$
Real CW  p.c.                                5.7     6.5   -1.5    8.8   .8.1   -1.5    1.0    0.0    1.1    1.1    1.0    L.0
Real total camoeticn p.c.                    2.4     8.8   -0.1    1.8   -2.8   -0.e   -t1.       0.7    0.1    1.9   40.4    0.4
Real private cmwptlen p.c.                   2.8     8.8    -0.6    2.2   -8.8   -0.    -0.9    1.1    0.4    2.8   -0.1    0.7
e bt and datas eerI.ea (LT.DU.17)T(S)
Total 060 (M  ae II.) (CMN data)           884.7    69    466,0  677.6  787.2  665.9  80t.1 tS0.0 110.8 1216.6 18.  1665.4
060,/1                                      a8.4    88.0    84.7   #1.9   99.2  29.8  29.9  91.0   21.0   29.4   99.5   99.1
Totas debt servtce (USS atII) I/            a2.9   67.8    61.2 9 5.4  821.9  29.1   84.8   85.7   86.5    0.2   61.9   65.6
5/RExport.e ged and servIce                 19.1    88.8    22.0   18.2  1*0.3    7.6   14.6   14.6   14.6   18.6   1.4    6.7
os/W                                         2..    8.8      2.8    2.0   19.4    0.9    1.6    1.8    1.5    1.8    1.4    1.0
Interset bard". CiXaU4T)(S) t
TOWl Inte,.t (1111at Il)  I/                 10.7    24.8    96.8   27.2  29.5    9.6   26.4   96.8   24.4   24.2   24.2   24.0
mT/Report acode and servce.                  6.9    19.1    10.1    9.1   10.7    2.7    6.2    6.8    6.1   8.6    4.5    2.6
W1WI                                         0.7     1.2     1.1    1.0    1.1    0.8    0.7    0.7    o.6    0.6    0.8    0.4
01/We (re"l tae) (M                          29.9      7.4    21.4  29.7   2.9   92.8   211.6   24.1 . 94.9  29.7   22.9   22.9
I;IR (S yesr ending jer eon)                                                         4.6    7.0    8.9    7.4   6.2    8.9    5.7
66/We (r"l tre) (t)                            8.2     8.8     2.S    .4    8.s    8.1    8.1    4.6    8.2    4.6    6.1   10.0
rree balane/ntesal W   (OP  C)              -.7   -0.0  -1t.8  -14.0  -18.4  -18.4  -14.7  -25.1  .31.4  -Y1.2  -.18.   - t.0
estop  (real tre) (S)                         12.6   12.6      8.4    1.1    8.6    7.9    .4    8.4    0.7    7.7    9.0   u2.8
o  Cor, aext.l hot   .greaterval WP (S)   -18.1   -18.8   -18.4  -19.0  -17.8  -14.8  -14.2  -18.8  -6.4  -16.6  -34.8  -11.7
iero doeste meavIn  ratim.r.t. MP             0.8    0.1    -1.1    0.6    8.0   -o.S    0.6   -.1    0.2  -0.1    0.4    0.2
meg national aevlfg  rate w...t. ,             0.9     0.1   4-.4    0.8    8.8   -0.4    0.8   -0.2    0.2   -0.9    0.4    0.9
Public anI/P (real tare) (5)                  10.8    16.7    1S.6   14.8    0.    18.8   18.9,  1.7   14.1   18.6   19.8   19.0
Privet. OPI/We (ea"l tAres) (3)               10.1     6.2     8.    6.9    9.4    0.4    9.4    9.9   11.0   10.4   10.2   11.0
More of feer_I WP (In S):
Gov totl revenue (*xel. rta)/teral WeP      18.8    1.4    14.8   18.2   18.2   14.6   14.6   14.9   18.0   18.1   18.8   18.7
0ev tout expend A ot landIngftwor_l IW      20.7    96.1  29.0  92.6   98.2   92.2  29.8   22.8   2   1. 9 2 1. 9 I0   22.0
Dodo"t al.(Gos beetajecol grt)/ferl GWe    -7.2  -12.7   -14.5  -19.4  -10.0  -7.6  -8.7   -7.4   41.9  -4.7   -6.4  -6.8
WeP delatr (1961100)                         100.0   10.0   105.8  tC89.6  10.0   1.8  119.0  118.2  1.0  181.0  in.7  189.0
MOP deflatOr gngt rate (5)                     4.7     0.0     8.8    8.0    1.29   8.0    8.1    8.8   S.       8.1    8.6    8.0
R"el effective each rate (196-) (DI)         1.0    98.2    94.1   94.4   69.7        - 
Nerch. tar  of trde (sM  19611o)             100.0   97.6    96.2  100.8   96.6   9.6   9.8   94.4   99.7   968.0   904.9   96.6
aepert (@N8) volm  gawt rate (r) 2/           -1.6     9.6   10.8   4.6    0.6   20.4    2.6    2.2    4.6    4.8   17.6    8.4
X8F/Tetal We (fre- data In 1968 price) M    1.4    1.4    18.1  U1.7   11.6   14.0   18.6   18.6   18.7   1T.7   1.4   18.0
zeport ( ) voelue rowh rate M   V/            80.1    1.S   -7.2    2.8    2.2    8.7    1.4    8.7    4.0    2.6    2.0    8.1
19065/outl W   (frow date In 19S priem)  (i)  84.1    88.0    82.1   81.0   81.8   88.2   8        528  .S   83.8   8.6   81.8   80.4
SWP curt ao"nel.eal 1.a*tot Co Si II.)      -187.1  -996.6  -944.2 -9.  47.0   8.81 -89.1 -406.0 -462.2 401   -12.  .842.4
oros o a" trervee Year-and (S alI Ion)       148.2   287.0   S27.9  80.4  969.6  804.7  806.4  S01.6  29.2  810.4  8t4.2  481.8
oree re. an  onthS of lort ada & *erv.       8.4     4.6     8.7    8.4    4.4    4.2    4.1    8.9    8.8    8.4    8.8    8.2
I/ tpS to 1969, data rer ft.. PtPI, Version 1/94/91. Date for 190-99 are frt       ad fure ln m tt.
re 1969. dat include capital Ized de"t serIc  (1099 and afte) to th  Reach OCI of 6166.? .10.. eritte-eff Ir 199 (Dakiar lOltiatIv).
2/ Cooputed from Retlonl Aeownit data at _etOt 190 priesn.



Page 4 o   12 pages
_nA
Pmg6un (inoa                                            6S           8.i              4C1.0
% Uda                                                       f12                33
WWR PAW (p.a.)                                  2.0          3.3               3.1
CM" oh* loebielow)                             4a           41                 47
Told VeL RAW                                    6.S          7.2                6.6
CmD  Dsdh Rat (gf 100                           21           18                 16
IIt motl (1                                    15t          135                107
Ub EsaMnsyat Btb (y)                            43           46                 53
-iD1!I)muobW  (Dft (S)                    2           36                 46
3_o( % 2&uumm Rag* (S)                          s5           31                 67
PqpIu*eRawo (91                                54:1         57:1               41:1
-     !aWa  _naume Rad.()                        3            6                 29
NUOLTAB.



- 41 -
Page 5 of 12 pages
Table 4: Selected Macroeconomic and External Sector Indicators
1986 - 199'
1986    1987  1 1988    1989    1990
-            -         --zu   ~  ~         -NAWN-
GDP at constant 198S prices                          9.3       1.2       6.1      -0.4       1.3
CX P.S.,
Agriculture, livestock and forestry!   X p. a.)     10.8      -4.2      13.8      -2.9      -3.4
Gross dwmestic investment                           22.9      20.0      22.2      22.8      19.9
(X of GDP)                                          -
Gross domestic savings CX of GDP)                    3.3      _4.1       8.2       6.0       5.2
Export Volumes (1985 = 100)                         103.9    133.1    17.0I  123.0         151.3
cotton                                   175.0    237.5    187.2    188.5        246.0
Gold                                     171.1    247.7    261.1    154.8        214.4
Livestock                                 78.5      79.7      91.1    104.0      107.2
Average f.o.b. cotton export price2 (CAbdJan)      367       406       447       377       410
CFAF/kg. 1985 price was 593                                                                       I
International gold price                           368       447       390      384         -
(USSIfine ounce; London. U .;.)                     -                                       -
Total Exports of Goods and UFS (USS n)              188.8    264.7    284.2    254.5       351.4
Total workers' remittances US$ a)                  191.6    173.4    174.6    147.3        163.9
Totat Imports of goods and NFS (USS.)              594.7    660.2    695.1    710.2        835.4
merchandise terms of trade                          97.6      98.2    108.5       96.8      98.8
(1985.100) (USS)
Real effective xcha e rate (1985M   100)            98.2      94.1      94.5      90.4      90.3
Balance of payments indicators
(X of formal GOP)
Current Account Baslance                           -15.3      13.4    -12.8       .3       -14.5
overall Balance                                       1.9      O.S       1.0      -7.1      -1.6
l.Sources SAL I President's Report (Report No. P-5562-BUR).
2.Source: World Bank, Economic Memorandum, 1989 (Report No. 7594-BUR)
and IMF staff estimates (3/6/91 update of statistical tables (SM/91/53)
in Report on Recent Economic Developments in Burkina Paso, 81/89/275 of
12/18/89).



- 42 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 12 pages
Table 5: External Financing Requirements
1987 - 1994   (US$ million)'
1988     1989  | 1990      1991     1992  | 1993  | 199
Current account deficits,
excluding official transfers            259      327      332      392      419      453      422
LT Debt amortization                       27      293       32       32       33       35       31
Arrears reduction                           0        0        0      190        0        0        0
Changes in gross reserves                  36       49      -17       17       21        16      16
Total financing requirements            322.0   571.0   347.0   631.0   473.0   504.0   469.0
Sources of financing
Grants                                    202.0   415.0   203.0   243.0   260.0   282.0           0.0
Capital grants                          128      125       78      106      120      138        0
Other official grants                    74      101      125      137      140      144        0
Dakar initiative                          0      189        0        0        0        0        0
Loan disbursements                         89       94      104      124      144      141      112
of which IDA (SL and SECALs)              0        0        0       40       52       37
and of which AG-SECAL                                                      12.5    12.5
Foreign dir. invest. (1ct Pekoa)            2        2        2        1       18       22
Arrears accumulation                       15       69       20        0        0        0        0
Debt relief                                 0       17        0      183       16        16
INFPurchases(SAF)                           0        0        0        8       13        9
Capital n.e.i                              14      -26       18       -5      -16       -8
Total identified financing                322.0   571.0   347.0   5S4.0   435.0   462.0   112.0
Residual financing gap                      0.0      0.0      0.0    7T.0    38.0    42.0   357.0
Ave. exchange rate (CFAFAJSS)             297.8   319.0   274.5   260.5   258.0   251.5   251.5
l.Source: Policy Framework Paper, 1991-1993   and President's Report,
June 1991 (Report No. P-5562-BUR).



- 43 -
Page 7 of 12 pages
Table 6: Primary Sector GDP, Production of Principal Crops,
and Official Producer Prices of Main Agricultural Commodities'
_ __1985j1986      1987     1988     1989      1990
Primary Sector (billions CFAF                   205.6    227.9    218.2    248.4    241.3    233.2
at 1985 prices)
Agriculture                                  115.7    135.3    122.9    150.3    140.3    131.1
Livestock                                     57.9     S9.6      61.3     63.1      64.9      64.9
Forestry and fishing                          32.D     33.0     34.0      35.0      36.0     37.1
Productfon of Princ1pal crops 1985/86 -
1990/91 (thousands of tons)
Sorghum                                         800.2   1010.9    847.?   1008.9    991.2    916.6
Ni (tot                                         590.1    679.5    631.8    814.7    649.5    596.9
Saize                                           141.9    155.0    130.5    226.7    256.9    215.7
Rice (paddy)                                     51.2     37.9      21.8     39.1      41.8      42.0
Fonio                                             7.0      6.5       5.2      9.3      12.4      14.1
Croundnuts (abetLed)                            127.4    158.7    145.9    160.2    152.2    143.9
Sesame                                            9.2     10.1      11.3      8.2       7.3       7.2
Sheanuts                                         70.8      8.4      65.0      7.9      29.0       7.0
"Ni4be*  (cowpeas)                               62.3     52.9      36.2     62.2      54.8      58.4
UVoandzoun                                       30.7     13.5       9.0     17.2      20.8      16.2
n                         =?77.2    112.5                           87.6     70.2      85.2      88.1
Sweet potatoes                                   16.1     30.8      24.8     27.5      29.4      36.1
Manioc (cassav)                                  10.2      11.3      6.6      4.7       3.7       7.2
Seed cotton                                     115.8    161.5    158.0    146.0    140.0    160.0
Sugarcane                                       275.0    263.0    272.0    282.0    291.0    ...
French beans                                      3.2      2.4       2.9      3.0       2.9    ...
Officiat Producer Prices (CFAF/kg)                     I
Sorghum                                          80       40        50       45        50        50 s
MIllet                                           80       40        50       45        50        50
Maize                                            80       40        S0       45        50        50
Rice (paddy)                                     85       85        85       85        85        85
Cotton seed (first grade)                       100      100        90       95        95        95
Groundnuts (shelled, firat grads)               150       90        90       95        95        95
Sesame                                          113      175        50       60        80        80
Sheanuts                                         70       40        15       15        18        18
1. Sources:   Minist6re de l'Agriculture et de l'Ulevage and IBRD
agriculture Mission  (November,  1990).   Reprinted  in IMF,  Burkina Paso:
Statistical Annex, Report No. 8H/91/53.



- 44 -
Annex I
Page 8 of 12 pages
Table 7: Cereal Operations of OVNACRR,
1984/85 - 1989/901
(In thousands of metric tons)
1984/85   1985/      198618?7  1688    1988/89    1989/90
Stocks at beginning               19.2       72.9       98.0       69.4       21.0       59.7
of period
Purchases n Local markets           9.6      39.5       21.5        2.3       42.2       21.5
imports                           84.1       14.6        9.2       33.4       14.9        1.6
Grants in kind                   73.4      14.6        9.2        3.4        2.4        1.6
Commercial imports               10.?     ...        ...         30.0       12.5      ..
Sates on tocat markets            40.0       25.0       53.0       n14        20.8       31.5
Losses, free distribution         ...         4.0        6.3       12.7       -2.4      -
on tocat markets, and
other adjustments
Stocks at end of period           72.9       98.0       69.4       21.0       59.7       51.3
1.Sources Office National des Cdr6ales (OFNACBR) reprinted in IMF,
Burkina Faso, Statistical Annex, Report No. 8M/91/53. Cereals are
mainly millet, sorghum, maize, rice, and fonic. OFNACUR's financial
year runs from October 1 to September 30.



- 45 -
Page 9 of 12 pages
Table 8s Financial Operations of the Agricultural
Price Stabilizatien Fund (CIPPA) 1984/85 - 1988/891
(In millions of CPA francs)
"   1984P5  IM19886     19 871        1987/88  i  1988/89
Marketing operations (net)                                I9&Z 2IM |1                              8
Purchases                                -2268         -1052         -2820         -766         -550
Sates                                       3261        2094         2536           960         1414
Exports                                   2072         ...         2461           531          187
Sates on the domestic market              1189         ...            75          429        1227
Stabiltzation and support (net)               -"1                                   -1638         -753
Stabilization receipts                       170         ...            23          282         404
Stabilization payments                      -611         ...            -9        -1920       -1157
Support payments                             ...          ...         -112          ...          ---
Other receipts, including                      218         457           235         1560          140
interest and dividends
Operating expenses                            -717        -711         -1041         -492         -551
Transport costs                             -234        -227          -465         -200        -139
Personn  el xpenditure                      -111        -112          -105         -118        -139
Taxes                                         -9          -S           -12          -12          -20
Amortization                                -148        -148          -445          -76          -69
Financial charoes                            --     T    -25            -3          -50        -146
>  Other                                l   -215        -194           -11          -36          -38
Gross operating profit or loss C3)                                                               _300
Overall revweo  (net)2                        2474       -3128          -386         -305
l.Source: Caiase de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits Agricole
(CSPPA), reprinted in Inf, Burkina Pasos Statistical Annex, Report No.
8M/91/53. The financial year of CSPPA is from September 1 to August 31.
2.Includes receipts from SOITBX/CFDT.



- 46 -
Page 10 of 12 pages
Table 9: Financial Operations of the Caisse G6n6rale de
PMr&quation des Produits de Grande Consommation (CGP), 1985-90'
(In millions of CPA francs)
1985         1986    |  1987    |19U                 1989         1990
Total recefpts                                   10566.3     1852.        21-821.9      26i32 25370.4
Equalizing receipts              3543.2        2700.7      11714.2      11469.0      11m1,         11578.2
Petroleum products               3107.7         1940.9      9676.8      10254.S       10140.2      11365.0
Alcohotic beverages                161.2         146.7      1161.8        121.7         121.2        147.3
Wheat flour                                      207.4       336.4        162.7         717.6         65.9
Edible oit                         268.0        405.7          0.8         .            ..
|   Other2                           6.3      ---            538.4        930.1         912.1
Operating receipts                7189-2       7865         , .3        10_325.       142?.3       122
Financial profits                   43.8        166.7        442.0        339.1         921.4        612.5
Sates revenue                    7145.4        7698.9       6396.3      10013.8       13805.9      13179.7
Total expenditure                  11901.1        4267.6      789. 8      10820.6       15Z.5        l4361.
Equalizing expenditure           9917.0         1742.1      4764.0 s        90        13 .4        128j4.6
Rice                             8441.5         1742.1      4027.8       8405.6       11528.5      12818.1
Sugar                             1475.5                                               1182.9           -
Edible oil                                                   2 .  267.6   160.0         186.3           --
Wheat flour                        ---                       468.6        463.4         370.7         27.5
Operating expenditure               1984.1       2325  ,          2L6      1791.6        i1.mL1       1515.8
Subsidies                           1708.2        2195.5      2496.8       1688.0        1335.2       1150.8
Petroleum products                1628.8       2195.5       1572.4        469.0         663.8        629.1
Other                               79.4         ..         1124.4       1219.0         671.4        521.7
Equity share                         165.0         330.0       630.0
Rice (paddy) collecting              110.9         ...          ---         103.6         644.9        365.0
Surplus or deficit (-)             -1168.L        62L.       Iilz    11001.3            11369        11009.0 Jf
l.Sources Caisse G6n6ra1e de P6r6quation des Prix des Produits de Grande
Consommation (CGP), reprinted in IMF, Burkina Paso: Statistical Anmex,
Report No. SM/91/53.
2.Mainly Surplus value on stocks.
3.Including wheat flour, edible oil, and rice.



- 47 -
Page 11 of 12 pages
Table 10: Performance of the Cotton Sector,
1985/86 - 1990/91'
1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89        1989/90  | 1990/91
Cultivated area                          92.5       126.7       150.0       169.5       150.0       160.0
(in thousands of hectares)
Yiel  (in kgs per hectare)            1100        1330        1021         861         930        1000
Production and sawes
(Thousands of metric tons)
Production of seed cotton               115.5       169.5       158.0       145.9       140.0       160.0
Production of ginned cotton             46.0         65.4        58.6        58.8        57.4        67.2
Exports                                  42.8        56.5        43.5        57.6        56.3        65.9
Domestic sates                            1.7         1.5         1.5         1.2          1.2        1.4
Stocks                                    1.S         7.4        13.6       ...         ...
Unit values of ginned cotton
(In CfA francs per Kg)
Average f.o.b. export price             349.0       390.0       447.0       377.7       410.0       401.8
(Abidjan)
Average c.i.f. export price             ...          -          ...        462.4        500.0       490.0
Average f.o.b. export cost              438.5       382.7       395.4       401.5       403.2       398.2
Average c.i.f. export cost              504.7       436.0       453.2       469.9       464.3       462.0
Financiat operations
(in tillions of CFA francs)
Income from sales3                   19224.0    21401.0    29634.0    27165.0         29597.0    34169.0
Profits                               -6368.0    -3407.0       393.7       -817        2030.4      2216.6
Distribution of profits
CSPPA                              -6368.0    -3407.0        295.3      .817.0       1522.8      1662.5
CFDT/SOFITEX                          ...                     98.4       157.0        304.6       332.5
other                                 -..         . .       _--           _-          203.0       221.7
1.8ources Soci6t6  dos  Fibres Textiles  (SOFITEX),  reprinted  in  IMF,
Burkina Paso: Statistical Annex,  Report No. SX/91/53.  Cotton crop and
financial years run from October 1 to September 30.
2.Current crop only.
3.Includes sales from previously accumulated stocks



. - 48 -
Page 12 of 12 pages
Table 11: Estimated Cattle and Small Ruminants Exports
(1980 - 1989 in Thousands of Reads)
n Year   |  FAo'         SEE      CEWV      Vortd n       IENVT/SEDES
f         jj                                (1965 a 100)
1980      66.1      ".         6.1                      83.0
1981      65.1      65.1      65.1                      80.0
1982      31.0      30.6      30.6
1963      18.0      18.7      32.6
1984      44.6      129.7     53.3
1985      S1.5      39.7      39.7        100.0         83.0
1986      4S.0      41.0      41.0        78.5          65.0
1987                18.2      18.2        79.?          72.0
1988                24.7                  91.9          75.0
1989                46.7      33.5        104.0         75.0
1980s ave.   45.90    48.05     42.23        90.82        76.14
1 '990   1      1        <-         |    107.2          88.7
l.Souces: FAO refers to FAO Trade Yearbooks.  SEE refers to Secrstariat
d'Etat pour L'Elevage. CEBV (Communaut6 Economique du B6tail et de la
Viande, Statistiques Communautaire (1978-1988). World Bank, SAL I
President' Report (Report No. 5562-8UR), June 1991. Consultants' Report
by IEMVT (Institut d'Elevage et de M6dicine V6t6rinaire des Pay.
Tropicaux) and SEDES (Socift6 d'Btudes pour le D6veloppement Economiqtues
at Social) in support of the Agricultural 810Ch Livestock Working Group
in July 1991



- 49 -
Annex f
Page 1 of 5
BURKINA FASO: AGRICULTURAL SECAL
-QUL=MAIX
A. QBJEC  ]:            Improve incentives for production, proceing and private trade in all cereals
in order to increase cereals availability, to encourage regional (intra-country
specaition and promote food security.
Past Amdustment Efforts        CAL Action Pr*&aM          Monitorablo Actions
and Schedule,
1. LibasUzation of C4els
MadletinRand Pon
(i) Except for rice, official  (a) Liberalize prices of all  Governmeat abolishing official prices for all
producer and consumer        cereals including paddy.     cereals, except rice (Completed: Condition of
prices not set by                                         negodation)
Governme  in 1991.
- Govenment assurances that OFNACER will
(ii) Govecnment abandoned                                 withdraw from cereals price stabilization role
the priciple of pan-                                      (Assuances obtained: Condition of
teitorial prices in March                                 Negotiation).
1991.
-IDA and Government Agreement on timinmg
of implemeatation of the recommendations of
the tariff study on rice and the liberaization
of th domestc prices of rice, paddy, and
sugar (Agreemeat obtained at Negodations:
December 1992)
(b) Liberalize th pcessing   - IDA and Govemenft agrement on terms
of paddy and reduce .pubB    of reference for a study on strategy for
ric miling capacity.         privatizing SONACOR (Condition for Board
Presentation: agreement on TOR obtabned at
Negotiations).
- Government assuranethat right of
economic operator to purchase and process
paddy wiJi be guarnteed and widely
publcizd (Asurance obined at
Negotiation).
- Reduction of Govenment shares in
SONACOR to a maximum of 25% (Condition
of Second Tranche Release).
- Govenment providing evidence,
sadisftory to IDA, demonstrating that aU
subsidies to SONACOR have been climiated
(Condition of Third Tmanche Release).



- 50 -
,Annex 11
Page 2 of 5
Past Adiustment Efforts     SECAL Action PYo0am          Monitorable Actions
and Schedule
(c) Limit the role of       - IDA and Govemnment Agreement on
OFNACER to the storage      provisions of OPNACER contract pan
and management of a         limiting role to management of a national
national food security stock  food security stock (maximum 50,000 tons),
and of programmed food      and of food aid; and agreement on timing of
aid.                       iimplementation of the contract plan and
OFNACER restruring and divestiture plan
(Conditions of Board Presentation: agreement
reached on the provisions of the contract plan
and on December 1992 for its being put into
effect at Negotiation).
(d) Support to market       - Govemrnment and OFNACER putting a
information systen          contract plan acceptable to IDA into offect,
completing the OFNACER restructuring and
divestiture plan, and putting into place an
adequate mechanism for monitoring and
dissemnating market information (Condition
of Second Tranche Release).
2. Liberalization of Rice.
Cotton Seed and Sum
Marketine
(i) Abandonment of          (a) Libaalze the domestic    - Officially withdraw right of Ministry of
principle of pan-territorial  marketing of rice, sugar,  Commerce to designate traders for sugar-
pricing in March 1991 but    and cotton seed.            SOSUCO reoently obtained pemission to
yet to be implemend for                                  designate own traders) and to register them
sugar, rice and cotton seeds.                            (lanuary 1993).
- Abandon SOSUCO practice of reimbursing
traders for their transport costs (Assurances
already obtained, December 1992 agreed on
during Negotiation as timing for
imfplementation).
- Abolish adminisered pries for sale of
cotton seeds to domestic oil processing
industries (October 1992).



- 51 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of S
B. OBJECTIVE  Diverify exports, improve the competitiveness of cotton and livestock expo,ts, promote sub-
regional trade in ceeals in order to increase the foreign exchange amings of agrculturc.
Past Adiustment Efforts      SECAL Action Proema=          Monitorable Actions
and Schedule
1. Trade Policies: Ex3ot
Loguations
(a) Cotton: Remove           - Remove customs regulations restricting on
unnecessary export           SOFTlEX's ablity to move lint outside the
rgations.                    country (December 1992 agreed on at
Negotiations).
- Government to propose a SOF:X
conutact plan acceptable to IDA (Completed:
Condition of Negotiation)
(i) Other Export Crops:      (b) Liberalize the expowts of  - Governnent assurances that it will aboLish
private traders able to      shea butter, groundnuts, and  CSPPA registration of traders and diminate
export shea butter,          sesame                        requirement for CSPPA approval for exports
groundnuts and sesame with                                 of groundnuts, shea butter and sesame
CSPPA permission.                                          (Assurances obtained at negotiations).
- Govenmet and IDA agreement on terms
of reference for study to detmine the future
role of CSPPA (Completed: Condition of
Negotiation).
- Government Assurances on prompt
implementation of recommendatons of study
(Condition of Board Presentation, assumnces
obtained at Negotations).
(c) Cercals: Libralize trade  - Goverment to ranove all resrictions on
in ceeals.                   the export of cereals and especially on trade
in millet, sorghum, fomio, and maize (July
199Z).
(ii) Fruits and Vegdables:   d) Encourage a greaer role    - Government to eliminate speoial import
private exports operate but    for private exporters of    authorization for packaging cartons which
at a severe disadvantage to  fruits and vegetables         effectively oblige ft and vegetable
UCOBAM and Fkx-Paso.                                       exporters to purchase pacding materials from
SONACEB (December 1992).
- Government and IDA agreement on a time-
table aoceptable to IMA for disengaging from
UCOBAM (Docember 1992 obtained at
Negotiations).
- Govament reduction of its shares in FlEx-
Fuo to a maximum of 25% (Condition of
SAL 1).



- 52 -
Page 4 of S
Padt Adiutnt Effirts        SECAL Action Prom          McoitomableAoin
2. A3= iri nce
stabilno s_m
(a) Link the poducr        - Govennt to officially abolish
pric of cotton and         SOFllEX-CSPPA ag_emet on cotton
SOFITE's renuaetion        pnice stabiization and to proposn a new
to world maket pnces       cotton prce stabilization shme,
acceptable to EDA, man d by
SOFITEX, ptoducer epresenantives, and
the Government linkng the produe
price and SOFrTrs enumetion to
world maret prices  ompl in of
contrA pln agreed On at Negotiations
for October 1992).
(b) Abandonall other       - Gownm t to withdraw the price
price stabilizatio         stlizaization role of CSPPA (Govanment
schemos.                   assur_c  obtained at Negotiaton
Timing pending results of ongoing study
on fhtr role of CSPPA).
3. BB U Taxes
(i) Export rames           (a) Drastically reduce and    - Government to propose plan, acceptable
eiinated as part of SAL     rationalia pafiscad        to IDA, to eliminate or drasdcally reduce
I eform po                  taxes on expots of         the statistical tax, ONAC and CBC
griocdtemal product        charges, customs stmp. tc for all
agicultural exports (Condition of SAL I)
4. IO     euai
(a) Eiminate Al import     - IDA and Government agret on tem
restrictions except for rice  of refrence of study to deumine thk bes
Nd sugr.                   strtg for libealing th import of re
(December1 M).
- Government pol of a SOSUCO
con  plan, aceptabl to IDA, aud plan for
resrcuwing SOSUCO to rendedomesti
sugar prducon more officin (Decembr,
1992).
S. Im2azada
SubstAti agesmen on         (a) Rationalie tho stucu   - Govermet and IDA agreement on: tem
transtial tNAf aredy        of prtction f ariculr       of rfece for a suy to demine
rahed with Govnaent as    prduct and espeiay for       appropriate tdf  for doo; and sugar, leves
past of SAL I efm           rice and sur.               of protction for rice and sg  to be
prorm                                                   impmetd in December 1992 (Completed:
Cotons Neotiatios).



- 53 -
Annex L
Pagr 5 of 5
C. OBJEC[l Rationalize the interventions of ministries with a significant impact on the performance
of the agricultdal sector and improve public investment programming in agiiculture to
promote efficiency in public resource use.
Past Adiustment Efforts      SECAL Actwn Promm            Moitobte
1. Redefinition of roles of
minjgtries anda a
(i) Ministerial reorganizaton    (a) Raonaliz the roles of  - Government submitng to IDA the
started in November 1991     ministries and agencis       recommendations of the study to coordinate
opeting in the agrulurl      and rationalize the activities of ministries and
sector                      agencis whose acdvities have a significant
impact on agriculue (Condition of Second
Tranche)
- Govenment proposing an action pln and
Implemention schedule, judgod sashfcty
by IDA, for eoranizing and steamlining
te activities of the Govenmnt departmet
and agenciks intervening in the agriulual
setor (Condition of Third Tranche).
2. State Arclua
Entmris
(i) Substata agreement       (a) Rerm state eantpris      - Govermen to convert all pubic eerpris
reached with Government on    to give than mom autonomy    in the agricull soecr into either EPAs,
converfting all EPICs into   and reduce their bOSs.       SEs, or SEMs (Condition of SAL I and
SEMs, SEs or EPAs (SAL                                    Performance Review of Agricultural
I)                                                        SECAL).
3. AuriculuWal Sector Public
Investment and Bxuendituro
(i) Agrent on pocedure    (a) Improve investment          - Govemment to underke pesonnel audits
for public Investmnt and     pogrmmig in agriculture      of minist  and aences opeing in the
expenditure _p    ming       and ecsr the adequacy of     agriula sector to eliminate redundant
reached as pea of SAL I      prvisin for mantnance        staff, verify the need for a existing
reform progam.               and recurn costs.            positions, and rationalize caeer managemen
(Condition of SAL I and Pafomance Review
of Agricultural SECAL).
- IDA to rview and approve (bi-annually) the
Agricultsl Sectors revised public
Inesument progam (Condition of SAL I and
Performance Review of Agriulurl SECAL)



- 54-
Annex I;;
Page 1 of 16 pages
(Translated from French Original)
BURKINA FASO                               OUAGADOUGOU, May 4, 1992
Ministry of Finance and Planning
The Minister of Finance and Planning
No. 779/NFP/CAB                                              To
Mr. Lewis Preston
President of the World Bank
1818 H. Street NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Subiect: Statement of Agricultural
Development Policy
Mr. President,
In the context of the current exchanges of views between the
Government of Burkina Faso and its Donor Group, it would be advisable, before the
major lines of action proposed for the agriculture and livestock sector are
described below, to state the case for returning this sector to its proper place
in the economic development of the country.
Although Burkina Faso has had a relatively satisfactory history of
growth in GDP in recent years, manifested by an annual 3.5% increase in this
indicator over the 1986-1990 period, it has remained one of the group of least
developed countries, with per capita income in the vicinity of USS320 in 1990.
Despite evidence of progress, the economy remains fragile and certain economic
and financial imbalances persists in the external finances arena, for instance,
the balance of payments current account deficit (excluding public transfers)
remained at approximately 14.7% of GDP throughout the 1986-1990 period; in the
fiscal arena, arrears of payment increased significantly over the same years; and
in the domestic savings arena, the level of saving, at 5.2% of GDP in 1990, is
very weak.
In the agriculture sector, output from which represents one-third of
GDP, growth was roughly 2.5% annually for 1986-1990, mainly because of
unpredictable climatic conditions. Since this is well below the rate of growth
in GDP, and insufficient to offset annual population growth of 3%, it is of
primary importance to make this sector a focus of development efforts during the
forthcoming period (1992-1994).
Against the background of Burkina Faso's commitment to a policy of
national economic reorganisation through a Structural Adjustment Program, the
Government has set three goals for the agriculture and livestock sector:
-     modernization and diversification of productiont
-     strengthening of food security;
-     improved management of natural resources.
In pursuit of these goals, both general lines of action and specific
action programs have been decided upon.



- 55 -
Annex XXX
Page 2 of 16 pages
The lines of action mapped out require the authorities to:
-     ensure an increase in productivity through the dissemination of
intensive production technologies;
-     curb the degradation of natural resources, chiefly by instituting
necessary measures In the public arena;
-     liberalize the fixing of agricultural product prices;
-     liberalize trade in agricultural inputs and products;
-     foster private investment (their own withdrawal from production and
marketing activities being one method of doing so);
-     increase the effectiveness of public expenditure.
At the same time, specific action programs are contemplated in the
following key subsectors: grains, livestock, cotton, sugar, other industrial
crops (shea nuts, sesame, groundnuts, etc.), and fruits and vegetables.
In addition, water-supply and transport infrastructure projects
(rural access roads in particular, in the latter case) will be designed and
executed under the supervision of the ministries concerned.
1. - Policy and Su2oort Measures in Acrigulture
Sector policy is centered around five main elements.
1.1   Intensification of Droduction and natural resource manaaement
The Government will emphasize increased production, to be achieved
through intensification of cropgrowing rather than through extension of the areas
under cultivation.  Since one of its aims here is to ensure sound land-use
management, it will promote organization and training of farmers, use of inputs,
development and dissemination of appropriate farming practices and improved
varieties, and security of access to land.
Programs in agricultural research, training/extension, and support
for organizations will be designed to respond to demand from farmers and existing
markets; as far as possible, their implementation will involve association with
operators affected, under contractual arrangements with the Govarnment, which
will delegate rather than control.
The authorities have already taken decisions intended to induce the
rural population to preserve the vegetation cover by limiting woodcutting
operations, itinerant pasturing of animals, and brush fires.
In order to encourage the investment needed to increase production
and to maintain and restore soil fertility, the new land-use system proposed
includes measures which, by securing farmers" occupation rights, can be expected
to facilitate implementation of the community-based land management program now
under way.
The principles and structures enunciated in the new legislative and
regulatory instruments governing Burkina Paso's R6organisatlon agralr. et
foncibre (RAP), which affirm the existence of national lands over which the State
has full rights of ownership as well as ownership of land by private individuals,
make it possible to guarantee greater security of land tenure, formulate programs



- 56 -
AnnMxI1L
Page 3 of 16 pages
to protect and conserve the natural environment, and define a coherent framework
for integrated rural development.
The already-instituted decentralized and integrated approach to land
management (PNGT or the Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs), which calls
for the formulation and implementation of community-based land use plans, will
lead to a sustainable increase in production and to socioeconomic development.
The importance given to local communities, now to be allowed their
specific identity and consequently their own jurisdiction as opposed to
decentralized government agencies and operators, will mean that responsibility
for land use management, natural resources, and creation of basic rural (and
village) infrastructure can be left to those directly concerned, besides enabling
resources to be delegated under contractual arrangements with both central and
decentralized government departments and agencies.
1.2   Liberalization of trade and priceg
In this process, three classes of product will be distinguished from
one another:
-    Domestic  products  not  subject  to  competition  from  imports:
liberalization of trade and producer and consumer prices.
-     Domestic  prAducts  in  competition  with  imports:       internal
liberalization will be accompanied by tariff protection which will
evolve over time in a pattern designed to stimulate domestic
productivity and performance efforts (attention here being focused
particularly but not exclusively on sugar, rice, and wheat).
-      eDmestic goods intended essentially for exports product flows and
prices will be liberalized, except in the case of cotton, for which
a stabilization mechanism will be introduced.
In other words, current constraints on product flows will be lifted,
while agricultural producer prices and all input prices will be liberalized.
Following the same logic, commercial mark-ups and consumer prices will no longer
be fixed. Producer prices on export products will be liberalized, except in the
case of cotton, where a mechanism will be introduced linking the producer price
to the effective export price, while at the same time guaranteeing a floor price.
1.3   ReogaXnization of the institutional environments   role of the
Gogrment and other 2artners. and nrivatization colicy
1.3.1       Disena1gem9t by the GovernWgt and reformulation of its roles
In the agriculture and livestock sector, the Government will be
responsible for prescribing general policy outlines where the following are
concerneds
-     research;
-     extension and advisory services;
-     agricultural training;
-     land use and natural resource management
-     creation of infrastructure.



- 57 -
Ann-ex- III
Page 4 of 16 pages
-~     Responsibilities for guidance and monitoring, which will remain the
province of the Government, will be clarified and will become the principles on
which reorganization of the public sector is based.
On the other hand, the majority of the Government's other current
interventions, in particular in the areas of production and marketing, will be
transfwrred to associations of producers and private operators so that they may
profit from them.
1.3.2       Role of ocerators in rural financing:
Lending institutions should facilitate access to credit for producer.
and others engaged in the various fields of rural activity. To this end, the
following principles will be applied:
(a)   financing for the rural sector will be provided by operators and
financial intermediaries8
(b) decentralized entities and savings and loan mutuals will be
promoted;
Cc)  the Government will dispose of its capital holding in CNCA (Calsse
nationale de cr6dit agricole) to the level agreed upon in the
Structural Adjustment Program and will encourage participation in
the capital of this institution by produe-rs or producer
associations.
The present legal and financial framework will be amended so as to
allow development of different savings and decentralized credit systems, the
outlook for which is promising as regards both expansion and results.
Similarly, methods by which systems and financial intermediaries can
work in conjunction with one another will be sought, with a view to improving the
effectiveness and efficiency of the services rendered by both types of entity and
thereby benefiting the rural world.
1.3.3       Role of sogial/ocoucat0onal entitiess
Reorganization of the institutional environment calls for shouldering
of more responsibility by producers and by other parties active in production
subsectors. In this regard, promotion of social/cccupational entities will go
hand in hand wLth withdrawal by the Government and reformulation of the role of
its central and decentralized departments and agencies.
1 4   Imorovement of Eublic financial manaaement
Zffectiveness in the management of public finances will be sought
where both capital spending and current expenditure are concerned.
In accordance with the provisions of the country's Structural
Adjustment Program, any public investment project will be subject to prior
appraisal of returns and/or cost-effectiveness, and projection of recurrent
charges and proposed mothods of funding them, before it is Incorporated into the
Public Investment Program. No investment will take place outside the ambit of
the PIP.
in addition, the system of iroject implementation, administration and
ex-post evaluation will be strengthened.



- 58 -
Annex III
Page S of 16 pages
The current expenditure budget for the agriculture sector will be
restructured to allow on the one hand for withdrawal by the Government from
production and marketing activities and elimination of its control functions, and
on the other for the need to increase its effectiveness in carrying out those
functions it will retain, particularly in the arenas of research, extension,
training, and rural infrastructure maintenance.
In addition, so that a comprehensive view of expenditures in the
agricultural sector can be obtained and monitoring of their execution improved,
the structure and presentation of the budget will be revised to cover all
spending by ministries and governmental entities on agriculture, including any
financed by foreign partners through specific projects. Budgetary projections
will be improved so that account is taken of recurrent costs likely to be
generated by new projects. On the revenue side, parafiscal revenues generated
in the agriculture sector will be incorporated into the budget.
1.5   Policy to strengthen food-security strategy
The chosen strategy for improving food security is intended to:
-     reduce the chronic lack of food security in particular geographic
areas and among certain population groups;
-     improve food security during pro-harvest periods;
-     prepare the country better to deal with the consequences of drought.
To these ends, the Government is committed to:
-     creating the conditions that will lead to supply/demand balance
where foodstuffs are concernedt
-     reallocating public resources toward programs for the improvement of
food security;
-     achieving  better  administration  of  food  aid  through  careful
coordination;
-     making the information system more effective;
-     formulating policies that focus on especially disadvantaged groups
and/or zones.
2.    Action Proarams in Key Subsectors
The general outlines of these action programs, which are described
in detail in the attached Annexes, may be summarized as follows:
2.1   Graina
2.1.1       Drv arains
In this- case, the actions proposed will focus on increasing
production, improving flows, building food security, and maintaining agricultural
potential.
In order to facilitate exchanges between dry-grain surplus and
deficit zones and to promote export activ ty, the Government has decided to lift
all restrictions on grain flows throughout the country and on domestic and



- 59 -
Page 6 of 16 pages
foreign trade in them. Wheat imports alone will require prior authorization,
within the context of food security and food aid policy. Producer and retail
prices will no longer be fixed by regulation but will be allowed to find their
own levels through operation of the laws of the market.
The present functions of OFNACER, the National Grain Board, will be
limited to setting up and administering a national buffer stock and intervening
at the request of the authorities to supply deficit zones in which private
traders evince little interest. Its activities will be governed by a performance
contract.
At the same time, appropriate incentives will be used to encourage
associations of producers and traders to develop storage systems and facilities,
and support will be made available to village-based associations in the form of
training in grain inventory management.
An information system giving permanent coverage of all dry-grain
markets, and making use of all available media but particularly radio, it will
be set up to enable interested parties to make their decisions on a rational
basis. An early warning system will also be developed.
In order not to undermine national production, the Government will
bring into place an appropriate system for the management of emergency
assistance.
2.1.2       Rice
Given the increase in consumer demand for rice and very high capital
cost of full-scale irrigation developments, production of both rainfed and
lowland rice will be actively encouraged. The pricing and domestic trading of
paddy and rice will be liberalized, while hulling and collection activities will
be handed over to the private sector and producer organizations.   A protective
tariff will be put in place. This tariff will take into account the necessity
to maintain consumer prices at reasonable levels while, at the same time,
providing adequate time for productivity gains in domestic rice production to be
realized.
Irrigation schemes currently being developed will be limited in area
and attention concentrated on experiments with different conditions and
procedures (e.g. land use arrangements and irrigation system operation) under
which the new facilities might best be handed over to water uses themselves; the
results will be observed and their cost-effectiveness evaluated.
2.2   Livestika
Livestock farming will be developed through actions focused
simultaneously on pastoralism and sedentary stockraising.
Pastoral activities will be facilitated within the context of the
Programme natIonal de gestion des terro1rn (PNGT), while sedentary stock-raising
will be encouraged and supported through measures to ensure breeders' rights to
occupy land, promotion of this aspect cf aeduntary farming constituting the first
step toward achievement of the neces3ary associatioui between cropgrowing and
stockraising.
Increased animal production will be fostered, chiefly bys better
management of natural pastures; readier accese to inputs (through privatization
of production and distribution of these commodities); active development and
strengthening of producer aLssciations; and measures to liberalize trading.



- 60 -
Page 7 of 16 pages
Exports of cattle on the hoof and beef will be encouraged by improving
awareness of and information on market factors, more rational organization of the
subsector, and coordinated efforts at the regional level to eliminate official and
non-official obstacles to export.  Pilot operations to enhance the value of
livestock products and byproducts will be continued and intensified.
Taxing of the animal production subsector will simultaneously
encourage post-production activities (processing, marketing) and facilitate
exports. In particular, current export duties and charges will be eliminated.
2.3   goton
The policy of promoting cotton production will be continued by
intensifying production systems which guarantee soil conservation and restoration.
The implication here is that the management of each growing season needs to be
much tighters clear formulation of objectives, rigorous monitoring throughout the
season, access to information, appropriate training and advice, and better
coordination among the entities which intervene in the production process.
Village-based associations will continue collecting the harvest from
growers. Efforts will be made to diversify export markets, mainly through better
utilization of distribution channels.
SOFITEX will continue to handle initial processing as well as
domestic- and external-market sales. Its activities will be the subject of a
performance contract, which will mean that stabilization arrangements and the
pricing system can be put on a new footing.  CSPPA will be relieved of the
stabilization function it has had until now.
A stabilization fund will be set up to support the producer floor price
should the world market situation be unfavorable.   To function initially on
contributions from Burkina's development partners, this fund will be administered
by a management board consisting of representatives of producers, SOFITEX and the
group of external partners; the Government will be represented on it only during
the transitional period, until the Fund is fully operational.
2.4   Suaar
Four principles will be followed where this subsector is concerned:
(a)   reorganization of SOSUCO so as to cut back its production costs;
(b)   continuation of the monopoly on imports (under SOSUCO supervision) and
introduction of a tax on the CPA? price of sugar imported during the
period of subsector reorganization -- a tax which will be commensurate
with SOSUCO financial constraints, serve as an incen-tive to least-cost
production, and keep the consumer price stable;
(c)   liberalization of domestic trading  and prices  (elimination of
approval and authorization);
(d)   privatization of SOSUCO, with diversification of shareholders.
The rights and obligations of both the Government and SOSUCO within
the context of the agriculture component of the Structural Adjustment Program will
be specified in a performance contract between them.



- 61 -
Annex UI
Page 8 of 16 pages
2.5   other industrial crog
Where groundnuts, shea nuts and sesame are concerned, prices, trading
and export will be liberalized. The present stabilization system will then be
eliminated, although operators directly engaged in the production of these
commodities may opt for a stabilization system in which the authorities do not
intervene.
CSPPA will no longer have a stabilization function but will be
converted into a mixed-investment company engaged in the marketing of agri-
cultural products under conditions of normal competition with other commercial
intermediaries. It will be privatized gradually, in accordance with the strategy
decided upon for mixed-investment companies within the context of the Structural
Adjustment Program.
2.6   Fruits and vecetables
The following three principles will be followed where this sub-sector
is concerned:
-     cooperatives and exporters will be allowed to formulate their own
contracting policies directly;
-     liberalization of trading;
a full withdrawal by the Government from VOOBAI after clearance of
outstanding balances in consultation with the various partners
affected.
In order to improve the functioning of the subsector and mitigate the
main constraints under which it now operates, the Government undertakes to
facilitate its organization through an entity that will bring together the main
interested parties. In the arena of applied research, the main focus will be on
medium-term programs which have been formulated with input from operators and are
consistent with market demands. To be carried out by already existing specialized
research bodies, these programs will be cof inanced by the Government and subsector
professional organizations. In addition, Regulations designed to guarantee the
free play of competition in the subsector and transparency in its functioning will
be issued. The supply of inputs for it will be liberalized.
3.          Institutions
To ensure successful implementation of the agriculture component of
the Structural Adjustment Program, an interministerial monitoring and evaluation
unit will be set up under the sponsorship of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock. Assisted by a technical committee chaired by that ministry, it will
consist of representatives of other ministries (Planning, Cooperation, Environment
and Tourism, Water Resources, Rural Affairs, Trade, etc.), as well as of
professional organizations.
In conclusion, it may be noted again that if Burkina Paso is to
achieve its objectives in the macroecontomic arena, then particular attention must
be paid to the agriculture sector.



- 62 -
AnnXex IIIr
Page 9 of 16 pages
The principal measures constituting the core of the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program are summarized and attached as annex to this
declaration.
In view of the World Bank's willingness to support Burkina Paso's
development efforts so far, I am confident it will give favorab'e consideration
to this request for a structural adjustment credit for the benefit of the
country's agriculture sector.
Yours,
Fr6d6ric Assomption Korsaga
(Minister of Finance and Planning)



- 63 -
Annex III
Page 10 of 16 pages
BURKINA FASO
Aariculture Sector Adiustment Proaram
Matrix of Proososd Principal Measures
GOALS/SUB-GOALS                         MEASURES                         TIMETABLE
A.  XNTENSIFiCATION OF      1. Enactment of new law, etc.,
PRODUCTION AND          governing RAF (agrarian
NATURAL RESOURCE        reorganization):
MANAGEMEGNT             *   publication of law;                     Completed
* issue of implementing regulations
(Decree, Order, Circular, etc.);       1992-1994
* public information/sensitization re
RAF law and regulations.               1992-1994
2. Evaluation of experiments in
community land management.
- Enactment of law/regulations on:
* status of CVGTs (Community
Land Management Commissions);    End of 1992
* aspects of decentralization
(specifically, procedures for
delegation of responsibilities
and financing).                   End of 1992
3. Evaluation of introduction of RAF
law and implementing regulations
(community lands, community forests,
irrigation development): 1st National
seminar:                                   Jan-Feb 1993
S. LIT8RALIZATION OF        4. Enactment of law/regulations             Completed
TRADF AND PRICES        eliminating all export monopolies on
agricultural products except cotton.
5. Enactment of law/regulations
eliminating import monopolies on
agricultural products except sugar,
wheat and rice.                             3rd quarter 1992
6. Enactment of law/regulations for
reorganization of NGO import systems
(sugar, rice, oil, wheat flour).           3rd quarter 1992
7. Enactment of law/regulations
liberalizing trade in agricultural
inputs.                                    Completed
S. Enactment of law/regulations
eliminating fixing of producer prices.    Completed



- 64 -
Annex III
Page 11 of 16 pages
Aarigulture Sector Ad4ustment Procram
Matrix of Procosed Principal Measures
ooaLs/SUB-oAL8                         MQEASURES                        TIMETABLE
9. Enactment of law/regulations
eliminatlng approval of all retail
prices.                                    Completed
10. Elimination of CBC/ONAC parafiscal
taxes; reduction of export-statistics      See Structural
taxes; removal of administrative           Adjustment Program
impediments to exports.                    (SAP)
11. Enactment of law/regulations
liberalizinq exports of agricultural
products and repeal of the Notice to
Importers and Exporters No. 92-
066/MICM/DGC/DCE of 19 February 1992
concerninq exports of agricultural
products                                   July 1, 1992
grains                      12. Put in place grain tariff
protection system.                         End of 1992
Specafl measures           13. Formulation and implementation of
affecting rice              rice policys
c continuation of monopoly on
imports;
*   liberalization of domestic prices.    lst quarter 1992
p privatization of SONACOR and
elimination of direct and indirect
subsidies granted to it.               End 1992/early 1993
Livestock                   14.  Enactment of law/regalations
eliminating taxes on livestock and meat
exports.                                   Completed
15. Issue of regulations governing set-
up and operation of private enterprises
and supply and distribution of
vetorinary pharmaceutical yJroducts.       End of 1992
16. Legislation repealing the livestock
tax.                                       Completed
17. Introduction by ONAVET of market
prices for veterinary pharmaceutical
products.                                  End of 1992
cotton                      18. Removal of administrative obstacles
to pro-export of cotton (e.g. Customs
"removal order," etc.).                    End of 1992
19. Elimination of official cottonseed
selling prices.                            October 1992



- 65 -
Annex II I
Page 12 of 16 pages
Aarieultur 8 ctor, AdJutmmt_P
Matrix of Prooosed Principal masureg
GOALS/SUB-GOALS                       MEASURES                        TINTABLE
Sugar                      20. Transfer of sugar import monopoly
from COGP to SOSUCO                       End of 1992
21. Enactment of legislation
eliminating Government approval of
traders.                                  End of 1992
22. Enactment of legislation
eliminating control of sugar prices.      Completed 1991
23. Enactment of legislation
eliminating (i) approval of prices and
(ii) cross-subsidization of transport
costs.                                    Completed 1991
24. Introduction of tariff system
protection.                               End of 1992
Fruits and Vegetables      25. Removal of obstacles to the import
of packaging cartons                      End of 1992
C. REORGANIZATION oF       26. Reformulation of the roles of
INSTITUTIONAL          Office national du commerce extdriour
ENV ROUN!sTt ROLES    (ONAC), Consell Burkinabb de& chargeurs
OF GOVERNMENT AND       (CEC), Caisse de stabiliaatlon des prix
OTHER PARS, MND    des prodults agrlcoles (CSPPA), and
PRIVATIZATION POLICY   Calase g&ndrale de p6rdquation (COP).      (See SAP)
27. Redesign and reorganization of
central and regional government
departments and agencies active in
rural world; procedures for and
conditions surrounding transfer of
responsibilities to village
associations and professional
organizationst
* formulation of terms of reference
for studys                            3rd quarter 1992
*   selection of consultants;             3rd quarter 1992
*  comsenc _ nt of study                  4th quarter 1992
* examination of study
recommendations;                      2nd quarter 1993
* commencement of implementation of
recommendations.                      lot half 1994
28. Formation of interministerial
committee to monitor/evaluate
agriculture component of Structural       At Program
Adjustment Program.                       effectiveness



- 66 -
Annex III
Page 13 of 16 pages
Aariculture Sector Adlustment Proaram
atrLxz of Pronosed Princical measures
GOALS/suB-GOALS                        KKASUUS                          TIMMEABLE
Quality Controls            29.  Evaluation and rehabilitation of
national system of controlling quality
of all foodstuffs and agricultural
inputs brought to market:
* formulation of terms of reference
for study;
* selection of consultants;
* commencement of study;
*   examination of study                   (SEE SAP)
recommendations;
* commencement of implementation of
recommendations.
30. Adoption of a rural roads
rehabilitation and extension program,      See Transport
to be funded as recommended in study on   Sector Adjustment
rural roads (ECT Component of              and Investment
Structural Adjustment Program).            Program (TSAIP)
Grains                      31. Enactment of laws/regulations
governing creation, powers and
operation of organizations to
monitor/evaluate and administer grain
policy:
- National Committee for Grain
Policy Coordination, and its
permanent secretariat;               2nd half of 1992
- Grain Development Fund;                    It
- Committee for Food Security Data
Coordination;                              I
- Institute of Food and Nutrition
Technology.                          1992 - 1994
Livestock                   32. Legal protection of livestock
routes and decentralization of their
management; enactment of legislation on
utilization of livestock routes.           End of 1992
33. Creation of committee of
professionals to advise on and monitor
Livestock Action Plan.                     End of 1994
34. Conduct of study to examine
creation, powers and operation of
Livestock Development Fund.                let quarter 1993
35. Set-up of system to monitor and
compile data on dairy production.          End of 1992



- 67 -
Annex III
Page 14 of 16 pages
SON  PASO
hariculture Seator Adiustmit promt
Matrix of Proposed Pringival Measures
GOAS/SUB-OALS                           mEASUS                           TIMETABLE
36.  Audit of office national
vdtdrinalre (ONAVET), and Centre
national avicol- (CNA), slaughterhouse
cold stores, the Como6 feed-lot --
preliminary to Government withdrawal/
privatization.                              1992-1994
cotton                      37.  Introduction of performance
contract between Government and
SOFITEX:
-   drafting of performance contract;       In progress
e entry into effect of performance
contract                               October 1992
38. Cancellation of Development Fund
levies.                                    End of 1992
Sugar                       39.  Introduction of performance
contract between Government and SOSUCO:
*   drafting of performance contract;       In progress
signature and entry into effect of
performance contract.                  End of 1992
40. Privatization of SOSUCO:
* analytic evaluation of financial
structure;                              In progress
* set-up of database on likely
partners, utilizing studies already
completed.                             2nd half of 1992
41.  Finalization of plans for              End of 1992
financial reorganization of SOSTUCO.
Other Industrial Crops      42.  Audit of SOFIVAR and study on
reformulation of its rights and duties,
with view to withdrawal by Government.    End of 1992
Fruits and Vegetables       43.  Reduction of Government shares in
FLEX-FASO to limits agreed upon in the
SAP.                                        (See SAP)
44. Complete withdrawal by Government
from UCOBAM and settlement of its
financial situation.                        End of 1992
D. IMPROVEMENT OF           45.  Preparation of annual capital
PuDLIC rINANcIAL            spending budgets, adhering to PIP
MPRNRCFKGU                  standards.                                   (see SAP)



- 68 -
Annex III
Page 15 of 16 pages
DURKNA FASo
Aericulturg Sector Adjustment prooras
Matrix of Pronosed Princinal Measures
GOfiLS/5I38-GOMS                       yMEASURES                        TIMETABLE
46. Preparation of annual operating
budgets for the agriculture sector,
covering spending funded from both
budgetary and donor sources and
allowing for structural changes
introduced.                                (See SAP)
47. Application to the fruits and
vegetables subsector of new taxing
arrangements consietent with those
affecting the other subsectors.             (See SAP)
Improvement of Food         48.  Implementation of recommendations
Security                    by national seminar on coordination and
management of food security
information; establishment of the
Information Coordination Committee
(CCI).                                     End of 1992
49. Design and Set-up of an efficient
emergency management system.               1992 - 1993
50. Enactment of legielation limiting
role of OFNACER (National Grain Board):
- Drafting of Government-OPNACER
performance contract;                In progress
- Entry into effect of Government-
OFEACER performance contract         End of 1992



- 69 -
Annex I rI
Page 16 of 16 pages
LIST OF ACRONDMS USED rN THE MATRIX
CBC               Conseil burkinab6 des chrgeurs
CGP               Caisse g6ndral, de per6quation
CILSS             Comit4 permanent Inter-Etats de lutte contre la s4cheresso
dans le Sahel - ICDCS (Permanent Inter-State Cosmmittee for
Drought Control in the Sahel)
CNA               Centre nationale avicole
CNCA              Caisse nationals de credit agricole
CNLES             Commission nationale de lutte contre lea effets do la
aecherosse
CSPPA             Caisse do stabilisation des prix dos produits agricoles
CVGT              Comiselon villageol.s de gestion dos terroars
DIAPER            SystAs. de Diagnostic Permanent (CILSS)
SPA               Etablixsarent public A caractre adainistratif
EPIC              Etablissoment public A caractere administratif ou commercial
PEWS              Farming Early Warning System (USAID)
FLEX PASO         Socift6 des Fruits et L6gumes du Burkina Paso
GrEws             Clobal Information and Early Warning System on Food and
Agriculture (FAO)
3V                Groupement villagooia
INERA             Institut d'Etudes et de recherchos agricoles
OFNACER           Offiee national dos eOrEales
ONAC              Office national du commerce exterteur
ONAVET            Office national vAt6rinaire
pIP               Programme d'investisse_ent public
RAF               R6organisation agraire et foncibro
SAP               SystAme d'Alerte Pr6coce (FAO/UNDP)
SEX               Soclete d'econoie moixte
SOPITEX           Soclite burkinab6 des fibres textiles
SOPIVAR           SociEtd de Financement et do Vulgarisation de l'Arachide
SONACOR           SociEte nationale do collocte, de traitement et do
coamercialisation du ris
SOSU8 O           SociEtE sucniAre de la Comao
UCOBAN            Union burklnabA des cooperatives maralchAres



- 70 -
Annex IV
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Timetable of Key Credit Processing Events:
a)    Time taken to prepare credit:      13 months
b)    Credit Prepared by:               Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
C)    First IDA Preparation Mission:    November 1990
d)    Appraisal Mission:                 November 1991
e)    Planned Negotiations:             April 1992
f)    Planned date Board Presentation:  June 1992



PACE     1                                                                                         ANNEX V
- 71 -                 Run Time: 0W/11/92 at 11.42.21
BKINA FASo
Status Of Bark 6rotp Operations In BRKINA FASO
PFOBR25 - Sumary Statmnt Of Loam and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 3/30/92 - MIS data as of 05/02/92)
By Country
Country:   BURKINA FASO
Amount In USS millIon
(less cancellatIons)
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                                 Undls- Closing
Credit No.     Year  Borrower                        Purpose                     Bank         IDA    bursed   Date
Credits
27 Credits(s) closed                                                                        214.84
C1482U-8R     1984   BURKINA FASO                    PERKOA MINtG EX.& TA                    7.40      2.58  12/31/91(R)
C15500-BUR(S)  1985   BURKINA FASO                   FERTILIZER CREIT                        9.23       5 53 06/30/92(R)
C15980-8R     1985   BURKINA FASO                    EDUCATION III                          21.80      10.27 08/30/92
C1807040      1985   BURKINA FASO                    HEALTH I                               26.60      13.23 07/31/92(R)
C1896804UR    1988   BURKINA FASO                    AG RESEAROi                            17.90      12.60 03/31/94
C1979048UR    1989   BURKINA FASO                    AGRIC. SERVICES                        42.00      30.17  12/31/94
C20870-8W     1990   BURKINA FASO                    UR8AN                                  22.20      22.76 06/30/96
CZ22904WB     1991   BLRKINA FASO                    ENVlRONMENTAL iGiT                     18.50      14.90 12/31/98
C224404BUR    1991   BURKINA FASO                    EDUCATION IV                           24.00      23.70 08/30/98
C22810840R(S)  1991   BURKINA fASO                   SAL I                                  80.00      42.683  0/30/93
C22820-BUR    1991   BURKINA FASO                    PUBLIC WORKS 8 EbPLO                   20.00      17.96 08/30/95
'  C2332D-140R    1992   BWRKINA fASO                    TRANSPORT SECAL                       86.00      67.73  12/31/96
TOTAL nurber Credits -   12                                                                  353.43    264.05
TOTAL***                                                                    568.27
of which repaId                                                             8.99
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                                    559.28
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                      264.05
Notes:
a Not yet effective
*  Not yet sigrW
Total Approved, Repamnts and outstanding balan  represent both active and Inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) Indlcates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loas and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bark Repaymnts are historical value, alI others are market value.
The Signing, Effective  and Closing dates are based up  te Loan Departnt off Ical data and are not taken
from the Task BudWt file.



IBRD 20660
15                          4'                          F                           F                                /            S       < 't, _               A     ,       MAURITANIA    _
-MALI         / NIGER
OUDALAN               /                                            uuR&JNA 
BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                                        4                                             F    NA'7I IA
- ,    l      YATENGA              )          7a                        t        /*.     
4                 BAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                        IEI
blr~~~~ ~ ~ ~~ i                                                                                                                                               -UJEC 
140 ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    .0
lf t 9~~~~~~~0                                              S XR   O U -  \Z    13.
,_ j > --8 2 << 9R-9 B A Z E Y A -4 X ' ,OUBRITENG   TA OA 
}   t1  <.                              aw.e                       G            H          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c  ANZ ..         ,
12'                 COMOf                               2S   I                                                                                                                  -
9   '$   /   -t S    .<<          f                               '   0NT                                                               ED    N:leni G=t                             g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RI  T A 
%                                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
COTE    E) D'IVOIRET'  \
/ r                                                                                                                                      Airports ,\  f  1.  r  '    '    9 Prs^E;i GH   
0                                                                                                                                           Pa~~~~~~~~~~~______________~RvedRs ad
(I   Province Capitals
000400,10005*1,0000(0-- (5 05 O 0000.                                         ---Province Boundairies
10-P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~e,t C4004  00040,004000(,00000004  0                                                                          nterotianal Boundarias
c5TE                  D'IVOIRE
SEPTEMBER 1I6



