Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15571
TNPLEMENATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2381-BUR)
APRIL 23, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 01/01/996)
Currency Unit =   CFA franc
US$1           =   495 CFA francs
SDR I          =   US$1 40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG. SECAL            Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
CAS                  Countrv Assistance Strategy
CFD                  (Caisse Francaise de Developpement)
CGP                  General Equalization Board (Caisse Generale de Perequation)
CNA                  National Poultry Center (Centre National Avicole)
CONASUR              National Comittee for emergency relief (Comite National pour les s6cours d'urgence)
CRPA                 Regional Center for the Promotion of Agriculture and Livestock) (Centre Regional de
1'romotion Agro-Pastorale)
CSPPA                Agricultural Prices Stabilization Fund (Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits
Agricoles)
FODEL                Livestock Development Fund (Fonds de Developpement de I 'Elevage)
GATT                 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GMB                  Burkina Milling Company (Grands Moulins du Burkina)
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
LPDA                 Letter of Agricultural Development Policy (Lettre de Politique de Developpment Agricole)
MARA                 Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministere de l 'Agriculture et des Ressources
Animalesy
OFNACER              Cereal Marketing Board (Office National dies Cereales)
ONAVET               National Veterinarv Board (Office National Veterinaire)
PFP                  Policv Framework Paper
PIP                  Public Investment Program (Programme dcInvestissements Publics)
PNGT                 National Program for Village Land Use (Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs)
SAC                  Structural Adjustment Credit
SOFITEX              Cotton Company (Societe des Fibres Textiles)
SONACOR              National Rice Milling Company (Societe Nationale de Collecte du Riz)
SONAGESS             Security Stock Management Companv (Societe Nationale de Gestion du Stock de Securite)
SOSUCO               Sugar Company of Comoe (Societe Sucrire de la Como6)
UCOBAM               Vegetable Cooperatives Union (Union des Cooperatives Agricoles et Maralch&res du
Burkina)
UEMOA                West African Economic and Monetarv Union (Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest-
Africaine)
VAT                  Value Added Tax
WFP                  World Food Program
Burkina Faso's currency is the (CFA franc), which is pegged to the French franc (FF). Until January 12.
1994. the parity of the CFA franc to the French franc was 50 to 1. Since then it has been at 100 to 1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENT
Page
PREFACE  ........................................................................................................................................
EVALUATION   SUMMARY   ............................................................................ i
PART I - PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................................... I
A.  INTRODUCTION                                     .............................................................. I
B. PROGRAM  OBJECTIVES ............................................................................ 2
1. Statement of Program   Objectives ......................                                ...................................... 2
2. Evaluation  of Objectives ............................................................                                               2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM  OBJECTIVES ....................................................................... 3
1. Intensification  and management of natural resources .........................                                   ..................... 3
2. Trade and Price Liberalization  ...................                                 ......................................... 4
3. Reorganization  of the institutional environment ....................................................... 6
(a) Restructuring  of public  institutions involved  in  rural development ........                                      ............ 6
(b) Divestiture of the State and  Privatization ........................................................... 6
(c) Cotton  sub-sector -  Performance  contract with  SOFITEX   ..........                                       ..................... 7
(d) Sugar sub-sector.  Performance contract with  SOSUCO  ...........                                           ....................... 8
4.  Improvement of publicfinancial management . ........................................................ 9
5.  F ood     security                                                     ............................................................ 9
D. MAJOR  FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROGRAM .................................................................. 10
E.  PROGRAM  SUSTAINABILITY  ...................................1......................................... 1
F.  BANK  PERFORMANCE ............................................................................ 12
G. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ............................................................................                                     12
H. ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ............................................................................. 13
I.   FUTURE OPERATIONS  .........................................13.......................................................... 13
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................... 13
PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ......................................... 15
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .........................................                                                                 15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS ......................................... 17
TABLE  3:  PROJECT  TIMETABLE                         .................... .................................................................... 1 8
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL    .................. 18
TABLE  5: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                  ............................................ 18
TABLE  6: STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT ....................................................................                               19
TABLE  7: PROJECT FINANCING ....................................................................                                          20
TABLE  8: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ....................................................................                                   20
TABLE  9:  BANK  RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS  .................................................................... 22
TABLE  10: BANK  RESOURCES:  MISSIONS ......................................................................... 23
ANNEX: Comments of the Borrower
Tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATriON COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2381 - BUR)
PREFACE
This is the lmplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Credit (AG. SECAL I) in Burkina Faso, for which Credit 2381 - BUR in the amount of
SDR 20.6 million equivalent was approved on June 6, 1992 and made effective on August 31, 1993.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995, compared with an initial closing date of
December 31, 1994 The first tianche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by December
1993. The second and third tranches were released in June 1995, and the Credit was fully disbursed
by December 13, 1995. Parallel financing of the program was provided by the European Union and
the Government of France
The ICR was prepared by Alec Bouchitte, consultant, under the supervision of Adolfo Bnzzi
(Task manager, AF4AE). It was reViewed by Hans-Martin Boehmer (AF4CO), Cynthia Cook,
Division Chief (AF4AE), and Franz Kaps, Operations Advisor (AF4DR)..
Preparation of this ICR was begun after the Bank's final supervision mission in November,
1995. It is based oni material in the program files, including the President's Report, the Letter of
Agricultural Development Policy, supervision reports, progress reviews on the occasion of tranche
releases and other related documents. Borrower's comments to this report are attached in the Annex.
The Borrower has also prepared a full implementation completion report which is available upon
request The conclusionis of the report are also attached.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2381 - BUR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Prior to the adjustment program, the Bank played a limited role in Burkina Faso's economic
development, focusing its sector investments mainly in agriculture (integrated rural development
projects and fertilizer credit), transport, health and education. Relations between the Bank and Burkina
deteriorated to the point where no new credits were approved in 1986 and 1987. Relations improved
sinficantly with a new Government coming to office in late 1987 and lending resumed in 1988.
Preparation of the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) was initiated in 1989. SAC I negotiations
took place in May 1991 and the Credit became effective in September 1991. A first Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) was also approved in early 1991. In parallel, preparation of the present Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Credit (AG. SECAL I) was started in 1991, presented to the Board in June 1992 and
became effective in August 1993. Moreover, in accordance with the Country Assistance Strategy, a
first set of investment operations was approved in the period 1988-1992 in the field of Agricultural
Research, Agricultural Services and Extension, Natural Resource Management and Food Security.
Program objectives
2.    The Credit supports the adjustment program  spelled out in the Government's Letter of
Agnicultural Development Policy of May 4, 1992 (LPDA). It aims at deepening and extending to the
agricultural sector the reforms undertaken through SAC I in order to: (i) modemize and diversify
agricultural production; (ii) increase food security;, and (iii) improve natural resource management.
The main objectives of the agriculture sector adjustment program were fivefold:
(a)    providing  adequate legal and regulatory framework to improve the land tenure
systems, stabilize the small farmers on their land, and facilitate community-based
natural resources management;,
(b)   liberalizing trade (external and domestic) and prices of agricultural products, including
traditional cereals, rice, oil seeds, wheat, fruits, vegetable, livestock, cotton and sugar;
(c)   reorganizing the sector institutional environment, including (i) restructuring of public
institutions involved in rural development, at central and local levels, (ii) privatization
of inefficient parastatals, and (iii) signature of performance contracts wi'th the cotton
and sugar companies;



- ii -
(d)   improving public financial management, especially the public investment program
(PIP) and operating budgets; and
(e)   reducing the role of the State (through parastatals) in the domestic grain market, to the
management of the national security stock, food aid and market information svstems.
3     To achieve the objectives, fifty measures were identified and presented in the policy matrix
annexed to the LPDA. Core measures were selected to constitute the conditions of tranche releases of
the Credit in the field of tariff reform, signature of performance contracts, restructuring of the Ministry
of Agriculture and privatization.
4     Overall, the objectives of the adjustment program are clearly set out and consistenit with the
country development strategy. The measures of the policy matrix are relevant and cover most of the
key aspects of the sector strategy. However, it appears that the scope of the measures in the policy
rnatnx was over-ambitious and the timetable for implementation optimistic, as full completion would
require further support and time, possibly through a second sector adjustment operation. Also, the
conditiorialities for second and third tranche release could have been more focused and less dependent
on assessments to be made of satisfactory implementation of action plans. Furthermoie, some key
aspects could have been more developed in the LPDA such as: (i) water and irrigation policies, in
relation with natural resource management; (ii) social and poverty issues, including impact on living
standards and nutrition status; (iii) improvement of human resource management within the ciVil
service; (iv) organizational arrangements of the adjustment process, to ensure better coordination
among the institutions involved; and (v) definition of impact indicators, conceming inter alia
competitiveness of key sub-sectors and farmers revenues.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The objectives of AG. SECAL I have been partially achieved. Progress has been substantial in
trade and price liberalization, tariff reform, strengthening of cotton and sugar sub-sectors, and food
security.  Important delays have been observed for other key reforms including land laws,
reorganization of Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MARA), privatization, and improvement of
public financial management.
6.    In the field of liberalization, domestic trade and exports of livestock and of most agricultural
products have been fully liberalized with the elimination of monopolies, price controls, stabilization
schemes and export taxes. Import monopolies and price control remain for sugar and rice (elimination
was not included in the policy matrix). For cotton, as agreed in the performance contract, the unique
cottoni company keeps the monopoly on seed cotton primary marketing and on lint export; seed cotton
prices are still set by the Government. The tariff reform is well under way as the proposals of a
specific study (up-dated following the CFA franc devaluation in January 1994) have been reviewed
and new tariffs will likely be enforced in 1996.
7.    The performance contract (Contract Plan) for the cotton sutb-sector was signed as plaruned in
.January 1992, between the State and the cotton company (SOFITEX). Agricultural Prices Stabilization
Fund (CSPPA) was stripped of its stabilization  role while providing SOFITEX with increased
managemenit autonomy, this proved benefiz2al to the functioning of the sub-sector. Moreover, the CFA
franc devaluation, together with an incre,cse of world marlket prices, led to an increase onf seed conon



- iii -
prices and permitted the recovery of production (although moderate) and the restoration of SOFITEX's
financial situation. An amendment to the Contract Plan was signed (with considerable delay) in July
1995 as a consequence of the devaluation and proved highly controversial as it appeared mainly geared
to comfort SOFITEX's financial situation at the expense of a better price structure for the farmers The
Contract Plan, although it facilitated the restructuring of the subsector, did not live up to its objectives
of stimulating renewed growth for the cotton sector, and Government intervention remains substantial.
Future reform of the cotton sub-sector would have to include further measures such as clarification of
the fiscal situation of SOFITEX, improvement of the pricing policy, elimination of fertilizer subsidies,
improvement of SOFITEX management, and rehabilitation of cotton producers' associations. In the
sugar sub-sector, the unique sugar company (SOSUCO) has been rehabilitated with success and a
performance contract between SOSUCO and the Govemment was signed to cover the period 1992/93
to 1997/98. It permitted to restore a satisfactory level of efficiency and, thanks to the CFA franc
devaluation, of competitiveness. Again, the Contract Plan has introduced rigidities (import monopoly,
transport equalization) which may prove detrimental to the liberalization efforts.
8.    The draft land law is still under discussion in the national Parliament. It includes several
provisions which would allow individual farmers to obtain official titles providing for sufficient securt
on their land. However, it appears that it may not prove very flexible and pragmatic in allowing for
operational mechanisms to facilitate community-based land management and close attention should be
paid to the practical feasibility of the new legal provisions.
9.    A first set of studies was completed in 1993 on the restructuring of MARA  and its
decentralized agencies. Some resistance within the civil service and divergence among donors led to
delays in decision taking. Eventually, after a national workshop held in May 1995, the Government set
the principles and objectives of the restructuring and launched detailed operational studies which have
been completed in December 1995. The restructuring process should start in 1996.
10.   Privatization is well behind schedule and the two parastatals which were supposed to be sold
to private entrepreneurs (CSPPA) and National Rice Milling Company (SONACOR) are still operated
by the State or are in receivership. Such difficulties are mainly due to insufficient preparation of the
privatization, inadequate handling of the privatization process by the national commission, pooI
profitability of the entities to be privatized, and limited number of potential buyers. A waiver had to be
granted to permit tranche release.
11.   Little progress has been made in the improvement of public finance, especially the
management of the Public Investment Program (PIP). Greater efforts should be made to ensure better
selection of projects, consistency with development policies, better assessment of recurrent costs and
to avoid a classical donor driven approach.
12.   A major factor affecting the program has been the devaluation of the CFA franc in January
1994, along with the upward trend of the intemational prices of a number of agricultural commodities,
particularly those for cotton. This has had a major positive impact on the reforms program by helping
restoring the competitiveness and profitability of the various agricultural sub-sectors. Government
changes and the rotation of staff led to some discontinuity, loss of institutional memory and some
disruption in the implementation and monitoring of the reform agenda.



- iv -
13.   Overall, the Bank performance has been satisfactory. Support to the Borrower for the design
of sector policies and preparation of the Credit was thorough and intensive.  However, the
reorganization of the Africa Region of 1994 and resulting staff movements led to a period of
discontinuity and deficiencies in pursuing close supervision and donor coordination until the change in
task management in 1995, which required a new adaptation period. The Borrower's perfornance was
highly satisfactory during the preparation of the adjustment program, which was comprehensive,
participatory and consistent with the new national economic policy. During implementation, the
performance was deficient on a number of aspects, mainly because of weak commitment and capacity
at the intermediate level of the administration, insufficient planning and monitoring of the reforms, and
lack of coordination of the various ministries and public institutions involved. Borrower's performance
was overall satisfactory on covenant compliance.
14.   The Outcome of the AG. SECAL I can be considered satisfactory, as substantial progress has
been achieved, especially in the fields of price and trade liberalization for traditional cereals, livestock
and oilseeds, tariff reform, rehabilitation of the cotton and sugar sub-sector, and food security.
However, full completion and sustainability of some measures and reforms need further support.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key lessons learned
15.   The summary of findings and key lessons are the following:
*  Preparation and implementation of the program should have explicitly included appropriate
consultation and monitoring arrangements (involving the Parliament, the economic
operators and the civil society), and more flexible planning, in order to broaden ownership
and adapt to changes deriving from the democratization process.
*  To increase commitment and reduce the risks of reversals, adjustment programs should
contribute to increase the political and economical influence of farmers by setting an
adequate legal framework which would facilitate their political representation, and
supporting the development of farmer organizations at national, regional and local levels.
*  Contract-Plans (cotton and sugar) between a State-company and the State should have
permitted a better definition of the contractual obligations of the two parties and provided
for a framework of actions in the context of increased autonomy. In practice: (i) they did
not prevent State interference; (ii) they proved difficult to amend and therefore introduced
rigidities when changes appeared necessary; and (iii) performance objectives over a five
year period became quickly obsolete and irrelevant.
*  Privatization efforts need to be supported by a better knowledge of the real situation and
potential for private sector involvement. Restoration of profitability may be required prior
to privatization through restructuring and rehabilitation. Technical Ministries should be
more involved in the privatization process. Transfer of public monopolies to private hands
is a risk that should be addressed early on through better support to the management of the
privatization process.



Program  Management Units for sectoral adjustment operation under technical line
Ministries have difficulties in assuring the required leadership, coordination and credibility
with respects to intersectoral issues vis-a vis the rest of the Govemment and particularly
with respect to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Commerce. In these cases,
responsibilities should rather be entrusted to the Ministry of Finance or the Pnrme
Minister's Office.
16.   The first process of sector adjustment has been marked during implementation by a major
devaluation of the currency. The agricultural sector possess todays a number of assets including
restoration of competitiveness, a stabilized macro-economic environment, and the completion of a
number of important reforms. However, the Govemment agrees that to return to a high growth path, it
is necessary to deepen and complete the reform measures initiated under the first operation. A second
agnculture sector adjustment program which is building and expanding on the results of AG. SECAL
I, including addressing some key unfinished policy agenda items, is now under preparation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR 2381 - BUR)
PART I - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Introduction
1.    Burkina Faso is a landlocked country, with a population of about 10 million and ranks among
the world's poorest countries (GNP per capita of US$290 in 1994). Population growth remains arotnd
3 percent per annum. The agricultural sector accounts for about 40 percent of GDP and is the main
source of income for 80 percent of the population. Burkina's exports remain dominated by three
primary commodities: (i) cotton, (ii) livestock, mostly exported to coastal countries, and (iii) gold. Prior
to 1988, economic policies in Burkina Faso were characterized by central planning, state ownership of
land, tight controls and restrictions on the private sector, and extensive direct state involvement in
productive activities, including agricultural processing and marketing. High agricultural growth (6 I
percent per year) could be achieved during 1982-1988 due to favorable climatic conditions and
expanded cultivation on new land recently freed of onchocercosis. These growth rates could not be
sustained as Burkina entered into a period of stagnation and recession. Through a number of
parastatals, the Govemment has tried to regulate markets, prices and trade. This has resulted in
important inefficiencies, high transaction costs, and has prevented the development of the private
sector. These constraints were compounded by an increasingly overvalued exchange rate which
imneded competitiveness
2.    In 1988, the economic situation seriously worsened and it became clear that levels of public
speniing could not be sustained anymore. The Govemment started considering alternative economic
policies and entered into a constructive dialogue with the Bank and the IMF. Following completion of
the country economic memorandum in 1988, the Govemment issued a first draft Policy Franework
Papei (PFP) in 1989 which was thoroughly debated in 1990 and presented to the Boards of the Bank
and IMF in early 1991. A first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) was approved by the Bank in
June 1991. The key objectives of the reform program have been to improve the competitiveness of'the
economny, reduce the State's role in the economy, promote private sector activities, pursue a balanced
management of public funds, improve the balance of payment situation, and lay the foundation for a
sustained longer-term growth needed to raise standards of living and alleviate poverty. The preparation
of the AG. SECAL I started in 1989 in parallel with SAC I; it was appraised in late 1991 and approved
in June 1992, followring the adoption by the Govemment of the Letter of Agricultural Development
Policy (LPD-)A). It became effective in August 1993 more than one year after approval because of
delays in the recruitment of the program extemal auditors. Following the CFA franc devaluation in
January 1994, the macroeconomic situation improved significantly as the tradable goods sector
responded well (especially exports of cotton and livestock), inflation was sufficientiy contained to
restore competitiveness, and the real GDP growth rate started to rise again.



2
B.    Program Objectives
1.    Statement of Program Objectives
3.    The AG. SECAL I supports the policies set out in the Govemment's LPDA of May 4, 1992.
The program aims at deepening and extending to the agricultural sector the reforms supported at the
macroeconomic level by the SAC 1, in order to (i) modemize and diversify agricultural production; (ii)
increase food security and; (iii) improve natural resource management. The main objectives were:
(a)  intensification of production and natural resource management, by providing  an
adequate regulatory framework to improve the land tenure systems and provide security
for the small farmers on their land,
(b)  liberalization of trade (external and domestic) and prices of agricultural products,
including traditional cereals, rice, oil seeds, wheat, fruits, vegetable, livestock, cotton
and sugar;
(c)   reorganization of the sector institutional environment, including (i) the redesign of
public institutions involved in rural development and food security, at central and local
levels, (ii) restructuring or privatization of inefficient parastatals, and (iii) clarification
of administrative and financial relations between the State and key agro-industries
(performance contracts with the cotton and sugar companies);
(d)  improvement of public financial management, focused on the preparation of the public
investment program (PIP) and operating budgets, to (i) improve the consistency of
investments and projects with sector strategy and policies, (ii) anticipate macroeconomic
consequences of recurrent costs, and (iii) avoid classical donor driven approach; and
(e)  improvement of food security by (i) reducing the role of the State Cereal Marketing
Board (OFNACER) in controlling and regulating the grain market, and (ii) setting up an
efficient early warning and market information system.
4.    The design of this first AG. SECAL was based on the LPDA. It was the result of a very
participatory preparation process which lasted almost two years under the leadership of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Animal Resources (MARA). Preparation involved all relevant ministries and public
institutions, along with representatives of the civil society. The design of AG. SECAL I was fully in
line with the Country Assistance Strategy and the Policy Framework Paper developed in close
collaboration with the Burkinabe authorities. The matrix annexed to the LPDA included 50 measures
to be implemented within the period of the program. These measures were selected from the proposals
and recommendations of ten working groups (one group for each key sub-sector and four groups on
common issues).
2.    Evaluation of Objectives
5.    Burkina emerged only recently from a state-controlled regime and came relatively late to the
adjustment process. Consequently it was felt necessary to tackle all key issues at the same time,
including the creation of an enabling environment for the private sector and the individual farmers, land



3
tenure security, liberalization of prices and trade, better access to technology and production factors,
and streamlining the role of state (restructuring of public institutions, privatization). In general, the
objectives, measures and conditions of tranche release of the Credit were clearly set out and the 50
measures of the matrix are consistent with the five broad objectives and cover most of the key aspects
of the sector strategy.
6.    However, given the little experience that Burkina had with the adjustment process, the program
may appear today as having been over-ambitious. While important progress could be achieved in key
areas and essential reforms were carried out, the performance of the program as a whole weakens
when comparing achievements to the whole set of objectives. This is especially the case for
implementation of the 50 measures of the matrix some of which needed more time or had to be
postponed. Generally, these measures included complex reforms which required a longer timeframe,
strong and continuous commitment of the civil service (combination of legal, regulatory, administrative
and financial aspects), and also involved the participation of relevant private operators. On the other,
hand the conditionalities for second and third tranche release could have been more focused and less
dependent on assessments to be made of satisfactory implementation of action plans. Furthermore,
some key aspects could have been more developed in the preparation of the LPDA such as: (i) water
and irrigation policies, in relation with natural resource management; (ii) social and poverty issues,
including their impact on living standards and nutrition status; (iii) improvement of human resource
management within the civil service, to reduce tum-over, develop training and improve incentives; (iv)
organizational arrangements of the adjustment process, to ensure better coordination among the
institutions involved; and (v) building up of socio-economic indicators, conceming inter alia the impact
on competitiveness of key sub-sectors and farmers revenues.
C.    Achievement of Program Objectives
7.    As discussed below, the objectives of AG. SECAL I have been partially achieved. Progress
has been substantial in trade and price liberalization, tariff reform, strengthening of cotton and sugar
sub-sectors, livestock, and food security. Substantial delays have been observed for other key reforms
including land laws, reorganization of MARA, privatization, and improvement of public financial
management.
1.    Intensification and management of natural resources
8.    Main actions under the program included the adoption of an improved land use system which
would secure individual farmers' tenure rights and expand community-based land management. This
system would enhance farmers' long-term economic strategies, on-farm investments devoted to
improve soil fertility, plantations and private irrigation. Measures included: (i) evaluation of the impact
of the former land law; (ii) evaluation of experiences of community land management under the
National Program for Village Land Use (PNGT); and (iii) enactment of a revised land law on the basis
of the findings of above evaluations (to be completed not later than 1994).
9.    The evaluation process has been partial and of little input in the preparation of the new land
law. The draft law, which has been substantially delayed, has been presented to the national Parliament
in October 1995 and is currently under discussion in a specialized commission. At its present stage,
the draft version includes several provisions which would allow individual farmers to obtain official
titles and providing sufficient security on their land. However, it appears that it may not be sufficiently



4
flexible and pragmatic to allow for operational mechanisms that would facilitate community-based land
management. Closer attention should be paid to the feasibility of these arrangements and the
operationality of implementing specific regulations and decrees with respect to traditional practices and
customs.
2.    Trade and Price Liberalization
,0    Tradle and Tanff reform. All export taxes were eliminated prior to credit effectiveness. With
the exception of rice and sugar, import monopolies were also eliminated. For rice and sugar, a specific
import tariff study was completed in May 1992. Consequently, the Government abolished the 50
lrer2cnt Transitional Import Tax (TCI) for both commodities. The tariff rate of rice was set at level I
1 I percent). The tariff for sugar was set in the context of SOSUCO's performance contract, on a
(leclinling basis in order to reduce protection from 110 percent in 1992 to 25 percent in 1998. The
current tariff rate for sugar is at level m (37 percent plus 15 percent VAT). However, to a great extent,
the study was rendered obsolete by the CFA franc devaluation and had to be reviewed. As a result, a
riew tariff study was completed in September 1995 which proposes a new protection policy for
a-ricultural commodities and inputs. Its findings, which have been reviewed by the Government and a
iont donor mission in November 1995, should lead to set new adequate tariffs for cereals, sugar and
a.,ncultural inputs, consistent with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and West
African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) agreements. However, the Government protection
policy remains sensitive to internal political pressure and vested interests as demonstrated by the export
ban on hides and skins introduced by the Government in mid-1995 to provide a protected market to a
local transformation industry. This controversial measure is now being discussed in the context of a
tfI0ow up adjustment operation.
1I.   Triaditional cereals. The reforms were all undertaken before credit effectiveness.  nley
included: (i) eliminating all attempts of price administration and market control; (ii) liberalizing trade;
and (iii) permitting the free movement of cereals between provinces. Exports and imports of coarse
m'rains no longer require prior authorization. These measures led to a significant increase in private
sector trading activities and improved the availability of cereals in the zones of chronic deficit in the
northern part of the country.
1_.   R'ice sub-sector  Domestic trade in rice has been liberalized and traders are free to obtain
supply of nrce at the wholesale stage, without approval of the Ministry of Commnerce. However, the
Covernment did not achieve any other significant reform in the liberalization of the sub-sector.
tIthough the milling company (SONACOR) has no longer the obligation to purchase all paddy, it still
retains a "de facto" monopoly for paddy collection and processing, and administers the paddy price
iricludinig a transport equalization system (p&r6quation). The Caisse Generale de Perequation (CGP)
sill retains an import monopoly (the elimination of import monopoly was not included in the AG.
SECAL 1) and sets the wholesale price of rice also including a pgr6quation system. Under the pre-
e-valuation pnrce structure, SONACOR's activities had to be subsidized through the substantial
nmargins that CGP retained from rice imports. The devaluation of the CFA franc on January 12, 1994,
enabled CGP to remove all subsidies for the processing of local paddy and to increase substantially the
p!rice of rice which made subsidies superfluous. The rice sector has remained very much in state hands
.i'h. the consequence of increasing transaction costs and preventing the emergence of private local
i:Uinr iact'vities. However, it is to be noted that with the exception of the privatization of SONACOR,



5
which the Government failed to carry out, no other specific measures for the liberalization of the sub-
sector were included as tranche release conditions in program design. Liberalization of the sectoi may
have benefited from a better description of rice related measures as tranche conditionalities. HoweveC..
it appears that the Government was not ready to address the issue of rice liberalization in the pre-
devaluation period, given the substantial margins generated by CGP. This has now changed and a
partial liberalization of the sector (one third of imports) has been implemented on January 1, 1996
13.   Livestock sub-sector. Export taxes and non-tariff barriers to exports have been eliminated.
along with all trade restrictions. This led to a considerable improvement in the competitiveness of the
sub-sector and its capacity to respond quickly to market signals. After the CFA franc devaluation
exports of livestock (mainly to Ghana and C6te d'lvoire) picked up by 50 percent in 1994. Provision
of veternary services is now increasingly performed by private veterinarians and private distribution of
animal drugs is developing. However, liberalization of drug distribution could lead to the introducuon
of poor quality products and, thus, needs better quality control systems.
14.   Cotton and oil seeds. The Stabilization and Equalization Board (CSPPA) was involved in the
stabilization of prices of cotton and oilseeds (shea butter, sesame and groundnuts). In January 1992,
the cotton stabilization function was transferred from CSPPA to SOFITEX (the mixed capital cotton
company). For shea butter, karit6, and sesame, CSPPA purchased the products from traders or directli'
from the producers at predetermined prices and also retained an export monopoly. The export
monopoly and the stabilization function for oil seeds were abolished prior to credit effectiveness,
producer prices are no longer predetermined, domestic trade is free, and exports no longer require a
permit. However, the Govemment failed to address the issue of the privatization of CSPPA (see pal a
22)_
15.   Sugar. The sugar import monopoly, previously entrusted to CGP was transferred to SOSUCO
(the State majority-owned sugar company in Burkina), to improve the management of sugar stocks and
import requirements. SOSUCO maintains a wholesale pan-territorial price through a transport
equalization system. The sugar trade and marketing system remains inefficient. It fails to ensure a
uniform distribution over the whole country and encourages fraud because of the high tariff on sugar
imports which render official imports unprofitable at the domestic "equalized" price. The program was
however successful in rehabilitating SOSUCO and improving its performance (see para. 28).
16.    Fruits and vegetables.  Domestic trade and exports have been liberalized, obstacles to the
import of packaging cartons removed, and State intervention considerably reduced (see para. 23)
17.   Fertilizers. Trade is liberalized and all fertilizer subsidies have been removed. HIowever, only
the cotton sub-sector through SOFITEX provides for an organized distribution system. 'The inport
tariff on fertilizers has been reduced from level HI to level I in late 1992. However, the Govcrnrent
reestablished a specific subsidy scheme of about 30 percent for fertilizer and pesticides for the
campaign 1995/96 in order to reduce the impact of the CFA franc devaluation on fertilizer farmn-gate
prices. 'These subsidies would be eliminated for the 1996/97 campaign as it appeared that the benefito
of the subsidies were mostly appropriated by traders who embarked on speculative operations.



6
3.    Reorganization of the institutional environment
(a)   Restructuring of public institutions involved in rural development
18.   According to the LPDA, the Govemment committed itself to restructure the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MARA) and its decentralized agencies (CRPA's) with a view to: (i)
improving provision of agricultural services, (ii) divesting CRPAs from commercial activities to the
benefit of the private sector (inputs, marketing of crops, rural infrastructures); and (iii) promoting
better professionalism of farmer's associations so that they could assume greater responsibilities in the
management of support services to individual farmers. The findings and proposals of a specific study
were to be reviewed by the Govemment in mid-1993 and a restructuring action plan was to be
prepared as third tranche conditionality.
19.   Two initial studies, mostly analytical, were completed by the end of 1993 to (i) review the
present situation of MARA and CRPAs; and (ii) assess the farmers' needs in support services.
Divergent opinions among key donors conceming the design of agricultural services and the role of
farmers' organizations contributed to delays in the implementation of these studies and consequently in
the design and programming of the restructuring. Eventually, a three-day national seminar was held in
May 1995 to review the above mentioned studies and to define the principles of the institutional
reforms, including the role of farmer associations. FAO assisted the Govemment to define the
operational setup and detailed programming of the reorganization which would start in 1996. Despite
the delays and controversy raised by the reorganization of MARA, it permitted to enlarge the
participation of all the actors involved and increased the national understanding of the issues at stake
and commitment to the reform. Main features of the restructuring include: (i) privatization of the
commercial activities of the regional agencies (CRPAs) and modification of their legal status; (ii)
within each regional agency, decentralization of the operational support services to the provincial level,
with some administrative and monitoring functions left at the regional level, and (iii) redeployment and
departure of staff.
20.   Moreover, two Permanent Secretariat, one for Livestock and one for Cereals, were created in
1994, to coordinate and manage development activities in these two subsectors (to be financed by
France and the European Union). They were complemented by a number of bodies, Committees, and
two Development Funds. While this institutional framework, in particular the creation and the financing
of the Funds, is still subject to discussions, it appears too heavy, of dubious sustainability without
continuous donor support, and duplicating Ministerial structures. The restructuring of MARA should
consider .;treamlining and mainstreaming these setups.
(b)   Divestiture of the State and Privatization
21    Livestock sub-sector. Operational and financial audits were to be completed during the period
1992-1994 for four public enterprises involved in support services to breeders or meat processing,
namely: (i) Office National Veterinaire (ONAVET) in charge of distribution of veterinary drugs; (ii)
Centre National Avicole (CNA) in charge of production of chicks and support services to individual
chicken breeders, (iii) various slaughter houses and cold stores in several locations of Burkina; and (iv)
the parastatal feed-lot of the Comoe. Audits of ONAVET and CNA have been completed and the
Government decided to privatize these two agencies. However, privatization failed due to difficulties
in finding buyers with the required technical and financial capacity. The Govemment further agreed to



7
start the liquidation of both agencies in December 1995, in line with the last PFP of March 1995. No
action has been taken yet concerning the slaughtering houses and cold stores. The feed-lot was
transferred to the Ministry of Education and Research. Divestiture from these enterprises, although
being part of the Govemment reform program, was not explicitly contemplated under the AG. SECAL.
22.   Privatization in the cereals sub-sector. As a condition of release of the second tranche of the
Credit, the State should have reduced its participation in the share capital of (i) the rice milling
company (SONACOR), and of (ii) the Price Stabilization and Equalization Fund (CSPPA), to a level
below 25 percent of the capital. The condition was not met and a waiver was granted in June 1995 to
permit the release of the tranche. This was justified by the fact that the Government showed
determination in the privatization process (tender had been launched but proved unsuccessful) and, in
the context of the PFP of 1995, the Government committed itself to liquidate both entities by June
1996, if privatization efforts failed. Moreover, "de facto", SONACOR is operating along commercial
lines since the elimination of CGP subsidies, and CSPPA has been in receivership since more than two
years and has stopped most of its activities. Completion of these measures is now underway. The
restructuring of the Cereal Marketing Board (OFNACER) was also envisaged under the program.
Instead, the Government decided, in agreement with the donors, to liquidate OFNACER in 1994 and
created a small agency with a mandate limited to managing the security stock (see paras. 31 and 32).
23.   Fnrit and vegetable sub-sector. In 1990, the Union of Vegetable Cooperatives (UCOBAM)
was controlling 66 percent of fresh vegetable exports to Europe, mainly green beans. This apex
cooperative provides inputs and technical support to the member local cooperatives and purchases their
production. The State was deeply involved in UCOBAM management and played a key role in
inducing the national banking system to finance the whole cooperative system. However, weak
competitiveness and poor management led UCOBAM and local cooperatives to substantial losses and
indebtedness. Under AG. SECAL I: (i) operational and financial audits of UCOBAM and main
member cooperatives have been achieved, and (ii) the State withdrew from the management of
UCOBAM.  However, the settlement of financial losses is subject to the acceptance of the
restructuring plan and staff reductions by the boards of the various cooperatives.
(c)   Cotton sub-sector - Performance contract with SOFITEX
24.   As planned in the AG. SECAL policy matrix, SOFITEX has been operating under a
performance contract (Contrat-Plan) signed with the State since early 1992. The reforms proved
crucial in improving the sub-sector response to the new economic conditions created by the CFA franc
devaluation of January 1994. The nominal farm-gate price for 1994/95 was increased by about 40
percent to 112 CFAF/Kg (to be noted however that the previous level was among the lowest in the
region) and the production of seed cotton moderately recovered to 143,000 tons compared to the record
low of 116,000 tons in 1993/94 (the production target of the Contract-Plan was set at 170,000 tons).
For 1995/96, the farm gate price was again increased by about 30 percent to 140 CFAF/Kg for an
estimated production of 153,000 tons. CSPPA was stripped of its stabilization role while providing
SOFITEX with increased management autonomy; this proved beneficial to the functioning of the sub-
sector. The restructuring efforts combined with the CFA franc devaluation and the increase of the
world market prices since early 1994, permitted to completely recover the financial situation of
SOFITEX and the company has started generating profits since the 1994/95 campaign.



8
25.   However, much progress remains to be achieved to improve the institutional and organizational
set-up of the cotton sector, promote supply response, stimulate growth, settle the financial situation of
the farmers' associations, improve the performance of SOFlTEX and consolidate its financial situation.
In particular, although a new and more effective two-stage payment was introduced, the Contract-Plan
failed to effectively link producer prices to the world market, this would have permitted a better
remuneration of the producers as a result of the windfall benefits deriving from the CFA franc
devaluation and higher world market prices. Performance of the sub-sector was largely below the
objectives and indicators defined in the Contract-Plan, with no visible consequences on SOFITEX
management or changes in policies. Moreover, the autonomous body, including farmers'
representatives, meant to decide on prices and redistribution of benefits, was not established. Overall,
although the Contract-Plan permitted to define an operational framework tor the functioning of the sub-
sector, it largely failed to improve its performance and the efficiency of SOFfTEX. It also induced
rigidities when changes appeared necessary after the CFA franc devaluation. In this respect a
controversial amendment to the Contract-Plan was signed one and a half year after the devaluation
mainly to secure SOFITEX's financial situation at the expense of a better incentive structure for the
producers.
26.   A number of issues remains to be addressed which the Contract-Plan seems to be unable to
tackle. This involves various measures now being contemplated under a second AG. SECAL
including: (i) clarification of the fiscal situation of SOFITEX and settlement of cross debts with the
State; (ii) elimination of fertilizer subsidies in relation with the setting of a better pricing policy with
links to the world market; (iii) better participation of farmers associations in the decision making
process, with particular focus on the pricing and stabilization policy; (iv) improvement of SOFITEX
management and policies especially for transportation, marketing of cotton fiber, procurement
rmiethods, decentralization towards the factories; and (v) support program in favor of the farmers'
associations.
(d)   Sugar sub-sector. Performance contract with SOSUCO
27.   Given the deep financial distress affecting SOSUCO by the beginning of the 1990s, it was
decided under the program to rehabilitate the company. With support from the Caisse Franqaise de
Developpement (CFD), a detailed rehabilitation program of SOSUCO was prepared in Apnrl 1991 and
led to the signature of a Contract-Plan with the State covering the period 1992/93 to 1997/98.
28.  The ongoing rehabilitation process includes: (i) SOSUCO's share capital restructuring; (ii)
medium-term investment program in order to improve productivity; (iii) reductions of staff, and (iv)
improvement of technical and financial management. The Contract-Plan: (i) guarantees SOSUCO's
managerial autonomy; (ii) sets the economic environment of the sugar sub-sector; and (iii) defines the
fiscal and financial relations between SOSUCO and the State. SOSUCO's restructuring program
permitted to a great extent to rehabilitate the company. Its efficiency and financial situation
considerably improved (also as a result of the CFA franc devaluation) so that it can face better
privatization prospects. SOSUCO is now in the list of companies slated for privatization which has
been voted by the Parliament in June 1994. However, the Contract-Plan also .introduced a number of
rigidities in the trade and marketing arrangement which may prove detrimental to the liberalization
efforts of the sub-sector (import monopoly, transport equalization).



9
4.    Improvement of public financial management.
29.   About 40 percent of public investment in Burkina Faso goes to the rural sector, of which more
than 90 percent is financed by external sources, which also finance much of the operating costs through
projects. The objectives of the program have been to (i) improve the selection of public investments
and projects to ensure consistency with sector strategy and policies; (ii) anticipate the impact of
induced recurrent costs on future State operating budgets; (iii) ensure medium-term macroeconomic
consistency; and (iv) reinforce the role of the Government so as to avoid donor driven allocation of
investments and funds. Under SAC 1, the LUNDP and the Bank assisted the Government im
establishing a three-year rolling Public Investment Program (PIP) and improving its monitoring by
strengthening a Project Management Data Bank (BIP) in the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, the Bank
is financing a Public Institutional Development project (PID) launched in 1992 which supports the
Govemment in the implementation of the budgetary and fiscal reform. AG. SECAL I did not introduce
new reforms but supported and helped monitoring the improvement of public finance for the
agricultural sector.
30.   Improvements in this area have been only marginal. Although several unsustainable projects
have been eliminated from the project portfolio, the PIP is still not a planning tool, but rather a listing of
projects by donors. Lack of consistency remain between the PIP, the annual investment budget and the
data base of the various ministries involved in rural development (mainly the Ministry of Finances,
MARA, the Ministry of Water and Environment and the Ministry of Commerce). In general, these
data bases are not updated on time and are not sufficiently comprehensive. Furthermore, no estimation
of recurrent expenditures included in the PIP is currently available, and data concerning the public
payroll are not consistent with the census of the civil service which has been concluded recently. In
addition, expenditures data of line ministries involved in rural development cannot be reconciled with
those of the Ministry of Finance. The reform process will have therefore to be continued and
reinforced and will only progress if there is a clear commitment from the Government to move away
from a donor driven piecemeal approach towards a more coordinated and coherent approach in support
to national priority programs.
5.    Food security
31.   The National Cereals Plan which was designed in 1986-87 defines the key policies for the
cereal sub-sector. It provides for measures to inter alia: (i) develop the local production, processing
and marketing of traditional cereals; (ii) develop and intensify the production of maize for which
Burkina has a comparative advantage; (iii) facilitate the private trade of cereals between surplus and
deficit regions; (iv) improve the management of food aid; and (v) create an institutional framework for
the management of cereal policy and food security. The two main measures included in the adjustment
program were the streamlining of the Cereals Marketing Board (OFNACER) and the establishment of
efficient market information and early waming systems.
32.   OFNACIER. Under the AG SECAL, the Government was to sign a performance contract with
OFNACER, reducing its role to the management of: (i) a reduced food security stock; and (ii) the
market information system. In view of the accelerated liberalization of the cereal market and serious
mismanagement of OFNACER, the Government decided to liquidate it, rather than restructure it. The
liquidation process was initiated in June 1994 and is being completed.  A new agency, the



10
SONAGESS, has been created recently with the sole mandate of managing a reduced food security
stock not to exceed 35,000 tons. SONAGESS status and performance contract are still to be set and
the financing of the operating budget is being sought (likely to be financed by the European Union on a
declining basis). During the transitional period, the security stock is being managed by the local branch
of World Food Program (WFP). Moreover, the National Committee for emergency relief (CONASUR)
has been created in 1993 to coordinate emergency food relief programs, and the Statistic Department
under MARA was strengthened to manage the market information and early warning system, and is
considered to perform correctly.
D.    Major factors affecting the program
33.   Political transition. In the context of the first presidential and legislative elections which took
place in the period 1991-1993, several changes of Government led to some discontinuity and losses of
institutional memory in the preparation and implementation of AG. SECAL I. After 1993, the
intersectoral teams which had participated in the preparation of the AG. SECAL were to a great extent
disseminated among various institutions and many of them were longer involved in the implementation
of the reforms. Furthermore, the situation in Burkina is characterized by: (i) a dominant attitude at the
middle level of the Administration in favor of a State-controlled economy; (ii) opposition of civil
servants' unions to reforms linked to the privatization and retrenchment of workers in the public sector;
and (iii) weakness of the private sector in agriculture, and lack of influential professional or consumer
pressure groups and lobbies to push in favor of these reforms. As a result, following a rather dynamic
preparation process of the AG. SECAL in 1990 and 1991 and the initiation of the reforms until credit
effectiveness, the implementation of most of the measures addressing the divestiture of the State from
economic and commercial activities stalled or have been delayed.
34.   Devaluation of the CFA franc. Prior to the devaluation, Burkina, which is highly dependent on
the economic situation of its francophone neighbors, had been adversely affected by the intemal
adjustment policies implemented in the whole CFA zone. In this context, effective demand for
Burkina's exports weakened over time (livestock and meat especially) because of loss of
competitiveness, and remittances of the 3 million emigrated Burkinabe workers (mostly in the CFA
zone) fell significantly. The devaluation of the CFA franc of January 1994 completely reversed the
situation and had a major positive impact on the sector adjustment program. Competitiveness and
profitability of various sub-sectors have been restored and exports boosted (cotton, livestock, and with
less emphasis, fruits and vegetable), which facilitated the recovery of the financial situation of several
key economic agents, such as SOFITEX. Furthermore, better opportunities for import substitution
(rice, sugar) has facilitated the tariff reform.
35.    World market prices. Credit effectiveness of AG. SECAL I coincided with (i) an upward
change of trend of the international prices of a number of agricultural commodities, especially cotton;
and (ii) the decrease of food stocks and subsidized exports from the European Union and the USA,
which led to higher pnrces of imported meat and cereals. Adequate real exchange rate and attractive
world market prices have been very positive factors for the reforms, by increasing the added value to
be shared between the economic agents of the agricultural sector.
36.   Controversies among key donors. In the field of restructuring of public institutions, the Bank
on one side and the European Union, France and Switzerland on the other, have had divergent views on
the design of the restructuring of Agricultural Services, especially conceming the respective roles and



11
weight of State and farmer associations in the generation and transfer of agricultural technology.
Disagreement on the nature and scope of a study on farmers' needs led to increased delays in the
definition of an action plan for the restructuring of MARA and CRPAs. Finally, the national workshop
of May 1995 allowed the Govemment to set a balanced policy: (i) confirming the leadership of
restructured public services in technology transfer, and (ii) including a comprehensive support
program in favor of farmer associations which would progressively take over responsibilities in the
provision of support services. The detailed studies for the restructuring of MARA and CRPAs, which
were launched after the national workshop, were completed in December 1995.
E.    Program sustainability
37.   Sustainability can only be assessed for those reforms which were fully achieved. Full
completion of the reform agenda however requires further support and needs to maintain: (i) stable
political and social conditions; (ii) competitive exchange rates and stable macroeconomic conditions;
and (iii) strong commitment from the Govemment. Tentative assessment of sustainability of reforms
is presented below, in a medium-term perspective. Overall, although much remains to be done in the
area of public enterprises and public administration reform, the direction of adjustment defined by this
operation has not been challenged and the Government is actually in favor of deepening the reform
agenda under a second operation.
38.   Liberalization of trade and tariff reforms (with the exception of rice, sugar and wheat/flour)
have been substantially achieved and are likely to be sustainable as the Government could already reap
the benefits in terms of better food security for traditional cereals, private sector development for
oilseeds, and increased exports for livestock. The CFA franc devaluation and regional integration will
probably help to maintain an adequate protection policy and reasonable tariff levels.
39.   To date, privatization in agriculture has been mostly unsuccessful for the following reasons: (i)
most of the entities to be privatized were not profitable or with huge liabilities; (ii) real private
entrepreneurs with sufficient know-how and financial capability appear to be very few; (iii) some
privatization were only made possible by providing special privileges and conditions to the private
sector, sometirne providing for a "de facto" monopoly, increasing distortions in the economy to the
detriment of th- consumer. Liquidation might have been in some cases the best option, but has proven
difficult to pursue under persistent political resistance. An alternative scenario could be to ensure that
these companies intervene along purely commercial lines on a leveled field in competition with small-
scale private entrepreneurs. However, in some cases the Burkinabe market is only large enough to
permit oligopolistic ventures at best. The liquidation of OFNACER was a positive development in the
liberalization of the cereal sector. The comparative advantage of traditional cereals such as sorghum
and maize, and the considerable improvements to cereals marketing will likely prove sustainable in the
medium to long term. On the other hand, the new institutional framework in charge of food security is
complex, sometimes redundant and still relies on foreign aid from multiple donors.
40.   Rehabilitation and restoration of competitiveness of the cotton and sugar sub-sector have been
substantially achieved through the performance contracts and will be likely completed during AG.
SECAL II. Cotton enjoys a natural comparative advantage in Burkina and the subsector is well
organized and likely to be sustainable. However, SOFITEX presently suffers from a declining
credibility in farmers' eyes which has translated into a disappointing supply response after the CFA
franc devaluation. Further measures are required to consolidate performance and sustainability (see



12
para. 26). For sugar, sustainabilty of the sub-sector will depend on the appropriate management of
the level of tariff piotection incldding Lhe possibility of shielding the domestic market against excessive
volatility of the intemational market, which is characterized by dumping from developed countries.
Sustainability of exports of fruit and veRetables to Europe by the cooperative system still seems
uncertain in the highly competitive intemational environment. It would require more involvement of
professional private foreign and local investors and a reduction in air transport costs.
41.   More efficient management of public finance and investment planning is a basic condition for
sustainable development of the agnrcultural sector. Continued Government and donors' commitment is
necessary to agree on a medium-term framework for a more coordinated approach to public financing.
F.    Bank performance
42.   Overall, the Bank performance has been satisfactory. Identification took place in June 1989
Mithin the framework of the preparation of SAC 1. Policy dialogue between the Borrower, the Bank
and other key donors continued throughout the preparation of AG. SECAL I. Preparation, which was
comprehensive and participatory, involved most of the institutions and actors concerned by the
implementation of the adjustment program. All aspects of the program were discussed in detail and the
Bank gave full and satisfactory support to the preparation process. The period from identification
thiough appraisal was therefore time consuming (128 staff weeks). In addition, the Bank gave helpful
advice and support in fulfilling the conditions of credit effectiveness.
43    Generally, supervision has been sufficiently initensive (65 staff weeks for two and a half years
period) and contributed efficiently to address important issues such as the tariff reform, reorganization
of the cotton sub-sector and the liquidation of OFNACER. Dialogue and coordination with other key
donors was continuous and positive, as several joint missions took place throughout the implementation
period. However, divergence of views in the field of the reorganization of MARA and the design of
research and extension programs contributed to some delays in the effective implementation of two
conditions for second and third tranche release. In addition, the reorganization of the Africa Region in
the second half of 1994 and the tesulting staff changes led to a period of uncertainty until a joint
supervision mission took place in March 1995 which helped solving the remaining issues for the
release of the second and third tranches of the Credit, which eventually took place in June 1995.
G.    Borrower performance
44.   During preparation of AG. SECAL 1, Borrower's performance was highly satisfactory despite
changes of Government and preparation tearns. The preparation process was comprehensive and
participatory; the results of the various working groups involved were very valuable and consistent
with the overall adjustment strategy. Most proposals from these groups were used as the basis of the
LPDA and for the design of the agnrculture sector adj ustment program.
45.   As far as implementation is concemed, Borrower's performance was deficient. In general,
high ranking authorities in the Govemment, especialiy in the Ministry of Finance, had strong
commitment to the completion of reforms and fulfillment of measures of the policy matrix, including
many that were not supported by a corresponding conditionality. However, various shortcomings and
constraints led to important delays. One issue has been the insufficient information, planning and
coordination between the various ministries involved (AG. SECAL has been generally more perceived



13
as a classical investment project, which falls under the responsibility of the NMinistry of Agriculture and
Livestock, than a reform program of the whole agricultural sector with ramifications in the whole
economy). Main reasons for this situation have been the (i) inactivity of the Interministerial Steering
Committee; and (ii) relative weakness and isolation of the AG. SECAL, Coordination Unit in MARA,
whose staffing and logistics did not receive the adequate support. Moreover, the chlanging political
environment led to quick succession of ministers in several key sectors, including Agriculture and
Livestock, which hindered the dialogue process and complicated the implementation of reforms.
46.   Another issue is related to the privatization process initiated under SAC I and supported by a
Privatization Support Program. Most technical mninlstries and institutions to be privatized did not bring
enough support and commitment to privatization because they were not properly informed and felt
excluded from the process. In the field of restructuring of MARA and CRPAs, the Government took a
rather long time to set clear policy objectives anid principles conceming the role of the farmers
organizations, the content of public services to agriculture and an adequate level of decentralization.
However, this has permitted to increase the commitment of all stakeholders anid is likely to render the
process irreversible.
H.    Assessment of outcome
47.   Based on the Bank's ex-post evaluation norms, AG. SECAL I can be considered as overall
satisfactory. This assessment is based on the fact that the program has achieved substantial progress
for the main objectives such as the liberalization of trade, tariff reform, the studies concerning the
restructuring of MARA and CRPAs, and food security  However, much of these achievements have
been obtained with delays and implementation of other objectives were constrained. Full completion
and sustainability of most reforms is likely but conditioned bv the rnaintenance of continued political
commitment, an adequate macroeconomic environment and medium-term support for the completion
of the adjustment agenda of the sector.
L.    Future operations
48.   The reform agenda in the agricultural sector is clearly not finished in Burkina. Reforms need to
be deepened and consolidated under a second operation currently under preparation, which will focus
on elirrminating remaining barriers in rice, sugar and cotton, and stimulating supply response. It will also
support implementation of the restructuring of MARA and CRPAs and complete the privatization of
state enterprises in the sector, along with the improvement of the management of public finances and in
particular the public investment program. A folbiow up sector adjustment operation should be
complemented by a well targeted investment prograrn to restore growth and enhance the impact of the
adjustment process.  A second agriculturatl services and research project under preparation will
accompany the structural reforms of MARA and improve the delivery of public services. A private
irrrigation project is also under preparation to increase the production and the added value of crops by
promoting and financing private investrrments for irrigation equipmnent, processing, and marketing.
J.    Key lessons learned
49.   Democratization an(d seclGr adjnstmenf. Ongcing dernocratization processes imply a larger
involvement of the civil society and national Parham&mts in the debate leading to important policy
decisions. This entails more complex and tirne consum irg d& - ussions so to broaden the platform of



14
understanding, but will often lead to delays in the preparation of the programs and in the
implementation of the reforms. Greater participation of the people's representation is a very positive
factor to ensure better sustainability of these reforms, provided that the interests of the different actors
involved in the reform are sufficiently and correctly dealt with. Organizational arrangements of future
adjustment programs should therefore include appropriate participatory processes (involving the
Parliament, the civil society and relevant economic operators, including farmers' organizations),
adequate monitonrng arrangements and more flexible planning.
50.   Role offarmer organizations. Some reforms included in the adjustment program may have a
short term negative impact on the condition of (i) the urban economic agents, who will have to pay
more for their food consumption because of relative increase of agricultural prices; and (ii) the civil
servants which fear losses of power and reductions of staff. To balance the likely resistance to reform
by political pressure of urban workers' unions and urban elite, the adjustment programs should
support the development of strong farmers' organizations, at local, regional and national levels and
broaden the basis of ownership of the reform program through appropriate information, education and
communications (IEC) methods. These organizations should progressively become key participants in
the preparation, implementation and monitoring of the reform program and be represented in important
meetings and structures.
51.    Contract Plans (cotton and sugar) between a State-company and the State should have
permitted a better definition of the contractual obligations of the two parties and provided for a
framework of actions in the context of increased autonomy. In practice: (i) they did not prevent State
interference; (ii) they proved difficult to amend and therefore introduced rigidities when changes
appeared necessary; and (iii) performance objectives over a five year period quickly became obsolete
and irrelevant.
52.   Privatization. Under SAC I and AG. SECAL 1, most privatizations in the agricultural sector
have had mediocre results for three main reasons: (i) insufficient restructuring prior to privatization
which led to technically unviable and poorly profitable entities; (ii) weak competition among potential
buyers due to a limited number of entrepreneurs, and (iii) lack of communication and involvement of
the technical ministries and of the entities to be privatized. For future operations (i) the nature and
capacity of the private sector should be better known through specific economic and sociological
studies; (ii) alternatives to immediate privatization could be considered when public enterprises can be
efficiently put in competition with active private and/or informal sector, so as to prevent the creation of
private monopolies; and (iii) preparation and programming of each privatization should be improved by
preliminary studies along with adequate participation and communication.
53    Coordination and monitoring. The reform program involved ten ministries, various parastatals
and many actors of the civil society.   To maintain a dynamic reform process in this complex
environment, and ensure adequate monitoring and policy analysis capabilities, the AG. SECAL
Management Unit should be recognized by all participant ministries, public institutions and
stakeholders.  Such entity should therefore be: (i) located at a sufficiently high level within an
institution with sufficient leadership, and (ii) provided with high-level staffing and adequate logistical
support.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2381 - BUR)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial         Partial          Negligible        Not applicable
(/)     (/)               ~~~(V')             (a/
Macro Policies                                                              Ea
Sector Policies                                          fl 0               0
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development                                                   E0
Physical Objectives                     a                 a                  U3
Poverty Reduction                       U                                   U                   a
Gender Issues                                            E]
Other Social Objectives                 a                 a                                     El
Environmental Objectives                                                                        0
Public Sector Management                U                                        0C
Private Sector Development              U                                   El a
Trade and tariff reform                                   0O



16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (Continued)
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(v')                     (V)                       (/)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                          satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Deficient
(O)            (V)             (1)
Identification                                J             IA              U
Preparation Assistance                                                      Q
Appraisal                                                   El              El
Supervision                                  E              I?              E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Deficient
(V)      (1)             (i)
Preparation                                                 E               El
Implementation                               E              E               E3
Covenant Compliance                          E              IA              E
Operation (if applicable)                   E               E               E
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactor
El)              ()             El)               El



17
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
LoanlCredit title                                 Purpose                             Year of    Status
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  approval
Preceding and on RoinM
operations                                          .
1 Fertilizer Credit     The project seeks to improve fertilizer policies and the structure  1985  Project
of fertilizer use by removing subsidies and other distortions,         completed.
identifying and providing better and cheaper fertilizers and           Credit closed.
eliminating supply inadequacies                                 .
2. Agricultural          This long term Program seeks to strengthen the capacity of   1988      Credit to be
Research                 national agricultural research, improve the linkages betveen           closed in 1996.
individual research programs, and strengthen research-                 Follow-up
extension links.                                                       under
preparation
3. Agricultural Services  This long term Program seeks to improve the effectiveness and   1989  Project to be
impact of agricultural and livestock extension services in             completed in
transferring technology to farmers, to strengthen animal health        1996. Follow-
services and adaptive research programs, and to provide                up under
functional literacy to farmers                                         preparation
4. Environmental         The Project seeks, by involving the local communities, to stop    1991  Project to be
Management               and reverse the process of natural resources degradation in            completed in
order to secure sustainable agricultural growth, to restore            1998.
_ _________________  biodiversity, and to protect the wildlife and forests.
5. Food Security         The Project seeks to strengthen existing food security       1992      Project to be
institutions and support the creation of a national focal point        completed in
for the analysis of the cereal policy, to improve the market           1999.
information and early warning systems for cereals, and to
increase the purchasing power and the nutritional status of the
rural poor.
6. Community-based       The Project seeks to improve the conservation of wildlife and  1995    GEF financing.
Wildlife Conservation    biodiversitv, along with the quality of rural life, by involving       Project on-
and Management          the local communities in the design, development and                    going.
management of related activities as safari hunting and eco-
tourism.
Under preparation
1. Second Ag. Sector    Consolidate and deepen the reforms initiated under the first            Appraisal in
Adjustment               credit                                                                 1996
2. Agricultural Services  Support the restructuring of MARA and improve the delivery            Appraisal in
__ ___ _  ______  of agricultural services and research                                   1996
3- Private Irrigation and  The Project will seek to increase the production and the added       Appraisal in
Agroprocessing           value of crops by promoting and financing private investments          1996
for irrigation equipment, processing, marketing, and
strengthening of producer groups.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned (1)      Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Initiating memorandum                                        October  1991
Appraisal                                                    November 1991
Negotiations                               March 1992          April 1992
Letter of Development Policy                May 1992           May  1992
Board Presentation                          July 1992          June 9, 1992
Signing                                   October 1992       October 6, 1992
Effectiveness                             December 1992      August 31, 1993
First Tranche Release                    December 1992       August 31, 1993
Second Tranche Release                   December 1993        June 30, 1995
Third Tranche Release                    December 1994        June 30, 1995
Project Completion                       December 1994       November 1995
Loan Closing                             December 1994   December 31, 1995
(1) As provided in the Report and Recommendation of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors, dated May
12, 1992.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
l _____________________  FY93            FY94        FY95         FY96
Appraisal Estimate         10,000       10,000       8,000
Cumulative                  10,000       20,000       28,000
Actual                                   9,609         673        19,299
Cumulative                                9,609       10,282       29,581
Actual as % of Estimate -    0              48%        37%          106%
Cumulative
Date of Final Disbursement                   December 13, 1995
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No Implementation Indicators were included in the President 's Report.



19
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study          at AppraisalURedefined              Status         Impact of Study
1. Community         Evaluation of the experience    Issued in January    Conclusions and
management of         and lesson of experience in   1995                recommendations have only
natural resources     Burkina Faso (PNGT)                               partially been taken into
account in the new version of
the land tenure legislation
under discussion in the
Parliament
2. Tariffs reform and   In the context of internal  Issued in May       Partly implemented but was
trade liberalization  adjustment (before the CFA    1992                rendered obsolete after the CFA
(rice and sugar sub    franc devaluation), propose                      franc devaluation and had to
sectors)             relevant level of protection for                   be updated
rice and sugar along with
liberalization of domestic
trade
3. Tariffs reform and   Updating of the above       Issued in May       Several scenarios have been
trade liberalization  mentioned study to take into    1995              analyzed. On the basis of this
(rice, sugar. and     account the effects of the CFA                    study, and following the joint
agricultural inputs)    franc devaluation                               donor mission of November
1995, the Government will (i)
enforce adequate tariffs as of
early 1996, and (ii) continue
with the trade liberalization
4. Privatization of   Operational audit, assessment                     A local competitive bidding
SONACOR (Rice        of assets and profitability.                       was launched since early 1995.
mill)                Proposals for the privatization                    Submissions are being
process                                           evaluated.
5. Privatization of   Operational audit, assessment   Study completed in  Privatization not feasible.
CSPPA (export of      of assets and profitability.  1993                Liquidation should be
cash crops other than   Proposals for the privatization                 considered.
cotton and            process
stabilization board)
6. Reorganization of   Coordinate and rationalize the   Draft first set of  Main feature include
the public services   activities of ministries and  analytical studies    streamlining of mandate,
agencies whose activities have  issued in 1993.   decentralization of operational
a significant impact on       Indicative action   activities at provincial level,
agriculture                   plan in April 1995.  transfer of commercial
Detailed action     activities to the private sector,
plan to be issued in  and redeployment of personnel
June 1996



20
Table 7: Project Financing
(Foreign costs in equivalent US$ million)
Source               ___          Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA                                        28                            30
ELlropean Uiniori                          20                            30
French Aid                                 21                            17
Affican Development Bank                   13               _
TOTAL                                      82                            77
Iable 8:  Status of Legal Covenants
Credit        Present  Description of Covenant                             F Comments
Agrernent     Status
Sectionl
Scin____ _.____ _ ____                           ______l_
3.01 (a)        C      The Borrower and IDA shall. from timiie to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the programn
3.01 (b)        C      Prlor to such exchanges, the Borrower shall furnish to
11)A for its review a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out itie progiam in such detail as IDA shall
reasonably requcst
3.02            C.)    Except as IDA shali otherwise agree. procuremenlt of the
goods shall be governed bv the provision of the schedule
_ ____ _ _  _ _ 2 of this. agreeent_       ___                            _       _
3 03 (a)        C      The Borrower shall inaintain or cause to maintain, in
accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practicis. the expenditures financed out of the
..._.-_proceeds of the Credit                                  _.
i.03 (b)       CD      The Borrower shall have such records and accounts,
including those for the Special Account, for each Year
audited by imdependent auditors, The Borrower shall
furniish to IDA. not later than 6 months after the end of
each F"'Y. a certified copy of such audit by said auditors,
as iDA shall have requested.           _____
3.03 (c)       CD      For all expendituires made on the basis of SOEs, the
Borrower shall (i) maintain records and accounts of such
expenditures; (ii) retain all records evidencing such
expenditures at least one year after IDA has received the
audit for FY in which the last Va ithdrawal was made; (iii)
enable IDA to examine such records: and (iv) ensure thai
said accoun.s and rccords be inudited on a semiannual
basis by said auditors, who shall prepare audit reports
accordingly andfiurnish tl-nm to IDA, not later thani 3
inonths ahecr tlle cnid. of suEch semianirlual audit period,
______________________  along witth an opinion of reliability of SOEs  _



21
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
Credit        Present   Conditions of Release of Second Tranche            Comments
Agreement      Status
Section
S4 A. I          C      The Borrower has reviewed the findings of the rice
and sugar import tariffs and, in the light thereof.
introduced modifications, acceptable to the
Association, to existing tariffs applicable to both
commodities   ___________h
S4 A. 2         NC      The Borrower has reduced its participation, whether    A waiver was granted
direct or indirect, in the share capital of SONACOR    and the CGovernment
and CSPPA to a level which, in either each case, shall  agre,d in the context of
not exceed 25 % of the capital, subject. however, in    the PFP to privatize or
the case of CSPPA, to the results of the stud> relating   liquidate the two
_________              thereto                                        _   companies by June 1996.
S4 A.3           C      The Borrower and OFNACER have concluded, and       With agreement of IDA,
started to implernent, a contract plan which shall be    the Governimenit
acceptable to the Association, including, in particular,  liquidated OFNACER
an adequate mechanism for monitoring and          Dissemination of market
disseminating mnarket information                 information is currertlv
being, adequately
handled by the Ministiy
of Agriculturc and
_______.___                                                    Livestock
S4 A.4           C      The Borrower and SOFITEX have concluded, and
started to implement. a contract plan, which shall be
acceptable to the Association, including, in particular,
an improved scheme for cotton stabilization
S4 A.5           C      The Borrower has submitted to the Association the  A first draft of such
findings of a study relating to a proposed redefinition   study concerning the
of the respective roles of the various ministries, arid  Ministry of Agriculture
the provincial and other agencics, that intervene in  and Livestock was
the agricultural sector, and to the proposed      circulated in December
restructuring thereof    -                    _   1993.-__          .  _
S4 B. I          C      The Borrower has satisfied the Association that it has
not granted any subsidy. whether direct or indirect, to
SONACOR during the preceding twelve months'
period
S4 B.2 (i)       C      The Borrower has achieved satisfactorv progress in  SONAGESS has been
the implementation of the contriact pian with     created to manage the
OFNACER                                           food security stock.
Hlowever, this institution
does not fully function
yet.
. _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                              _    ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ y t



22
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (end)
Credit        Present   Conditions of Release of Third Tranche           Comments
Agreement      Status
Section
S4 B.2 (ii)     CP      The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in   The initial Contract Plan
the implementation of the contract plan with    was implemented
SOFITEX                                         satisfactorily. However, the
amendment to the Contract
Plan, prepared after the
CFA franc devaluation,
was only signed in
September 1995 and has
been subject to controversy
and criticismn
S4 B. 3         CD      The Borrower has submitted an action plan.       An indicative action plan
together with an implementation schedule,       and implementation
acceptable to the Association, with a view to   schedule was sent to the
implementing the findings of the study referred to    Bank after a national
in S4 A.5                                       workshop in May 1995. A
detailed action plan was
completed with assistance
l ___________  _________  _____________________________________________   of  FA O   in    D ecem ber   1995
Present Status:
C =Complied with
CD= Complied with after delay
CP= Complied with partially
NC= Not complied with
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of           Actual Staff
Project Cycle          Weeks
Through Appraisal              128
Appraisal-Board                 15
Supervision                     65
Completion                       5
TOTAL                         208



23
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Ntumber                       Specialized       Implemen-         Develop-
Stage Of          Month/         Pr            Days in         Staff Sldlls        tation            ment          Types of
Project Cycle         Year          ersons         Field         Represented          Status         Objectives      Problems
(I DA)                                                                        _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _
Preparation mission     May 1990           1        12             Agricultural             _                _                                   l
Economist
Preappraisal            May 1991           1        14             Economist                _
Appraisal (joint donor  November           I        20             Economist                _                _
mission)                 1991
Post Appraisal I        September          I        10             Economist                                 _          Crisis of the cotton
1992                                                                                           subsector
Post Appraisal 11       November           1        12             Economist                _                           Deficits of SOFITEX and
1992                                                                                           OFNACER. Design of
reorganization of MARA
Pre Effectiveness       June 1993          1        10             Economist                                            Liquidation of
OFNACER; restructuring
of the cotton subsector;
reorganization of MARA
Pre-Effectiveness (Join,   August          I        10             Economist                 1                I         Import tax on agricultural
donor mission)           1993                                                                                           inputs; continuation of
CGP monopoly and high
rice protection tariffs
Supervision I (Joint    November                   I10             Economist                 I                1         Coordination between
donor mission)           1993                                                                                           various reform programs;
divergence of views
among donors concerning
the reorganization of
MARA and the cotton
subsector
Supervision 11          November           1        5              Economist                                            Follow up of AG. SECAL
1994                                                                                           1 and identification of
AG. SECAL II
Supervision III         March              3        14             Agricultural              s                s         Delays in privatization of
1995                                      Economists                                           SONACOR and CSPPA;
(joint donor mission)                                                                                                   divergence of view
concemning the
reorganization of MARA,
content of the amendment
of the Contract Plan
between the State and
SOFITEX
Supervision IV          July 1995          I        5              Agricultural                                         Cotton subsector;
Economist                                           reorganization of MARA
Supervision V (joint    November           4        14             Agricultural              s                s         Trade and tariffs reform;
donor mission)           1995                                      Economists                                           cotton subsector;
reorganization of MARA;
Cotton specialist                                   Public Investment Budget
Completion              December           1        14             Consultant, Ag.           s                s
1995                                      economist



24
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRIC'ULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2381 - BUR)
ANNEX
Comments of the Borrower



Conclusion'
The first phase of the PASA project has yielded both positive, and less positive, results.
Positive results include cooperation between the main donors, which enabled some
amount of synergy in their approach and involvement
Also to be mentioned is the clarity of the pursued objectives, both in terms of quality and
quantity with respect to the central theme: the reduction of the role of the State and the
involvement of other actors (private sector, NGOs, etc..) who are more able to make
maximum use of resources and therefore obtain maximum income, both at the level of the
household and the nationai economy.
The following negative aspects have been noted.
(a) the difficulty in measuring the exact impact of the PASA, and more so as a result of
the CFA franc devaluation which concealed earlier assessmenits and made it more
difficult to determine its impact;
(b) the poor performance of the privatization programs which suffered greatly from a lack
of coordination among the enterprises, the governing ministries, and the National
Commission for Privatization;
(c) the slowness and inefficiency with regard to the execution of the various liberalization
measures, deriving  from  the  compartmentalization  between  the Ministry  of
Agriculture, the Ministry of the Economy and the Ministry of Commerce,
(d) some inconsistency between donor positions. Thus, although the LPDA's matrix
advocates in favor of the creation of the Livestock Development Fund (FODEL) (step
34), this principle was later denounced. In the same way, although the PFP of March
1995 called for liberalization for one-third of rice imports, the joint mission's aide-
memoire of November I 995 suggested the total liberalization of rice imports.
This page is the translation of Borrower's conclusion of his Implementation Completion Report



MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE                                        BURKINA FASO
ET DES RESSOURCES ANIMALES                                   La Patrie ou la Mort. Nous Vaincrons !
ouagadougou. le  A  V? 1996
N %6          / AGRI-RA/ PASA
bjet .~~~~~~~~~~~~e dei
Objet Rapport dachevement
du PASA-I                                           /e-cgsetceJ    zl#tn male.
-6t    5BUIRKINA WISSI10N                         @
Madame Cynthia C. COOK
Chef de la Division Agriculture et Environnement
Departement de l'Afrique du Centre-Ouest
Banque Mondiale
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington DC 20433 USA
Madame,
J'ai l'honneur d'accuser reception du rapport d'achevement du PASA I que vous
avez bien voulu me transmettre le 13 mars 1996.
Je tiens tout d'abord a vous faire part de mon assentiment quant aux grandes
lignes du rapport, tant en ce qui concerne la realisation des objectifs fixes au PASA I
qu'en ce qui a trait aux enseignements tir6s et qui devront etre pris en compte dans la
mise en oeuvre du PASA II.
Vous me permettrez de vous faire part des observations suivantes relatives a
quelques points specifiques du rapport d'achevement.
1.    Aspects cl6s (paragraphe 6)
Le rapport mentionne que certains aspects cl6s (ressources naturelles, pauvret6
et nutrition, ressources humaines, coordination, indicateurs socio-economiques)
auraient pu etre mieux developp6s. Si I'on veut evaluer correctement la mise en oeuvre
de ces aspects, il est necessaire de prendre en compte non seulement le PASA I mais
egalement 1'ensemble des actions, projets et programmes mis en oeuvre dans le cadre
du PAS par les autres departements (environnement, sante, action sociale,
economie...). On s'apercevrait alors que ces aspects ont ben6ficie de resultats plus
substantiels que ceux observables au sein du seul PASA I.
Cell"1e *le Coordinarioun, iiu P AS 4 03 BP 7 10 Ou:agadouqua 03  Tel. (--6J 30J-6s-9S er 31-84-61  Fax- (226) 31-08-70



2
2.    Liberalisation de la distribution des m6dicaments vet6rinaires
(paragraphe 13)
Le rapport evoque de fa,on juste les problemes de qualite que rencontre la
distribution des medicaments par le secteur priv6. II conviendrait egalement de
mentionner les problemes de disponibilit6 des medicaments qui ne sont pas
accessibles dans l'ensemble des zones agro-pastorales du pays, ainsi que le niveau
tres elev6 des prix pratiques par certains commer,ants et dont les eleveurs se plaignent
r6gulierement. La privatisation de la distribution des medicaments veterinaires n'a donc
pas ete partout synonyme de meilleur acces aux produits et de diminution des prix.
Ceci conforte le fait qu'une privatisation r6ussie implique que, parallelement a la
privatisation proprement dite, I'Etat assume les responsabilites qui lui reviennent:
definition de regles transparentes et permanentes assurant une concurrence loyale
entre les acteurs priv6s; controle de la qualite (qui peut d'ailleurs etre sous-traite a un
organisme priv6); offre de biens et services dans les zones marginales ou enclavees
ou les prives ne sont pas presents. La privatisation ne doit donc pas signifier un retrait
de l'Etat mais un dosage equilibre et complementaire des actions du prive et de l'Etat.
3.    Liberalisation de la filiere des ol6agineux (paragraphe 14)
L'ajustement sectoriel agricole a effectivement permis une liberalisation des prix
aux producteurs, des echanges interieurs et des exportations. II faut cependant
mentionner que le contr6le de qualite, precedemment pris en charge par la CSPPA,
n'est plus assure et que la r6putation de la qualit6 des graines ol6agineuses burkinabe
(surtout le karite) exportees s'en ressent beaucoup. De plus, les producteurs situees
dans les zones enclavees et delaissees par le priv6 sont dans l'incapacit6 de vendre
leur production.
Ici encore, la privatisation doit aller de pair avec la mise en place par l'Etat d'un
environnement favorable a l'activite des priv6s, une des composantes essentielles de
cet environnement 6tant la mise en place d'un systeme de contr6le de qualite et de
relais du prive dans les zones ou celui-ci ne p6netre pas.
4.    S6curit6 alimentaire (paragraphe 31)
Le stock national de securite gere par la SONAGESS n'est pas de 20.000
tonnes. II est constitue d'un stock physique de 35.000 tonnes et d'un stock financier
permettant l'achat de 25.000 tonnes.
De plus, le Systeme d'lnformation sur les Marches (SIM) ne releve pas du
CONASUR mais de la SONAGESS. Le SIM est une des composantes du Comite de
Coordination de l'Information sur la Securite Alimentaire (CCI) loge a la Direction des
Statistiques Agro-Pastorales du Ministere de I'Agriculture.
...1...
Cellule de Coordination dlu P-iSA   03 BP 7010 Ouagadiougou 03  Tel. (226) 30-68-95 et 3 1-84-6)   Fax (226) 3 1-08-70



3
5.    Reorganisation des services agricoles (paragraphe 35)
Si les deux aspects mentionnes par le rapport (r6le des services publics dans
le transfert des technologies et appui aux associations de producteurs) ont
effectivement 6t6 debattus lors de l'atelier  national de concertation sur la
r6organisation des services agricoles tenu a Koudougou du 2 au 4 mai 1995, il convient
cependant de rappeler le message central de l'atelier, a savoir que l'amelioration des
services agricoles passe par un recentrage de l'Etat autour de ses veritables missions
(6laboration des politiques et strategies, reglementation, suivi-evaluation, contr6le de
qualite, recherche) et par un transfert progressif de certaines competences qu'il
assumait jusque IA aux organisations paysannes (production, commercialisation, ...).
Quant a la r6organisation proprement dite des services agricoles, elle comprend
quatre grands axes: red6finition des roles des differents acteurs du developpement
rural sur la base d'un desengagement des services publics de certaines taches;
amelioration qualitative de l'execution des missions centrales du ministere; application
de l'approche participative a tous les niveaux; deconcentration/decentralisation vers le
niveau provincial.
6.    Protection de Ia filiere sucre (paragraphe 39)
Le rapport mentionne tres justement que la politique commerciale et tarifaire a
entre autres pour but de proteger la fili&re sucriere nationale "contre la volatilitK des
march6s internationaux caracterises par le dumping des pays industrialises".
La restructuration des grandes filieres agro-industrielles (sucre, riz, ble/farine,
coton) doit donc viser un equilibre entre deux objectifs: d'une part, exposer ces filieres
nationales a un degr6 minimum de concurrence internationale de fa,on a les forcer a
une am6lioration permanente de productivite; d'autre part, proteger ces filiires contre
une concurrence sauvage et deloyale de la part de produits vendus sur le marche
mondial a des cours entierement deconnectes des veritables couts de production. C'est
ce double principe qui guide les autorites nationales dans I'elaboration de la politique
tarifaire dans le cadre du PASA II.
7.    Coordination PASA (paragraphe 44)
S'il est vrai que le Comit6 Interministeriel PASA ne s'est pas frequemment reuni,
il faut noter que les missions conjointes d'evaluation du PASA I, effectuees a la
cadence moyenne de deux par an, ont 6te l'occasion pour le Gouvernement de reunir
l1ensemble des parties concernees et de permettre ainsi des echanges et concertations
aussi fonctionnels et fructueux que ceux qui auraient eu lieu dans le cadre du CIM
PASA.
Cellule de Coordination du PASA   03 BP 7010 Ouagadougou 03  Tel. (226) 30-68-95 et 31-84-61   Fax (226) 31-08-70



4
8.    Privatisation (paragraphe 52)
Outre les observations pertinentes du rapport, il convient de rappeler qu'une des
conditions indispensables a la reussite des privatisations est qu'un environnement
favorable aux initiatives des entreprises privees soit mis en place par l'Etat. La
privatisation ne doit donc pas signifier le retrait de I'Etat mais un juste dosage entre les
interventions de I'Etat, charge de mettre en oeuvre les regles d'une concurrence loyale
et transparente, et celles du prive charge de faire correspondre offre et demande des
biens et services.
9.    Coordination et suivi (paragraphe 53)
La coordination et le suivi reussis du PASA impliquent en effet que la Cellule de
Coordination du PASA soit reconnue, dans son r6le et ses attributions, par 1'ensemble
des acteurs du PASA (ministeres, institutions, intervenants publics, parapublics et
priv6s, ONG, ...) et qu'elle soit pour cela situ6e a Lin niveau hierarchique suffisamment
61ev6 et dot6e en ressources humaines et materielles cons6quentes.
Je saisis la presente occasion pour vous faire parvenir notre rapport
d'achevement du PASA 1.
Veuillez agreer, Madame, I'expression de ma consid6ration distinguee.
.J. :
Rapport national d'achevement PASA 1.
Le Ministre de l'Agriculture
et des Ressources Animales
f
-~zMr1~iI   OUTABA
Cellule de Coordination du PASA   03 BP 7010 Ouagadougou 03   T.l. (226) 30-68-95 et 31-8461   Fax v'226) 31-08-70
A;__     -J_-Sr 4    har~tar A









IMAGING
Report No:      15571
Type: ICR



