Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23357
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-41700; PPFB-P3070)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 34.2 MILLION
TO
TURKMENISTAN
FOR
AN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
December 20, 2001
Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Manatlar
5,200 Manats = USS 1 (official rate)
USSI = 21,000 Manats (street rate)
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APAPO        Ashgabat Passenger Autotransport Production Organization
MoAT         Ministry of AutoTransport
31P          Operations Improvement Plan
OSG           Operations Support Group
PMG          Project Managenent Group
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director.    Dennis de Tray, ECCO8
Sector Director    Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Transport Sector Manager    Eva Molnar
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Slobodan Mitric, ECSIE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKMENISTAN
URBAN TRANSPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 18
9. Partner Comments                                                                20
10. Additional Information                                                         20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P034083                                       Project Name: URBAN TRANSPORT
Team Leader: Slobodan Mitric                              TL Unit: ECSIE
1CR Type: Core [CR                                        Report Date: December 20, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: URBAN TRANSPORT                                L/C/TFNumber: SCL 41700;
PPFB-P3070
Country/Department: TURKMENISTAN                                         Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: TU - Urban Transport; UU - Urban Development
Adjustment; WW - Water Supply & Sanitation
Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/27/1995                              Effective: 08/29/1997          08/19/1997
Appraival:  10/23/1996                                MTR:
Approval:  05/27/1997                              Closing:  12/31/2001          06/28/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: TURKMENISTAN/MOAT/APAPO
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Dennis DeTray                              Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:      Eva Molnar                                 Jonathan C. Brown
Team Leader at ICR:   Slobodan Mitric                           Yusupha Crookes
ICR Primary Author:   Slobodan Mitric
2. Principal Performance Raidngs
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Qualty at Entry: S                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Project was the first investment operation approved by the Bank in Turkmenistan, the only prior
operation being an Institution Building Technical Assistance Loan approved in FY 1995. It was also one of
only two investment operations, the other being a Water Supply and Sanitation Project, prepared in the
context of the first Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Turkmenistn (finalized in May 1997). Both of
these investment projects were based on specific requests by the Government, which was anxious to
improve faltering services deemed essential for the daily life of urban and rural populations in the country.
Both projects also were meant to serve as vehicles for preparing and implementing in their specific domains
some of the most crucial govemance and public sector reforms contained in the CAS.
From a sectoral and regional perspective, the Project belongs to a cluster of six urban transport operations
undertaken by the Bank in the former socialist countries in Europe and Central Asia Region in the
early-to-mid 1990s. The others included projects in Kazakhstan and Hungary (completed), Russia and
Latvia (approaching completion), and Ukraine (abandoned after an impasse encountered at the negotiations
stage). In all cases, these projects responded to urgent requests for help from national governments and city
mayors who were facing a crisis in the supply of urban public transport services, in terms of both quantity
and quality. Given that public transport carried a large majority of daily trips, up to 90-95% in some cities,
this crisis in turn endangered the daily life of citizens and the functioning of urban economies. Underlying
the urban transport problems was the continuation of a public policy of low fares and fare exemptions, in
tandem with the inability of the local and/or state governments to make up the difference between fare
revenues and operating costs of public sector owned transport enterprises, as they had done in the socialist
era.
In major Turkmen cities, the prolonged under-financing of public transport operators had resulted in aged
fleets, with 40-70%/o of vehicles more than 7 years old, and only 55-65% fit to be placed in service. In some
other countries which also were changing from central planning to a market based system, e.g. Poland and
Hungary, the responsibility for regulating urban public transport (and other local services) was turned over
to local govemments, which then made their own decisions about allocating budgets among competing
uses. By and large this led to increased user fees in most service sectors, certainly in public transport
services. It also led to city governments focusing on their revenue base and resource allocation. In
Turkmenistan, neither of these had been done. The inherited institutional arrangement was highly
centralized. The national government, acting mainly through the Ministry of Automotive Transport
(MoAT), had both regulatory and functional responsibilities for all urban public transport operations,
including taxis. The same applied to inter-urban passenger services and for all freight services. Profits from
freight services were used to support money-losing services, using the mechanism of an extra-budget
Transport Fund. Very little scope was left for the involvement of municipal governments, mainly such
things as asking for changes in service routes and schedules. Altogether, local governments had remained
outposts of the national government, and had neither institutional or financial capacity to take over
municipal services. Similarly, transport enterprise managers had a very narrow scope of authority,
concerning themselves mainly with technical matters of operations and maintenance. Finally, the traveling
public had no way of influencing the planning and management of transport services.
The overall objective of the Project was to "improve, on a sustainable basis, the efficiency and cost
effectiveness of urban transport in the cities of Ashgabat, Mary, and Chardjou." (This last city was later
renamed Turkmenabat, the name used in this report hereafter). The specific sub-objectives cited in the
Staff Appraisal Report were seven:
-2-



(i) reforming the management of the agencies in charge of urban transport operations in the three
participating cities; the term "management" apparently referred to the entire regulatory and
organizational structure of the sector;
(ii) establishing a passenger transport authority, Ashgabat Passenger Autotransport Production
Organization (APAPO), responsible for the overalI management of bus operations;
(iii) improving cost recovery of the operating enterprises;
(iv) implementing an Operations Improvement Plan (for the participating operators);
(v) augmenting and pteserving the supply of bus services;
(vi) enhancing private sector participation in the provision of urban transport services; and
(vii) establishing a continuing process of public consultation for this service sector.
While the project investments in vehicles. spare parts and vehicle rehabilitation (see the section on project
components below) were meant to reach directly the objective of preserving and augmenting the public
transport services, the design of the Project as regards the institutions and policies was as follows:
*   APAPO was set up as an independent legal entity, "with control vested with the Municipality of
Ashgabat," (cf. Staff Appraisal Report, para. 7.19(a)), but legal obligations regarding its continued
existence were assigned to the Borrower (i.e. the Government, acting through MoAT). Though
nominally responsible for passenger transport in Ashgabat, APAPO was also in charge of
project-related investments and refonns in the other two participating cities, until the local
institutions therein developed a requisite capacity. It consisted of two groups: (I) the Project
Management Group (PMG), to implement project investments, maintain accounts, and interact
with the Bank; and (2) the Operations Support Group (OSG) to assist in and oversee the reform
activities of the participating companies;
* the main institutional innovation (referring to the item (i) above) consisted of an interlinked system
of three (quasi) contractual agreements, renewable annually. These were as follows: (1) an
Administrative Agreement between the national government (represented by MoAT), APAPO
and each municipal government, specifying undertakings of each city with respect to the Project,
including procurement, accounts, audits, and relations with APAPO; (2) a Service Contract
between each municipal government and APAPO, spelling out service requirements and standards,
and estimating the cost of service provision; (2) a Performance Contract between each operating
company and APAPO, listing services and performance standards to be carried out by the
company, methodology for fare setting, criteria for measuring the company's operational and
financial performance, obligations with regard to the maintenance of facilities and equipment used
by the company, the undertakings with regard to the Operations Improvement Plan (see below),
and the reporting requirements; and;
*   each participating company would prepare and implement an Operations Improvement Plan,
including routing and scheduling; stops and terminals; fare concessions, exemptions and collection;
vehicle management; vehicle repair and rehabilitation; and spare parts management;
*   passenger fares were to be increased and other measures (fare collection, cost reduction) were to be
used to ensure that business revenue covered at least direct operating costs of each operating
company by the end December 1999;
*   the Government (MoAT) would develop a system of compensating transport companies for fare
exemptions or discounts, whereby the compensation would be paid directly by the municipalities or
- 3 -



by the ministry/agency asking for exemptions or discounts;
*   the Govemment (MoAT) would make "adequate yearly budget allocations from the central state
budget for the required subsidy to APAPO," implying the abandonment of the subsidy through the
Transport Fund, and make "quarterly payments of said subsidy to APAPO" (though not specifying
rles for the payments from APAPO to companies);
*   procedures would be introduced (by January 1999) to ensure that subsidies were adequate for the
planned maintenance and repair of vehicles, and capital investments for replacement and expansion
(cf. Action Plan);
* a privatization program for taxis and minibuses, through leasing or sales to private individuals,
would be implemented by November 1997;
*  a system of competitive tendering for public transport services would be studied by January 1998
and tested in Ashgabat on pilot basis by April 1998; and
*   the Govenrnent would seek ways for the private sector to receive financing for investments in
transport assets.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged during the life of the project. The Loan was suspended for
more than a year, from March 1998 through May 1999. The project implementation activities were all but
frozen during that period. The re-activation mission visited Ashgabat in May/June 1999, concluding that a
major restructuring of the reform part of the Project was warranted. It was envisaged that the overall
project objective would remain, but the number and scope of the specific sub-objectives would be reduced.
Ultimately, as explained in Section 4.1 below, the Project was cancelled without the restructuring being
done.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included three components: purchase of new vehicles for public transport companies in
three cities; vehicle maintenance and rehabilitation; and technical assistance and training to the government
institutions and participating companies. The total base cost was estimated at US$32.90 million; when
physical and price contingencies are included, the total project cost was US$38.29 million. The individual
components were as follows:
A. New Vehides Component
A. 1. City of Ashgabat (US$14.19 million): 52 standard size, diesel buses for Ashgabat Bus Company, at
an estimated cost of US$120,000 per unit; 10 standard-size buses with dual CNG/diesel propulsion for the
same company, at an estimated cost of US$135,000 per unit; and 40 standard-size trolley buses for
Ashgabat Trolley-bus Company, at an estimated cost of US$ 160,000 per unit.
A.2. Cities of Mary and Turkmenabat (US$3.36 million): about 28 standard-size diesel buses for Mary
and Turkmenabat bus companies. The exact number of buses to be bought for these two cities was to be
determined by further investment studies, whose completion was a condition of disbursement.
B. Maintenance and Rehabilitation Component
B.1. City of Ashgabat (US$12.41 million): (a) rehabilitation of 81 buses, 34 trolley buses and 33
minibuses, and modification of another 101 minibuses, for a total of US$3.63 million; (b) replenishment of
spare parts inventories for a total of US$2.56 million; (c) workshop and other equipment for the Capital
Repair Facility in Ashgabat (excluding civil works), for a total of US$2.77 million; and (d) equipment for a
-4 -



vehicle location system and ticket sales/cancellation, for a total of US$2.00 rillion, subject to completing
a feasibility study and an implementation plan.
B.2 Cities of Mary and Turinenabat (US$1.64): vehicle rehabilitation, spare parts and workshop
equipment for local bus companies.
C. Technical Aistance and Training
C. 1 Technical assistance (USS1.00 million). About 60 person-months of external technical assistance,
provided in 2 phases. In the first phase, the consultants would continue the work on project preparation
(e.g.complete additional feasibility studies), and assist APAPO and the participating companies in
managing the project, including agreements between the three cities, APAPO and the companies;
implementation of the Operations Improvement Plan; tendering project-financed vehicles and equipment,
including monitoring the production of new vehicles and inspecting these vehicles at delivery. In the second
phase, the focus would shift to assisting with the reform of national policies in urban passenger transporl,
and organizing project-financed training.
C.2 Training (US$030 million). Training would be provided to the staffs of APAPO and the
participating companies as regards operations of new vehicles and equipment, and opportunities would be
provided to senior officials and managers to become familiar with international practices in public transport
regulation, planning and management
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no formal revisions of project components, but some changes in quantities of goods and their
allocation among the participating cities were made after bid evaluation and at the contracting stage (please
see Section 4.2 below).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The QAG Assessment. The quality of the project at entry was assessed by the Quality Assurance Group
in January 1998, i.e. some months after effectiveness. The project was rated as marginal (overall
assessment rating "3"). The individual category ratings were as follows:
Concepts, objectives and approach        2
Technical, economic and financial analyses  3
Environment analysis                      2
Social and stake-holder analysis         2
lnstitutional capacity analysis           3
Readiness for implementation             2
Risk assessment and sustainability        3
Bank inputs and processes                 3
The QA Panel acknowledged that the Project was well-integrated with the Country Assistance Strategy,
had explicit objectives arising out of a Bank-wide review of urban transport operations, did a clear
with/without evaluation of alternatives, and was innovative in its use of social assessment. On the negative
side, the Panel pointed at major project shortcomings in its technicaL economic and financial work,
institutional capacity analysis, and risk assessment. The brief textual part of the assessment is not
well-aligned with ratings and is contradictory on a major point The Panel writes that project objectives are
"clear and doable, ... and borrower commitment is unusually high for such important policy reforms" but
-6-



"the project is unlikely to be sustainable on financial, institutional and technical grounds". Major criticisms
were aimed at the project for financing standard-size buses, instead of "least-cost buses that are within the
population's payment capacity" and for not ensuring beforehand that a sufficient capacity existed locally
for the maintenance and repair of new vehicles. The panel recommended that the Project be restructured,
citing the need to stop the vehicle tender, underway at that time, to undertake/repeat the technical analyses
regarding the least-cost vehicle size and its financial implications, and build vehicle maintenance capacity
in the participating companies.
The QA Panel did not provide any analysis, or references to actual experience to back-up their strong
criticism of the investment part of the ProjecL The brevity was normal for rapid quality assessments, but
problematic given its unusual recommendations. These in effect amounted to stopping the Project (and
suspending disbursements) on technical (investment) grounds, in the middle of an active international
tender.
The Assessment of the Quality At-entry done at the Completion. The diagnostic analysis of the sector
was well done during project preparation, and the fumdamental problem of financing urban public transport
services received appropriate attention. The overall objective of good-quality and sustainable urban public
transport was well-chosen. The majority of the seven sub-objectives were well-chosen and clear, though the
list is much too long (see below). The objectives were in line with the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy,
which had called for: (a) reduction of subsidies in public services and the rationalization of the entire
subsidy system; (b) structural reforms in the economy including privatization; (c) strengthening
Government capacity to manage sectors considered of critical importance to an efficient economy, and (d)
imnproving services for low income population.
The Project opted to improve the public sector operation for urban transport services, with an opening for
private operators, and introduce a contractual relationships between municipalities and operators as a first
step towards eventual competitive tendering of services. An alternative strategic approach might have been
to reject the Borrower's request to prop up public-sector urban transport companies, advising them instead
to go for immediate privatization and deregulation of the sector, and offering assistance in this process.
This strategy was not taken in any of the Bank's urban transport operations in the region, and it appears the
least well-suited for Turkmenistan in its stage of development at the time. There is no evidence that the
Government was in the least inclined in this direction, at least not in the urban passenger context. The most
promising candidates for starting the deregulation and privatization in the transport sector are the freight
services and inter-city (bus) passenger services, where the potential for profit making is high. (In
Turkmenistan, liberalizing the freight and inter-city passenger services would have led inter alia to stopping
the cross subsidy from these sub-sectors to urban transport services, which had a detrimental impact on the
financial health and service development of the former). Moreover, the Bank's urban transport policy does
not recommend outright privatization and deregulation in urban public transport, not even as a desired
end-state. The Bank's preferred approach is that of regulated competition for the market, with operators
initially taking on the risks associated with operating costs only. The revenue risk would be passed to
operators at a later stage of the reform process. This approach accepts the survival of public-owned
operators under improved regulation, if they can improve efficiency to compete with private bidders. The
expectation is that the successful public operators would "naturally" pass into the private sector over time.
The approach taken in Turkmenistan was to accept the primacy of public sector operators for main-line
urban services, but to move these operators and the regulatory make-up of the sector along a path towards
competition for the market Complementing this was the introduction of the private operators, first through
the privatization of taxis then operated by MoAT, then by the liberalization of entry for small-scale private
operators on low-volume urban and suburban routes.
-6 -



The weak side of the approach actually taken by the Project was that the scope of the adopted reform
program was much too large and excessively ambitious, and the design was cumbersome. It is this aspect
of the Project which was missed by the QA Panel. The Project attempted to resolve many entrenched
sectoral problems in one operation, and over an extremely short period of time, a few months for some
actions and only 1-2 years for major policy reforms. The changes envisaged would pose a difficult
challenge in any one country, including the developed countries having the highest institutional capacity.
The participating transport companies were to implement the Operations Improvement Plans well before
the Project-financed technical assistance and investments would be implemented. The pivotal agreement, to
increase cost recovery to 100°/e of direct operating cost by the end of 1999, disregarded the well-known
problem with increasing prices for a service whose quality is failing. Worse yet, it took no note of the fact
that all public services in Turkmenistan were almost free at the time, and that wages received by the
population were very low, based on the past social contract Changing pricing policies for essential services
can be done on a partial sector-by-sector basis, but certainly not without regard to the wage policy and
movements, indeed the change of the entire social contract. Poland reached only 70°/o cost recovery in
urban transport services in the shock-therapy stage of its reforms, before it began to slide downwards, and
the experience in Hungary -another successful reformer- has been an even slower change (ust under 50%
for public transport services in Budapest, though with a different cost structure). Turkmenistan -a slow
reformer- was not likely to do as well certainly not better. A lack of realism is also visible in the
institutional reforms, notably in giving the city governments a major, new role in public transport
regulation, financing and oversight, without this being linked to the existence of a process of
decentralization and a related reform of government finance. The same comment applies to the proposed
transport regulatory mechanism, based on 3-way quasi-contrtal agreements between the cities, the
ministry and the operating companies. This was a complicated and cumbersome innovation done in
isolation from systemic changes in the position of cities and enterprises vis-a-vis the state, if there had been
any. The contracting culture in Turkmenistan was and still is at an early stage of development, and the
changes in power and resources between different leveLs and institutions of the government involve tangible
gains and losses, with potential losers quick to block the change. An almost unobtrusive reform aspect
added to the Project - having the remaining subsidies paid to the bus operators out of the central budget
rather than the Transport Fund - attacked a well-entrenched practice and major vested interests. This was
sure to encounter stiff resistance within the Government itself.
The success of the reform part of the project, because of its size and scope, would have been possible only
if the country as a whole was riding a wave of profound change, with a strong political consensus behind it.
This was not the case. The hindsight wisdom aside, there were enough reasons to be cautious about the
policy environment in Turkmenistan in 1997. The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy may have been upbeat
about the reform prospects, but it also contained clear warnings about policy stagnation, "a substantial
probability that policy performance will fall short" and "a danger that reforms would be delayed if export
revenues ... grow substantially, since the Government might feel relieved from the financial pressure."
Apart from the country-specific conditions, Bank-wide project experience for the late 1980s and early
1990s led the Operations Evaluation Department to conclude that "the rising complexity of projects has
outstripped borrower capacity to implement." OED recommended that analyses should be comprehensive
but the projects should be selective, start with small scale, use experimentation and adaptable
conditionality, and put much more effort into building local capacity. Finally, a peer review of the Initial
Executive Project Summary, dating from April 1995, argued that the project was too large and too
ambitious and proposed more of a pilot operation, with a minimal set of primary objectives. These
wamings should have sufficed to adopt a more prudent reform approach.
The investment components of the Project were well-suited to achieving the major objectives of ensuring
quicldy the return of a reasonable level of service to passengers and increasing the production efficiency of
- 7 -



enterprises. The program of technical assistance and training component, as shown in the agreed terms of
reference, covered all the main angles of implementing investments and reforms, and exposing the
borrower's staff and managers to the current practices in urban public transport operations, regulation and
planning.
Unlike the QA Panel, this assessment sees the decision to replace standard-size buses and troiley-buses by
the same size but higher-quality vehicles as a reasonable one. The Panel's argument that a least-cost
approach would favor buying mini-buses, without back-up analyses or the citation of successful
experiences elsewhere, is merely an expression of preference of Panel members. Moreover, the least-cost
approach is not appropriate in situations where the service levels and demands are variable. Altogether, the
importance of vehicle size dwindles in the presence of other problems faced by the urban transport services
in Turkmen cities at that time. Likewise, the Paners concemn for the local capacity to maintain new
vehicles is overblown given a demonstrated ability of the Turkmen bus operators to make do with poor
vehicles and low funds, and the fact that arrangements for training mechanics were included in the
contracts for the new vehicles. The Panel was correct to recommend a strong focus on maintenance during
supervision, but not in their recommendation to delay the vehicle tender (then in the middle of bid
evaluation) until the maintenance capacity is built.
This said, the financial and economic evaluation as done at appraisal left much to be desired. The financial
analysis should have been done at two levels, to look at the financial attractiveness of each major
investment (from the companies' point of view) and at the overal finances of each participating company.
in this case, only the second level of analysis was done. Annex 5.3 of the Staff Appraisal Report, entitled
"Financial Evaluation of Buses" is in fact a forecast of operating cash flows of the participating companies
for 1997-2010. The document does not state why financial analyses for the investment in new vehicles
were not done, the likely reason being that the data available were not sufficient to have a good-quality
comparison of different vehicle types and specifications. Instead, the team -mindful of the need to justify
the entire Project in terms of an economic rate-of-return- opted for a comprehensively ftamed economic
evaluation, comparing two options, a continuation of current investment, operating and regulatory practices
against what the Project was proposing. In other words, each option was a bundle of investments and
policies, and included both the supply (cost) side and the demand (user benefit) side. This approach is
conceptually correct, but -in terms of data and models needed to forecast costs and other factors for each
option- much more difficult than a narrow-scope financial analysis would have been. The poverty of data
required a use of numerous assumptions, so numerous that the result is of pedagogic interest, but has little
relevance for decision making. The decision to invest in new vehicles and to decide on the scale of the
purchase rested on the quality of the engineering analysis by the specialists on the Bank team and the
consultants commissioned by APAPO, rather than on the economic analysis.
In conclusion, this assessment differs from that done by the QAG in that the weakest part of the Project
was not its choice of bus size, but the design of the reform agenda. The Panel's recommendation should
have been to restructure the project by cutting the reform program down to size, and otherwise increasing
the likelihood of successful implementation and sustainability of the reforms. The record of the Panel's
discussions and the correspondence with the Region indicates that the technical issues received the most
attention, to the detriment of the reform issues.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project had a discontinuous and truncated life. Within 6 months of the loan effectiveness, the entire
-8 -



Bank program for Turkmenistan -including the Project- was suspended for about a year, from March 30,
1998 to June 1, 1999, due to irregularities under the Institutional Building Technical Assistance Loan (see
Section 5). The Project revived after the suspension was lifted in May 1999. Within weeks, awards were
made under the two large contracts (for buses and trolley-buses). Generally the procurement pipeline was
unblocked and the physical implementation proceeded well. This progress notwithstanding, the slow pace of
the reforms in the country as a whole and an apparent stand-still in the reform program under the Project
pointed to a need to restructure the operation, essentially to re-think the policy objectives, and probably
reduce them to a strategic minimum sine qua non. In the meanwhile, the Bank encouraged APAPO to
resolve the payment dispute with the consultants working under the main technical assistance contract, thus
paving the way for the return of the consultant's specialists to start the second stage of the contract and to
assist with the planned restructuring of the Project. Also as a step in preparing for the restructuring, the
Bank also requested APAPO to update information on the sector and the participating companies in detail,
to show what had taken place since the Loan was suspended. The payment dispute was resolved, but the
consultants were not invited for the second stage. The updated information showed that far from making
substantial progress, the Govermment had backed off even those actions made as conditions of
effectiveness. A year passed while the Bank was pressing the Borrower to revive the policy and institutional
initiatives. In the autumn of 2000, the Bank concluded that the Borrower's interest in the reform program
had waned. Disbursements were therefore suspended again in December 2000 and all new procurement was
stopped, while the Bank sought one more time a re-commitment of the Borrower to the development
objectives of the Project. This did not occur. In February 2001, the Government requested the Bank to stop
the project and cancel the remaining balance. The Loan was closed in June 2001, half a year before the
original closing date. For all practical purposes, project implementation ceased after July 2000, a year after
the re-activation. Some US$21 million was disbursed from the loan and about US$13 million was
cancelled.
The Project failed to achieve most of the sub-objectives listed in section 3.1 above, therefore it failed to
achieve its overall objective. The results for the sub-objectives have been as follows:
(i) APAPO was established nominally, composed of a PMG and OSG, as agreed. However, far from
becoming independent from MoAT, APAPO effectively remained a department within the Ministry.
After a brief initial period in the late 1997 to early 1998, it failed to pursue the impletnentation of the
agreed Operations Improvement Program or the policy reforms. The OSG had been disbanded during
the 1998-99 suspension and was not re-constituted after the Project was resumed. Only the PMG was
active throughout the project, but its activities were limited to procurement, disbursements and
communications with the Bank;
(ii) the initial administrative, service and performance agreements were signed between city
governments, APAPO and companies in all three cities, but evidently without the technical annexes
citing various service and cost parameters, which would have given these documents a practical weight.
No attempt was made to review and improve them annually, as had been agreed under the project.
They never became effective instruments of regulating the relations between the signatories, not just
because the documents lacked specificity but because it is not likely that a contracting approach could
work in a situation where all authority flows from the top of the national government.
(iii) cost recovery of the operating enterprises fell far short of the agreed target of 100% of direct
operating costs, in fact it fell short of what had been required for loan effectiveness. Due to the fact
that the effectiveness condition of 4O0/o cost recovery was stated in monthly terms, it could be met by
shifting expenditures from one month to another, rather than by increasing fares. It had been estimated
(in 1998) that a fare of about 220 manats would have sufficed to meet the targets, but the Government
- 9-



froze fares at their 1997 level of 50 manats, one U.S. cent at the official exchange rate and a
quarter-cent at the street rate. (Only the private bus operators, who serve mainly the fringes of urban
areas, were allowed to charge 500 manats). The Bofrower's Completion Report, available in the Project
File, shows (in annual terms) that between 1997 and 2000 the direct cost recovery stayed between 18
and 21% for the Ashgabat Bus Company, and fell for the Ashgabat Trolley-bus Company from about
23% in 1997 to 12% in 2000. Only the Ashgabat Minibus Company increased its direct cost recovery
from about 31% in 1997 to 53% in 2000. This was achieved with little more than a half of the initial
fleet, at the cost of doubling the passenger load per vehicle-km. That the Minibus Company was also
the only company whose patronage over the period 1997-2000 increased about 20% suggests that the
passenger discomfort due to overloading and increased waiting times was trumped by something else
the company was doing right, probably allowing the weekend service. For all companies, the total cost
recovery was usually at 100%. This meant that the subsidy sufficient to balance the books was paid
regularly. The subsidies were paid from the Transport Fund, against the agreement that the general
budget should be used for this. The fact that the books were balanced does not mean that the financing
problem of the companies was resolved. Subsidies and in-kind assistance notwithstanding, expenditures
by company managers were and still are highly constrained, so the operating income statements
underestimate even the true financial costs. In view of distorted prices of fuel and energy, the real
economic costs must be underestimated by a large margin.
(iv) Operations Improvement Plans for the participating operators were not implemented as envisaged.
The consultants, who were meant to be instrumental in introducing the new management approaches,
and helping with the implementation of the Operations Improvement Program and the Action Plan,
were commissioned for the first phase of technical assistance. This, however, consisted mainly of
producing preliminary feasibility studies and training program outlines. The first phase contract was
arrested after the loan suspension and not continued afterwards. The second phase never materialized.
(v) the supply of bus and trolley-bus services was irnproved through the project, but only in the last
year (2000) when the new vehicles were placed in service. in 2000, average headways decreased to 11
minutes for diesel-buses and 13 minutes for trolley-buses, relative to a 15 minutes target. In that same
year, fleet availability increased to 72% for diesel-buses, relative to the target of 80%; trolley-buses
achieved 83% relative to the target of 90%. The Borrower's ICR states that the increase in the
frequency and reliability of services, due to the introduction of new vehicles, was noted and welcomed
by the travelers. This may well have been the main benefit of the Project
(vi) private sector participation in the provision of transport services has increased, but mainly in
suburban and inter-city market, where private operators cany about 70%/o of the market. This is less so
on urban routes. In the period 1997-2000, the Ministry of Motor transport sold about 200 buses and
minibuses and 780 taxis to private individuals. The former operate at a fare of 500 manats on both
urban and suburban routes, but the trend appears to be that they are opting out or being pushed out of
the urban route networkl The method of route allocation consists of simple permits.The agreed study of
competitive tendering for public transport services was not done, and there were no pilot tests of a
tendering approach. No actions were taken by the authorities to assist the private sector in getting
access to financing for investing in fleet and equipment.
(vii) the initial Social Assessment was carried out in 1996 through a random sample of 400 residents of
Ashgabat, as a part of the project preparation process. This was not repeated in subsequent years,
much less instituted as a routine part of planning and pricing urban public transport services. The
Borrower's view is that their normal political processes provide for the residents expressing their views
directly to the local government, and that social assessments are too costly relative to their value added.
- 10-



4.2 Outputs by components:
Referring to the list of the originally agreed components provided in the preceding section, the outputs of
the Project are as follows:
A. New Vehicles Component:
* 100 standard size, diesel buses were purchased at a unit price of about $104,800 (a price about
13% lower than expected); they were all allocated to Ashgabat Bus Company; and
*  46 trolley-buses were purchased, at a unit price of about US$177,000 (a price 10% higher than
expected); they were allocated to Ashgabat Trolley-Bus Company (as planned).
The pilot purchase of 10 CNG-propelled buses was dropped, due to very high bid prices.The average bid
price was $240,000, nearly 80% higher than the expected price, and more than twice that of the winning
price for diesel buses. To compensate for this cancellation, the Bank agreed to increase the number of
diesel-powered buses by 10.
Because of the loan suspension and disputes regarding bid evaluation, the procurement process for these
new vehicles took 1.5 years longer to conclude than had been planned. To compensate for this, the
quantities were increased by 15%, using the standard variation clause in the purchase contracts. Also due
to the unexpected procurement delay, in part due to the suspension, the Government had to make
intermediate adjustments to its vehicle allocation plan. With Bank agreement, all 100 diesel-buses
purchased under the project were allocated to the bus company in Ashgabat, and none went to the cities of
Mary and Turkmenabat. Instead of 28 new buses, the companies in Mary and Turkmenabat received 14
Iranian-made buses, bought by the Government with own funds, and were to receive 70 buses from the
Ashgabat company, after they were overhauled. The Bank accepted this change, which in effect eliminated
the cities of Mary and Turkmenabat from the project, in anticipation of the project being restructured in
2000 to limit it to the capital city. The restnicturing plans were eventually overtaken by the decision to
close the project without completing the implementation.
B. Maintenance and Rehabilitation Component:
This component is the main victim of the early closing of the Loan. Spare parts for buses, troUey-buses and
minibuses were purchased for a total of US$1.8 milion, but vehicle rehabilitation and workshop
sub-components were not implemented.
C. Technical Assistance and Training:
Of this entire component, only the first phase of the main technical assistance contract was implemented,
for about US$247,000. Some minor training services were also financed, amounting to about US$7,000.
Under the technical assistance contract, the consultants delivered the following:
*  feasibility study for a fare collection system;
*  feasibility study for vehicle location and monitoring system;
*  route optimization study for Ashgabat;
*  three reports for the O1P program, on spares, workshop equipment and inventories management
- 11 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisaL the economic evaluation was done for the two main investment components, diesel buses and
trolley-buses (additional details in Annex 3 below). The bus component had a forecast net present worth of
US$8.3 million and the trolley-bus component a forecast net present worth of US$1.4 million. These
forecasts were contingent on the implementation of the Operations Improvement Plan and also the reforms
cited above, especially the increase in the cost recovery from fare revenues. The Project documents stated
that if these were not implemented, the expected net present worth of the Project would become negative.
The net present worth was not re-estimated at the end of Project implementation. This was judged neither
feasible nor worthwhile under the circumstances of the project's life and the manner of its closing. First, the
comprehensive approach to evaluation used at appraisal does not offer itself to an easy replication (please
see Section 8, on Lessons Learned, and Annex 3 on Economic Costs and Benefits). Second, even the
micro-impacts would be difficult to discern, given the aggregate and incomplete nature of the data available
from the participating companies. Third, not even one full year's worth of cost and performance
infonnation (the minimum needed) is available. The new vehicles arrived throughout the year 2000, the last
full year of the Project. The data provided by the participating companies show that the influx of new
vehicles already in the year 2000 raised the fleet availability for service, as well as the frequency of service
to passengers (Annex 1). The 2000 data on reliability are inconclusive. It will take at least another two
years of experience with the new fleet to be able to make meaningful comparisons between the actual and
expected operating costs, and the before and after level of service. This said, nothing in the early experience
with the new vehicles contradicts high expectations of their high performance.
While the benefits from having chosen good-quality vehicles at reasonable prices are likely, the prospects
for a longer-term, aggregate net gain in economic terms are dim. In trying to gauge whether the Project
would result in a net economic gain or net economic loss, the key factor is that the Operations
Improvements Program and the agreed institutional and financial reforms were not done. The Project as
implemented represents a blend of the without-project scenario and the capital-intensive portion of the
with-project scenario. This suggests that the cited benefits in terms of travel time and comfort of
passengers, with some operating cost savings due to high-quality vehicles cannot be sustained in the
absence of a better organization and financing of public transport companies.
It follows that in the aggregate, within the analytic framework as set up at appraisal, and as the matters
stand at completion, the Project may turn out to be a net economic loss to the country. This conclusion is
highly contingent, and therefore reversible. Any time the Government decides to carry out the essential
sector reforms, broadly in line with what had been agreed under this Project, and sooner in the economic
life of the new vehicles the better, the prospects for a net economic gain would improve.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not calculated at appraisal, either for major investments or for the Project
as a whole. This is regrettable since the financial analysis of even the partial benefits would be of practical
interest to the decision makers. In aggregate terms, given that the investments under the Project will show in
the companies' cost accounts, but without a counter-increase in revenue, the expected overall financial
rate-of-return would be negative.
- 12 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The main tangible institutional development impact of the Project may have been the exposure to
international competitive bidding and international shopping, given that several APAPO staff acquired the
relevant skils and experience. The potential for this benefit to materialize is not negated by the fact that
subsequent vehicle purchases by the MoAT, from their own funds, have taken a single-source, negotiated
price approach rather than an international competition. The skiUs have been gained by the staff, and the
benefits have been demonstrated. What is needed is a change of policy by the decision makers. The
potential is also present for other beneficial impacts. APAPO staff have been exposed to different policy
and regulatory approaches for urban public transport services, including the complex issues behind costs,
revenues and subsidies. This knowledge wil be useful if and when the next and more successful wave of
public sector reforms arises in Turkmenistan.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was affected, perhaps beyond recovery, by the suspension of the Bank program for
Turkmenistan, made effective in March 1998. The reasons for this suspension had to do with procurement
irregularities under another Bank operation. The suspension came just as the second supervision mission
was to visit Ashgabat, and at a delicate stage of bid evaluation for the two largest tenders under the Project,
for buses and trolley-buses. Bid evaluation reports were submitted by APAPO in December 1997, and
there were several major points of contention, e.g. regarding the elimination of some bids as technically
unresponsive. The suspension came at the worst possible moment for this activity. No Bank supervision
nissions visited Ashgabat during the suspension. The procurement-related correspondence was maintained
for the two active tenders, albeit at a slow rate. (As noted above, the bus and troley-bus tenders were
completed 1.5 years later, in August 1999, after the suspension was lifted). No new procurement matters
were processed during the program suspension. The Government responded by reducing the staff of
APAPO, essentially eliminating the Operations Support Group, and by stopping the activities of the
technical assistance consultants, who were just about to complete the first phase of their activities. This last
move resulted in a payment dispute later on, which took 6 months to resolve after the suspension was lifted.
Given that its origins were not related to this Project, the program suspension may have destroyed the spirit
of partnership between the MoAT and the Bank, thus contributing to the demise of the operation. All
non-investment activities stopped, and would have been difficult to re-actvate fully, even with all sides
willing. The Ministry was especially vexed at having to continue paying commitment fees on the
un-disbursed balance, essentially equal to the entire loan amount, while at the same time it could not draw
on the loan funds. A recent post-closing audit of the Project by the Turkmenistans Ministry of Finance
questioned the obligation to pay these fees during suspension. In response, the Bankes Legal Department
explained that there was no provision in the Loan Agreement including the General Conditions for any
waiver for the Borrower regarding the payment to the Bank of the commitment charges and interest during
the suspension of disbursement.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
At the time when the Project was being appraised and negotiated, Turkimenistan had faced severe
macro-economic difficulties stemming from the breakup of the Soviet Union. The terms of trade and access
-13-



to markets for its two main products - natural gas and cotton- were poor. In addition, the Government had
high expectations of earnings from natural gas exports and had undertaken a large public investment
program coupled with extensive subsidies for goods and services. The result was a severe recession:
between 1993-95, gas production collapsed, real GDP fell by more than 300/o and real wages declined by
80%/e. The servicing of its sizeable external debt became a problem. Against this background, the loan funds
provided under the Project were cmucial to prevent a collapse of a public service deemed essential in major
cities, and the reform program may have been seen by the Govemrnment at that time as unavoidable.
As the Project implementation started and then got delayed through suspension, the economic fortunes of
Turkmenistan brightened. Hitting the bottom in 1998, the economy started to rebound with the recovery of
gas exports to Russia, as well as increased oil and cotton exports. The combination of a better financial
situation and the disappointments over the delays due to the suspension, may have cooled off the
commitment to reforms in the country and in this sector, such as it was. Tbis, and a persistent, genuinely
held belief in the vintue of providing low-priced goods and services to the population, while maintaining a
high degree of centralization, may have doomed the Project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The only significant achievement of the Project is that it has improved the level of service to residents of
Ashagabat This can be sustained only under two possible scenarios for the future: (i) that the country's
export earmings continue to increase, which will provide the funds to close the gap between the real costs of
providing goods and services and the sales revenue, and/or (ii) that the Govermment undertake far-reaching
reforms, which would raise the relative share of wages in the GNP, thus permitting an increase in cost
recovery for a wide array of services now provided at low cost or free. Under these scenarios, preferably
under their combination, the financial status of urban transport companies could improve to permit efficient
vehicle maintenance and repair, as well as timely replacement of aged stock. Further increases in
sustainability could be achieved through deregulation and a greater private sector involvement.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The only substantial change introduced by the Project is the arrival of new bus and trolley-bus vehicles.
The improved performance made possible by this can be sustained in the short term because of an
apparently good local culture of vehicle maintenance, plus the training for mechanics provided under the
contracts with the vehicles suppliers. In the longer term, however, the sustainability will depend on the
resolution of the pricing, financing and other regulatory issues cited above.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance during the early part of the Project cycle is dappled. On the positive side, a
considerable effort was put into studying the sector and preparing the Project in its investment and policy
- 14 -



dimensions. The Staff Appraisal Report reflects the team's adequate understanding of urban transport
problems and the underlying structural problems and issues. The team did a major job in collecting
information from a zero base in a country where information sharing is not widely practiced. Also, the
Project was among the first Bank operations in this region to initiate a social survey as a tool to study the
demand side of urban transport, especially the linkages to poverty. Finally, and contry to the findings of
the Quality At-Entry Assessment, the team did creditable technical analyses as regards the make-up of the
investment plan.
On the negative side, as discussed in more detail in Section 3.1 above, the Bank erred in being overly
ambitious as regards the reform agenda and its schedule. This judgement is separate and independent from
the impact that loan suspension and the improvement of Turkmenistan's budget revenues had on the
Borrower's commitment to the agreed reforms. It is unlikely that the much of the agenda was doable even
under much more propitious circumstances. Laying aside the difficult question of the Borrower's initial
commitment, the Bank did not do an adequate job of estimating the Borrower's capacity to change and the
risks to implementation.
Also on the negative side is the make-up of the Loan Agreement. The mapping of the reform program into
clauses of the Agreement failed to distinguish between essential and nonessential aspects. While only a
single clause in the main body of the document refers to the entire reform program, a system of linked
references made several detailed annexes of the Staff Appraisal Report into integral parts of the Loan
Agreement The result was that there were 23 dated covenants in the Loan, which was sure to overtax both
the Borrower and Bank. The Loan Agreement was as complicated in linking procurement with the progress
of the reforms. For example, the main bus contract was to be funded through no less than 3 disbursement
categories, each attached to a policy condition. Finally, the document has errors and omissions in such
matters as schedules for progress and financial reporting.
The turnover of Bank staff throughout this stage of the project cycle was much too high, and may have
contributed to communication difficulties with the Borrower. The lead responsibility for project
management changed at appraisal, then changed again immediately after appraisal. During the completion
mission, the key counterparts from APAPO/ Ministry of Auto Transport identified this aspect of Bank
performance as the weakest one, apart from the suspension they felt they had not deserved.
In conclusion, the overall performance of the Bank in this stage of the Project is rated not satisfactorv.
7.2 Supervision:
The first supervision period, from approval until suspension, was quite brief and stopped for reasons
outside the domain of influence of the project team. The two supervision missions mounted in this period
focussed, rightly, on the project launch, the activities to meet effectiveness conditions, the commissioning of
technical assistance, and launching of the largest tenders (for new vehicles).
At the effectiveness stage, the Bank may have missed the signals indicating that either the Borrower was
not fully committed to the reform and/or lacked the capacity to carry them out. The formal notification (by
the Borrower) regarding the achievement of the 40% cost recovery target for effectiveness was accepted by
the Bank at face value (please see Section 4.1(iii)). Though no requirement for specific fare increases was
included in the Loan Agreement, there was no way of reaching the agreed cost recovery targets without
major fare increases. At effectiveness, the Bank should have asked for evidence that such an increase had
actually taken place. Also, the various administrative, service and performance agrements signed between
APAPO, the municipalities and the companies were accepted by the Bank though they evidently lacked the
- 15 -



detailed annexes. The textual front of each agreement may be perfect, but it is the quantitative technical and
financial annexes which are essential to lend substance to the document, to make it doable, monitor the
contracted performance on both sides, guide the future changes, and build confidence among the
signatories.
In conclusion, the Bank performance as regards effectiveness is rated not satisfactory. The performance on
the other cited aspects of this early stage of supervision is rated satisfactorv.
The second supervision period is from re-activation of the Project to the closing of the Loan. The
re-activation mission included a senior Bank expert in the transport field, sending a strong signal of the
lender's continuing interest and commitment to the Project. This mission wased no time in acknowledging
that the reform agenda of the Project was not realistic and recommending its major restructuring. Under
different circumstances, it may have been better to restruture the Project before full re-activation. Given
that the Project was re-activated just as it had been suspended, i.e. for the Bank-s country program as a
whole, the restructuring was recommended for the nearest future. Once the project re-started, the Bank
(with a new team) showed an appropriate willingness to start on a positive note by resolving the
outstanding procurement issues, without any policy strings attached. In fact, contract awards for the two
large vehicle tenders, amounting to almost one-third of the entire loan amount, took place immediately
following the re-activation mission. In subsequent supervision activities, a cautious approach was used to
test the Borrower's commitment to the Project. Before attempting to restructure the Project, the team
insisted on the Borrower's delivery of updated information on the participating transport companies and the
resumption of the technical assistance contract . This was appropriate, given a long pause in all contacts
and information exchange between APAPO and the Bank (except in the procurement-related matters), and
an immediately apparent weakness in APAPO's team in all but procurement. This last made it imperative to
have the external techniical assistance personnel in place for at least some weeks, to prepare for a de facto
re-appraisal before continuing with the previously planned second-phase activities. After several months'
delay in having these simple conditions met, a mission was sent to the field to re-assess the situation and the
Borrower's intentions, ensure proper procurement and financial management organization in the PMG, and
speed up the delivery of information. These efforts failed to produce encouraging results, and what little
information was gained indicated a reform stand-stll The Project team wasted no time in alerting the
country and regional management to this, asking for an intervention at the highest level of the Government
Ultimately, the team judged that the Borrower had abandoned the strategic objectives of the Project, and
recommended to the regional management that the operation be closed immediately. This was done
following an intensive process of intemal consultation and communications with the Government
On the basis of its structured approach to project re-activation and its pro-activity in having the project
closed once the results were not forthcoming, the supervision effort at this stage is rated satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
It is recognized that there has been some excellent work done by Bank staff during both preparation and
implementation, that the suspension was an unusual and consequenial force majeure, and that the
Borrower had abandoned the agreed strategic objectives of the Project Still, this is overweighed by a lack
of realism in the reform program, and by not "catching" both this serious shortcoming of the Project and the
Borrower's wavering at two stages: at effectiveness and at the quality-at-entry assessment The excessive
turnover of staff and managers, may have contributed to lacunae in both concept and execution, and
certainly made communications with the Borrower difficult The overall rating of Bank performance
therefore is not satisfactory.
- 16 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance at the preparation stage is rated satisfacoy. The Project was initiated
following a specific request by the Government. It was evident that the Govermnent had been aware of
pervasive supply-side difficulties in public transport services and their negative impacts on urban life and
economy. The Borrower's strongest focus evidently was on the investment aspects of the Project, in terms
of vehicles, parts, equipment, and facilities. The Borrower showed some reluctance as regards the policy
reforms, which was a consistent, across-the board attitude in Bank work in Turkmenistan at that time, and
has been ever since. Still, the Borrower was active in the design of the reform package and the senior
officials involved were in agreement as regards the organizational innovations such as the creation of
APAPO, its shortcomings notwithstanding. There was also some resistance to financing the technical
assistance out of loan funds. This is nearly always present given very large differences between wage rates
of local professionals and those of the international consultants, especially when they are extreme as in
Turkmnenistan, and should not affect the rating.
7.5 Governnent implementation performance:
The main responsibility of the Government under this Project was to ensure the implementation of the
agreed reform program, and according to the agreed schedule. Between themselves, the MoAt and the
Cabinet of Ministers had all the necessary jurisdiction and legal instruments to make this happen. As noted
above, very little of the agreed program was implemented at all, and even less in substance. Moreover, the
Bank was willing to restructure the Project after its re-activation in 1999 to make the reform less onerous,
and made this clear to the Government. The latter failed to take this offer or explain its position. On this
basis, the Government's performance during project implementation is rated not satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
The Borrower's keen focus on investments during the preparation stage turned during implementation into a
creditable effort as regards procurement. Even during the period of loan suspension, when all other
activities ceased, the Project Management Group remained largely intact, and went on with processing the
tenders aheady started and preparing other tenders. The hitches in procurement, including differences of
view between APAPO and the Bank regarding vehicle specifications and the technical evaluation of bus
and trolley-bus bids, are common in Bank experience with intemational competitive bidding, and have
occurred in each instance of vehicle procurement under similar projects in the region. This aspect of
APAPO's performance is rated satisfactorv.
On the other hand, APAPO did not take seriously enough the standard loan requirements for information
exchange, and progress reporting. Not a single progress report was submitted during the Project, and the
response to Bank requests for operational and (unaudited) financial statistics of the participating transport
companies, after the Project was re-activated, was unusually slow. This aspect of APAPO's performance
is rated not satisfactory.
The audits of project accounts and the Special Account were taken seriously, though with delays at the
stage of commissioning the auditors. The final audit reports for project accounts and the Special Account
(for the period January 1, 2000 to May 31, 2001) were received in November 2001 and were satisfactory.
Per contra, audits of APAPO and the participating companies were neglected while the Project was active,
the Bank receiving only the unaudited accounts, and even those with long delays. Within project completion
- 17-



activities, APAPO commissioned these audits for 1999-2000, with an expected completion date of
December 31, 2001. APAPO's audit-related performance is rated Marflly satis
Overall, the performance of the implementing agency is rated marginally satisfactorv.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The main policy agenda agreed under the Project was abandoned by the Government, and the operational
improvements m companies did not provide the necessary complment to large mvestments m new vehicles
made under this Project. The overall Borrower performance therefore is rated not satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The scope of the reform agenda. In line with assessments made above, the most important lesson from
this Project is that the scope and depth of institutional and policy changes have to be well linked to the
political environment in which it is to be implemented. Project desirability at the approval stage should not
be judged by its policy reach, but by its selectivity and realism, linked to as solid as possible an
understanding of the clients' interest and capacity as regards change. Comprehensiveness is a desirable
feature of analyses made during identification and preparation, and of an overall agenda for the sector
and/or a city. Rarely is it a desirable feature of project development objectives. The hypothesis that the
project/loan approval process generates pressures to enlarge the reform agenda beyond what is doable
needs to be explored.
Judging the commitment and the capacty of the Borrower. The Bank may have erred in estimating the
Borrower's commitment and surely erred in estimating its capacity for change in this Project. Between
commitment and capacity, the latter is easier to analyze and gauge, but is often not done to a sufficient
depth. We should expect all aspects of project management, not just procurement and finance, to be
assessed in depth during project preparation. The commitment to change and the related project risks are
much more difficult to judge, not least because this requires Bank teams to have nontraditional skills, a
substantial professional experience, and country experience. None of these is in abundant supply. The term
"commitment" does not only refer to the current decision makers on the borrower's side, but also the
strength of other forces in the borrowers' countries which may be inimical or friendly to the considered
changes. The adoption of a political economy angle of analysis and inclusion of staff specialized for this
may help. Also, the continuity in team leadership is an essential ingredient in this respect, since the
personality factors sometimes may overrule the analytic ones. Finally, there are project design features
meant specifically to address the commitment risks. These include moving some of project conditionality
well upstream in the project preparation process, introducing self-selection among potential borrowers
based on explicit policy and/or performance criteria, and using multi-phase loans with performance triggers
(e.g. as in sector adjustment loans).
The reform agenda and the legal condidons The Loan/Project Agreements only, not the Project
Appraisal Document, should define the contractual obligations undertaken by the Borrower. The lesson
from this Project is that quality of the Lon/Project Agreements should receive as much attention from the
project team as do the Project Appraisal Document and the Project Implementation Plan. Just as the loan
agreements commonly and conveniently group progress and financial reportng, and audit requirements, so
should another section of the document group all dated covenants referring to policy/institutional reforms.
A list of these should be readily exportable into the supervision documentation. In line with the preceding
recommendation on the scope of the reform agenda, dated covenants should only be used for critical
- 18 -



actions, and refer preferably to discrete, one-time events. An oft proposed but not followed criterion is that
dated covenants should only be used for matters where noncompliance would rate sanctions. Other
activities and milestones, important but less essential to the achievement of the development objectives, can
be tracked through the progress reporting system, without being made into covenants, and handled through
discussion, not a threat of sanctions. This is especially so for objectives referring to continuous type
activities, e.g. efficiency improvements in a bus company.
The resistance to external consultants. The resistance to studies and direct technical assistance comes at
least in part from the wage differentials between the consultants from the higher-income countries and the
borrowers' staff. It may be reduced by paying special attention to including on short lists the consultants
from other, more advanced transition countries. Other reasons may include studies or direct technical
assistance not focused enough on what the bonrowers believed were their real needs. Alternatively, the
outputs of technical assistance may not be suited for coexistence with the borrowers' normal procedures.
Under this Project; MoAT/APAPO had no problems with paying hard currency for training the
maintenance staff from its companies for dealing with new vehicles, because the new skldls could be
plugged in immediately into their existing procedures. Per contra, they used the first opportunity available
to stop a consultancy for operational and policy improvements, because its first-phase outputs did not
match their perceived needs. This aspect can be improved by working on the borrowers' ownership of the
terms of reference, including better focusing on the quality of technical assistance and on the fit of its
outputs to the borrowers' agencies routine activities.
The quality control process. The quality-at-entry Panel for this Project criticized its narrow technical
aspects, e.g. the choice of bus size and other specifications, but did not pick up the likely problems with the
development agenda, the importance of which dwarfs any likely margin of error in choosing between buses
of different size. The Panel in fact praised the project for an unusually high commitment of the Borrower,
but proposed that an on-going tender for new vehicles, then under bid evaluation, be stopped while
engineering, financial and economic work be redone to test a panelists' hunch on bus size. The actual
results of the Project indicate that the quality assessment went off the mark. The Panel missed the
importance of the reform process for the economic impacts of the Project, which had been carefully spelled
out in the project documentation. Furthermore, choosing the appropriate vehicle specifications, and
mapping this choice into financial and economic analysis, is not a simple process. It does not offer itself to
easy second-guessing by a panel member on the basis of reading a project appraisal document. Per contra,
asessing the realism of a reform agenda should be easier, given the abundance of Bank experience with
project-leveraged reforms. The lesson from this experience alone is not sufficient to generalize about the
usefulness of the quality-at-entry assessment, but its potential pitfalls need to be noted. The QA process, at
least its rapid version, may be too quick and too concerned with numerical ratings to be thorough and
constructive. It is also late in the project cycle. The quality control upstream of project entry should be
stronger. The current process include strict upstream control and even an obligatory sign-off for
fiduciary and safeguard aspects. In a period of dwindling budgets, the focus on these important
but peripheral aspects may have diverted resources and attention away from a review of
investment (technical and economic) analyses and the development agenda itself, i.e. the heart of
each project. The peer review is a valuable and necessary instrument in this regard, but may not be
sufficiently strong to produce changes in project design and ensure quality.
Economic and finanDCal evaluation. No financial evaluation for major vehicle purchases was done at
appraisal for this Project. This is regrettable, since the project involves a setting for which the equipment
replacement and/or expansion techniques were originally developed and have been widely practiced. Even if
the revenue aspect is excluded from the analyses, given that the companies do not set their own price policy
-19 -



and/or that the forecasting is difficult, the financial comparison of vehicle retirement vs. rehabilitation and
replacement in cost terms only is a standard practice in the business world. It is a must for managers in the
private sector, and therefore an important skill to pass to decision makers in the client countries
undertaking a transition to market economies. A good analysis of this kind, however, would have required a
major and costly effort to collect data on life cycle costs of various vehicles. Instead, a much more
comprehensive approach to economic evaluation was adopted under this Project. This had the advantage of
conceptual correctness, but led to major problems in the execution. Without having detailed data and little
basis for forecasting, the full demand/supply framework required the use of numerous and sometimes
heroic assumptions, which ultimately casts a shadow of doubt over the results. These are surely less
informative and tustworthy than would have been the case if only the limited-scope but detailed financial
analyses had been done. The findings of the evaluation as done would be irrelevant to company managers,
and not just in Ashgabat. The lesson from this experience is that the Bank practice of evaluation,
specifically as regards investments involving vehicle replacement in financially constrained environments,
leaves much to be desired and should be re-thought. The tension between usefulness and comprehensiveness
may end up by satisfying neither. The staff are mainly concerned with justifying the proposed investments
using a nominally correct economic framework, whether or not the data allow it. Instead, they should be
encouraged to try simpler, but more useful approaches, based on better data. A compromise may be
possible, with multiple narrow-scope, higher-uality analyses nested within a larger conceptual frame with
lower expectations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indfoat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ............                    . . .          ... ....Lteteg...
.....~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~E-,''...',,.'.,..' '.'.:..
1.1 (a) Estaish Permance Contract                                         (a) The P    rma   Conacts wIth th
betveen APAPO and each of ths                                              companies hI Ashgabat wer signed hI
participating transport companes.                                          Augu 1997, hI Mary in Febmry 1988, and
(b) cany out annual reviws of the Contrat,                                in Tuwmenabat in March 1998.
the first to be held In August                                             (b) The amual revew procss was not
1998.                                                                      folowed.
1.2 (a) Estabsh Servbe ConrBc between                                      The Service Conbacts for Ashgabat were
each Muniopality and APAPO.                                                signed hI August 1997, for Mary in February
(b) cany out annual revws, the first such                                  1998, and for Tudrmenabat In March 1998.
review to be held no later than August 31,                                 The annual review prwess was not done.
1998.
2.1 Provde trainwig to staff hI dveloping                                  A 2-stage trinhg pmgram for the staff of
management nhfofmation and financal                                        APAPO and the operating companies was
accounting systems.                                                        prepared by the consultants just before the
2.2 Prvide staff training in operations and                               suspension in March 1998; tis component
maintenance to strengthen ransport                                         was not revived after the suspension was
companies.                                                                 Mod hI 1999.
3.1 Estabish a system to compensate                                        Exemptiors wer removed for policemen and
transport enterprises drectly for revenue                                  the mitary, but etaried for invalids and
bsses due to fare exemptions - coverhg                                     WfVII veterans. The Ministry of Social Affairs
25% exemptions by December 1997; 50X by                                    agreed to pay compation, but has baed to
September, 1998; 80% by September, 1999;                                   do so. No dea wer provided on the vokiume
and 100% by December, 1999.                                                of exempted trips.
3.2 Implement a system for yearly budget                                   A system of advance payfient of subsides to
alocation of subsidies to APAPO, beginning                                 each company was impemented. The
FY98.                                                                      companies, by and large, ended each year
with babnced accounts.
3.3 Improve cost recovery (excluding                                       In the period 1997-2000, the cost recovery
depreciation) to 50% by December 1997;                                     frm fares remalned In the 19-21% range for
70% by September, 1998; 85% by                                             Ashgabat Bus Company, fed from 24% to
September, 1999; and 100% by Decenber,                                     11.5% for Ashgabat Troliey-Bus Company,
1999.                                                                      and increased from 31% to 53% for
Ashgabat Mintius Company.
4.1 Reduce headways from current 20                                        For Ashgabat Bus Company, the average
minutes tD 15 minutes by December 1997                                     headway was reduced frm 22 mfin 
and maintawi thereafter.                                                   1997-98 and 20 min hI 1999, t I1 rrn n
2000. The Troiey-Bus Company readied 13
min headway hI 2000, but the Minbus
Company hreased headways from 27 min
in 1997 to 32 min In 2000 due to reduced
11,90t.
4.2 Reduce service breakdowns fmm                                          Data not conclusive.
current 20% to less than 5% by December,
1997, and maintain theafter.
4.3 Reduos accidents per 10,000 veh-km
from current 0.8 to iess than 0.5 by
Deoember, 1997, and maintain theeafter.
4.4 lmipe diebus avalablity from                                           For buses, 65% avieblity rate was achieved
current 55% to 65% by December 1997, and                                   hI 1997; 67% was achieved In 1998; and
to 80% by Septmber 1996, and mantain                                       72% was achieved hi 1999-2000.
thereafter.
4.5 Improve tleybus avallabilty fmm                                        For trolley-buses, 88% avalabity rate was
cumrret 70% to 80% by December 1997 and                                    achieved in 1997 and 1999; it fe1 t 78% in
to 90% by September 1998, and maintain                                     1998; and 83% was achieved in 2000.
thereafter.
4.6 Reduce staff per operable bus from                                     Ashgabat Bus Company reduced staff to 6.5
current 12 to 10 by December, 1997; 8 by                                   staff per operable bus hI 1997; to 5.7 in
Septmber, 1998; and 56 by September,                                       1998; to 5.1 hI 1999; and tD 4.3 in 2000.
-21 -



1999.
5.1 MaintaI adequate kvntDy of spare                                      Spare   t were purchased from loan funds
parts in each of the tnsport entrpries for                                and from own soun  to maitain  threshold
carfyig out rute mintenance, boegning                                     lw  of vehcis avaibbbt.
December, 1997
52 Impement procedurs to prvide                                           Not dons, but somn Investments hI vehicls
financing lor capital brvestnints to maintain                             wem waede wM Mnisty funds, e.g. 80 now
and expand bus avaabUlty In the three                                     12-sat ninbuses bought hI 2001. WIN
participating ci, beyond 1999.                                            prove smat-only, higher fare service.
6.1 Prtvatiz tad opaetbon gnKkaly                                         Durig 1997-2000, 964 vahiles w
through the leasing or sale of vehils to                                  pivatdzed, of which 778 tads. Ante 1,100
piivate divers in accordance wih the Acion                                vehices reman the ppety of the Miistry of
Plan, with 100% piivaS Wa d operatins by                                  Motor Transpopt and the preesss continues.
September, 1999.
7.1 Develop Insrunments of Soclel                                         No Sodial Assemmets we  done b-yond
Assessmet by Septembr. 1997; publish                                      the hil  one In 1996. The Miistry of
first set of reast of SA hI Decmber 1997                                  Trnspost stted that tis was too expe
and continue to bong out SA evey yea In                                   relative to th routine hin cbton that
Septenber and hold publc disc ns.                                         operathig companris had with ctzens.
This table follows exactly Annex 4.6 of the Staff Appraisal Report, Project Monitorable Indicators.
Because of the unusual history of the Project, including the paucity of specific information addressing the
progress of various activities, the last PSR based on a field mission did not make any projections of
outcome indicators.
Re items 4 in the table, diesel buses and trolley-buses purchased under the project arrived in batches
throughout the year 2000; these new vehicles had an impact on performance only during a part of that year;
moreover, due to the 1998-99 suspension and eventual cancellation, the Government made seveml other
fleet purchases and swaps between companies, so that changes in performance indicators cannot be
attributed to what litde was done from the initiatives envisaged under the project.
Re items 4.4 and 4.5: this is availability for service; the actual fleet utilization was much lower.
Output Indicators:
h~~~at~~IMtalx  ~............ ........ Pto.g. ittiS~ 
Number of standard-size, desel buses                                      100 standard-sze diesel bues bought,
bought (52 planned at appraisal)                                          delivered and placed in service
Number of standard-sze CNG-powed                                          Canceled at bid evaluation stage
buses bought (10 planned at appraisal
Number of stndard-size troley-bses                                        46 standarize toley-buses bought,
bought (40 planned at appaisal)                                           de d and plced hI sevice
Number of buses, trolly-bues and                                          Compont c ld  d ban dosing
ffnbuses nrhabilated (81, 34 and 134,
respecively, planned at appraisal)
End of project
This Project was processed before the inclusion of output indicators became standard. The vehicle-related
components are the only ones with a clearly defined output, the remaining ones consisting mainly of spare
parts.
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Bus vehicles                                        11.15          10.59            95
Trolley bus vehicles                                6.40            8.38           131
Vehicle rehabilitation for Ashgabat                 3.63            3.63            100
Spare part inventories for Ashgabat                 2.56            2.56           100
Workshop and equipment for Ashgabat                  2.77           2.77            100
Equipment for OIP implementation                    2.00            2.00            100
Incremental operating costs for Ashgabat             1.00           1.00           100
Establishment of APAPO                              0.45            0.45           100
Vehicle rehabilitation and spare parts, other cities  1.64          1.64            100
Technical assistance and training                    1.30           1.30           100
Total Basellne Cost                                32.90           34.32
Physical ContIngendes                               3.87
Price Contingencies                                 1.52
Total Project Costs            38.29           34.32
Total Financing Required             38.29          34.32
Project Costs by Procuremt Arrangements (Appraisal Estmate) (US$ million eguivalent)
1. Works                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    26.80          0.00         5.60         2.39         34.79
(26.80)       (0.00)       (5.60)       (2.39)      (34.79)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          1.20         0.00         1.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)       (0.00)        (1.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.60         1.70         2.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.60)        (1.70)       (2.30)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0-00)        (0-00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00
Total                     26.80         0.00         7.40          4.09        38.29
(26.80)       (0.00)      (7.40)        (4.09)      (38.29)
-23-



Proiect Costs by Procurement Aran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (USS million equivalent)
1 <               m            ffi              0, <........
1. Works                          0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                         18.98           0.00           1.83            0.00          20.81
(18.98)         (0.00)         (1.83)         (0.00)        (20.81)
3. SerAIces                       0.00                          0.25           0.00           0.25
(0.00)           0            (0.25)         (0.00)         (0.25)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00                           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)           0            (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.01           0.00           0.01
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.01)         (0.00)         (0.01)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         18.98           0.00           2.09            0.00          21.07
(18.98)         (0.00)         (2.09)         (0.00)        (21.07)
1'Figures in parenthesis arc the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
i'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Co  ponent (in USS million equivalent
~~~~~~~~~~~~.          . ........ .... --. ..   *......   ..B
Bus vehiclks              12.64      0.00      0.00       10.59      0.00      0.00     83.8    0.0    0.0
Trolley-bus vehicles      7.35       0.00      0.00       8.38       0.00      0.00    114.0   0.0    0.0
Spare parts               5.60       1.19      0.00       1.83       0.00      0.00     32.7    0.0    0.0
-24-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
For the purpose of economic evaluation at appraisal, a without-project scenario was postulated, wherein
the Government would continue with occasional purchases of new, but sub-standard vehicles, through
barter or similar arrangements. The underlying problems of financing urban transport services would not
be resolved, hence transport companies would continue with under-spending for operations, maintenance,
spare parts purchases and vehicle rehabilitation. A hierarchy of with-project options started with the
implementation of a low-cost operations improvement program, then a medium-cale program of vehicle
rehabilitation was added, and ultimately a purchase of new vehicles was added in. The specifications for
new vehicles were meant to improve operational performance, reduce operating and maintenance costs, and
reduce emissions. Each successive with-project option included the previous ones, e.g. the vehicle purchase
program also included operational improvements and vehicle rehabilitation. The benefits included impacts
on operating costs as well as impacts on travelers, mainly savings in waiting and on-vebicle travel time. For
the bus company, an investment of about US$10.3 million (inclusive of US$6.2 million for new vehicles)
was forecast to produce a net present worth of US8.3 million, relative to the without-project option. For the
trolley-bus company, an investment of about US$5.1 million was forecast to produce a net present worth of
US$1.4 million. A discount rate of 12% was used.
A switching value analysis done at appraisal concluded that the most critical variable in the economic
evaluation was the introduction of institutional and cost recovery reforms, followed by a timely
implementation of the Operations Improvement Program. If these were not done, according to the Staff
Appraisal Report, the net present worth of the project would become negative.
As noted in the body of this report, the institutional and financial reforms were not done, and the
Operations Improvements Program was not implemented. The Project as implemented represents a blend of
the without-project scenario and the capital-intensive portion of the with-project scenario. This suggests
that the benefits will be mainly in terms of waiting time, travel time and comfort of passengers, with some
operating cost savings due to high-uality vehicles. Neither of these would be sustained over the longer
term in the absence of a proper organization and financing of operations and maintenance. It follows that in
the aggregate terms, and within the anaiytic framework as et up at appraisal, the Project represents a
net economic loss to the country. This contingent conclusion is reversible in that the institutional reforms
can be undertaken at any time in the future, the sooner the better.
-25-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
3tage of Mret Cyle                        o. .~  Pesn an -pc~t Ne Swceat
(e.g..2   iconomists, I  FM S, etc..................... ........i e e.............
:: .::::ea  :  - mt            Specialty                                   ..N Olt ....
Idendfication/Preparalion
February 1995                5   Financial Specialist (Project
Manager), 2 Social Scientists,
Transport Economist,
Mechanical Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
November 1996                 7   2 Financial Specialists (one
was the deparing Project
Manager), 2 Transport
Specialists, Transport
Economist, Public Transport
Specialist, Lawyer
March 1997                   1   Financial Specialist
May 1997                     4   2 Transport Economists,
Financial Specialist, Mechanical
Engineer
Supervision
September 1997                4   2 Transport Economists,              S              S
Financial Specialist,
Procurement Engineer
December 1997                 2   Transport Economist, Financial       S              S
Specialist
May 1999                      2   Urban Transport Specialist,
Transport Economist
October 1999                  1   Urban Transport Specialist           S              U
June 2000                     3   Transport Economist, Financial       S              U
Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist
ICR
May 2001                     1    Urban Transport Specialist
The performance ratings are only available for the supervision missions. The May 1999 mission was a
re-activation mission and did not carry out normal supervision.
(b) Staff.
-'. Sge '' Projet Cy'cle       0.'  ........ ...g  acual/Las.t-..- stimate
..... ......    ;.....
.. .-.'.' o. Staff.weeks, U:S ('000
identification/Preparation                                              554
Appraisal/Negotiation
SupRvision                                                              297
ICR
Total                                                   ,               851
-26-



Note: The Identification/Preparation line includes also costs for the Appraisal/Negotiations stage, and the
Supervision line also includes costs for the ICR. The current Project System Module does not provide a
finer breakdown, nor does it provide staff weeks spent for each stage or in total.
-27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Subs=antial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Appicable)
Rating
[O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
[O Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
El Physical                              0 H  * SU O    O N  O NA
O] Financial                            0OH  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Institutional Development              Oh   O SU O M  * N  0 NA
O] Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
OL Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
LI Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
LI Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Ol Private sector development            O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Ol Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
-28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satis&ctory, S=Satisfiatory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfictory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
Ol Lending                                        OS10S *OU OHU
O Supervision                                     OHS OS          U  O HU
Eli Overall                                       OHS OS  * U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
L Preparation                                     OHS OS   Ou  01wU
a Government implementation performance           OHS OS  0 U  0 HU
Ea Implementation agency performance              OHS OS  O u  O HU
El Overall                                        OHS  OS  * U   G HU
The "S" rating for Implementation agency performance refers to (mainly) procurement activities of the
Project Management Group. The Operations Support Group was disbanded after the suspension in March
1998, and never re-instituted. The "HU" rating for the Government's implementation performance refers to
all policy and institutional aspects of the project, since the Government retained all the relevant decision
making powers.
-29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Apprabal Report, Turkimenistan Urban Transport Project, Report No. 16176-TM,
Infrastructre, Energy and Environment Division, Country Department m1, Europe and Central Asia
Region, April 28, 1997
2. Borrower's Evaluation Report on Turkmnenistan Urban Transport Project Completion (Loan
4170-TM), prepared by the Project Management Group, Ashgabat Passenger Transport Organization,
Ministry of Motor Transport, August 30, 2001
3. Country Asistance Strategy for Turkmenlstan, Memorandum of the President of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors, Report No. 16547-TM, May 5,
1997
-30-



