Report No. PIC2063
Project Name                Turkmenistan-Urban Transport Project
Region                      Europe and Central Asia
Sector                      Urban Transport
Project ID                  TMPA34083
Borrower
Implementing Agency         Ministry  of Transport
Mr. Victor Ermolaev
Department Head
Ashgabat, Turkmenistan
Tel. (7-363) 47-36-85
Date PID Prepared           April 27, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date    January 7, 1996
Projected Board Date        April 1, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1. Turkmenistan is the fourth smallest of the republics of the
former Soviet Union (FSU) in terms of population and has one of
the lowest social indicators in the region. However, the country
has strong development potential based on an enormous endowment
of oil and gas reserves. The country is self-sufficient in oil
and had become, by 1992, one of the top five gas producers and
exporters in the world. However, it is highly reliant on markets
and pipelines in the FSU for its exports of gas and adverse
economic and competitive conditions since the end of 1992 have
led to large payment arrears for its gas exports, cessation of
its exports to hard currency markets outside the FSU and a
precipitous decline in Government fiscal revenues.     The urban
population accounts for about 44t of Turkmenistan's total
population of 4.3 million. Urban population growth is rapid,
particularly in the capital city Ashgabat, but public investment
to maintain and expand urban infrastructure and services have
lagged behind the rapid growing demand placed upon them. In
particular, the basic urban roads infrastructure is deteriorating
and the public vehicle fleet is in a state of near break-down
with a large proportion of the public transport vehicle fleet in
Ashgabat and other major cities inoperable due to inadequate
generation or allocation of resources for effective maintenance
or replacement.
Objectives
2. The principal project objective is to increase the
efficiency and effectiveness of the transport sector in Ashgabat
and other (maximum two) selected cities by: (a) rationalizing
organizational and oversight arrangements for the provision of
transport services; (b) supporting private sector participation



in selected transport operations; (c) increasing the effective
capacity of the existing bus and trolley capacity; (d)
strengthening the financial position of transport providers; (e)
addressing severe infrastructure bottlenecks to effective,
efficient and safe transport;
Description
3. A proposed Urban Transport Project Loan of US$ 40 million
would help finance the following project components: (a) the
rebuilding of the inventory of spare parts for buses and trolley
buses held by the operating entities; (b) the rehabilitation of
buses; (c) provision for purchase of new buses (sizes and
quantities to be determined during project preparation); (c)
upgrading of maintenance facilities and equipment for bus and
trolley bus garages; (d) redress the backlog of deferred
maintenance on selected segments of the existing roads network
(to be identified during project preparation); (e) traffic
management improvement programs, including intersection
signalization, street markings, traffic islands, pedestrian
crossings, etc.; and (f) technical assistance and training in
operational and financial management and transport planning.
Vehicles, equipment, works and services would be procured under a
combination of international and local competitive bidding.
Financing
4. The proposed World Bank loan of US$40 million would finance
80t of the estimated project cost of US$50 million.    The balance
of the financing requirement would be provided by the Government.
Implementation
5.  The project would be implemented by a specially created
Project Management Group (PMG) in the Cabinet of Ministers. The
PMG would be headed by a group manager supported by subproject
managers, drawn from the existing bus and trolley bus operations
in the city, for each of the two main areas of project activity
viz: (a) bus and trolley bus assets and operations; and (b) roads
maintenance and traffic management programs. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the office of the Deputy Prime
Minister (Finance and Economic Affairs), would provide support to
the PMG in the processing of procurement and disbursement
documents. Technical assistance would be provided in three areas
in support of project implementation: (i) a management systems
adviser to assist in implementing the financial and operational
improvement programs under the project; (ii) a vehicle
engineering advisor to help oversee the bus and workshop-related
project activities; and (c) a roads management advisor to oversee
the planning and implementation of the roads maintenance and
traffic management components. The PMG is designed as an interim
measure until the creation of a unified corporate structure for
the public transport operations. Once such a structure is
established, the PMG would be collapsed into it.
- 2 -



Sustainability
6. The Government has been shifting its transport sector policy
in favor of improved cost recovery, enhanced private sector
participation and rationalized institutional arrangements in the
provision of transport services.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
7. The relevant lessons from projects undertaken in the sector
are: (a) the establishment of a clear, functional organizational
structure with adequate autonomy is a prerequisite for ensuring
operational efficiency and improving performance in the sector;
(b) there is a need to encourage public-private partnership and
competition in the provision and maintenance of urban transport
services; (c) improving cost recovery is central to ensuring
sustainable development of public transport operations; (d) the
project design and procurement methods should not be overly
complex in order to prevent a long implementation period and
delays in procurement; and (e) it is important to have
demonstrated government commitment to a process of international
competitive bidding for vehicle procurement early in the project
preparation cycle.
Poverty Category
8. The project would put particular emphasis on targeting
improvements of services and any subsidies to the poorer segments
of urban populations with a greater reliance on mass public
transport.
Environmental Aspects
9. No adverse impact is foreseen since most of the project
would involve the rehabilitation of existing facilities and
purchase of new equipment/vehicles with improved environmental or
safety features. The project would have significant
environmental benefits by improving the condition of buses and
the working environment in bus and trolley bus garages.
Improvements to urban roads would enhance transport operations,
reduce vehicle wear and tear, and improve pedestrian safety.
Program Objective Categories
10. The principal program objective categories are: (i) Private
Sector Development. The project would promote the privatization
of selected transport activities; (ii) Structural and Sectoral
Adjustments. The proposed project would support the creation of
an effective framework for improvements in the efficiency of
transport operation and reductions in the sector's subsidy
requirements; (iii) Public Sector Management. Institutional
arrangements are proposed to improve the efficiency of public
sector organizations in the delivery of transport services; (ii)
Poverty Reduction. Improvements in the delivery of public
transport system and provision of road network in outlying areas
-3 -



would provide better access to transport services to the
relatively poorer segment of the city population.
Contact Point:        Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Task Manager:
Yusupha B. Crookes, EC3IV
(202) 473-3792 (tel)
(202) 477-3285 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 4 -



