                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR000007




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             ( IDA-33060 UK-23656 )




                                     ON A

                           CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                SDR 74.7 MILLION

                       (US$103.90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                       SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                   FOR THE

                      SECOND RURAL TRANSPORT PROJECT

                                  June 27, 2007




Transport, Energy and Mining Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   ( Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2007)
                          Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
                               VND 1.00 = US$ 0.000062
                                 US$ 1.00 = VND 16,042


                                       Fiscal Year
                             January 1 - December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

             CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
             CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
            DFID      United Kingdom Department of International Development
             DIR      Detailed Implementation Report
             DPL      Department of Personnel and Labor
             DST      Department of Science and Technology
            EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
              FM      Financial Management
              ICR     Implementation Completion Report
              ISR     Implementation Status Report
              KPI     Key Performance Indicators
             JBIC     Japan Bank of International Cooperation
             MOT      Ministry of Transport
             NCB      National Competitive Bidding
             NPV      Net Present Value
             PAH      Project Affected Households
             PDO      Project Development Objective
           PDOT       Provincial Department of Transport
         PMU 18       Project Management Unit 18
          PPMUs       Provincial Project Management Unit
             RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
             RT1      First Rural Transport Project
           RRSR       Rural Road Surfacing Research
             RT2      Second Rural Transport Project
         RRGAP        Rural Road Gravel Assessment Programme
             RT3      Third Rural Transport Project
             RTS      Rural Transport Strategy
       RTU-PID        Rural Transport Unit in the Planning and Investment Department
             SDR      Special Drawing Right
       SEACAP         South East Asia Community Access Programme
             SOE      State Owned Enterprise
             TDSI     Transport Development Strategy Institute
          VHLSS       Vietnam Household Living Standards Survey
      VRA-LTU         Vietnam Roads Administration - Local Transport Unit
              WB      World Bank
(1, 2, 3, 4) YWP      (1st , 2nd , 3rd , 4th ) Year Work Plan

          Vice President: Mr. James W. Adams, EAP

Country Director (Acting): Mr. Laurent Msellati, EACVF

        Sector Manager: Ms. Junhui Wu, EASTE

   Project Team Leader: Ms. Phuong Thi Minh Tran, EASTE
       ICR Team Leader: Mr. Simon Ellis, EASTE

                                                    Vietnam
                                Second Rural Transport Project




                                                CONTENTS


Data Sheet

 A. Basic Information..................................................................................................... i
 B. Key Dates................................................................................................................. i
 C. Ratings Summary..................................................................................................... i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................ ii
 E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................ ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis................................................................................... ii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ............................................................... vii
 H. Restructuring (if any)............................................................................................ vii
 I. Disbursement Profile.............................................................................................. vii

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes..........................................................................................9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................................13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................15
 6. Lessons Learned .....................................................................................................16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing........................................................................19
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ...............................................................................20
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis...............................................................29
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..........33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.........................................................................35
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................37
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...................38
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.....................40
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................41
 Annex 10. Surfacing Trials.........................................................................................43
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Second Rural Transport
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P059864                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-33060,UK-23656
ICR Date:               05/08/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       THE SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF
                                                                       VIETNAM
Original Total
                        SDR 74.7M               Disbursed Amount:      SDR 73.8M
Commitment:
Parallel Bi-lateral
financing
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Projects Management Unit 18 (PMU 18 )
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
UK Department for International Development (DFID)


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/16/1998    Effectiveness:         05/24/2000        05/24/2000
Appraisal:             05/15/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/16/1999    Mid-term Review:                         05/02/2002
                                     Closing:               06/30/2006        06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                              96                  96
Sub-national government administration                           4                   4


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                               Primary           Primary
Other financial and private sector development                Secondary          Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                    Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         Laurent Msellati                  Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:           Junhui Wu                         Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:      Phuong Thi Minh Tran              Wael Zakout
ICR Team Leader:          Simon David Ellis
ICR Primary Author:       Simon Lucas



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project was to increase the flow of goods and services
in rural Vietnam by: (i) improving the access of rural communities in the project
provinces to markets, off-farm economic opportunities, and social services; (ii)
developing central, provincial and local capacity to improve and sustain the level of
service of the rural transport network; and (iii) fostering the development of small-scale
private contractors.



                                              ii

The Key Performance Indicators used to assess progress on outcomes are set out below.
Further comments on the M&E design are given in section 2.3.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Key Performance Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target         Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator      Baseline Value          Values (from                             Achieved at
                                            approval         Revised Target      Completion or
                                          documents)              Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Reduction in the number of days communities are cut off from District
                Centers
Value                                                                         30% reduction in the
quantitative or N/A                   No Target Set                           number of days cut-
Qualitative)                                                                  off.
Date achieved 05/15/1999              06/30/2006                              1/21/2005

Comments        Data accurately reported in only 13 Provinces for the period 2002-2004.

(incl. %       No numerical target set against which to judge performance.

achievement)   Indicator judged as achieved as 82% of RT2 roads were passable all year.

Indicator 2 :   Increase in traffic volume and change in traffic
                                                                              Total traffic volume
                                                                              rose by 70%.
                                                                              Traffic composition

                                      Increase in traffic                     increases were:
Value                                                                         Four wheel motor
quantitative or N/A                   along rehabilitated                     vehicles (5%);
Qualitative)                          roads (freight and
                                      passengers)                             Two wheel motor
                                                                              vehicles (38%);
                                                                              Non ­ motorised
                                                                              vehicles (41%); and
                                                                              Pedestrians (16%).
Date achieved 05/15/1999              06/30/2006                              1/21/2005
                Data based on case studies (15 sites) and trials (75 sites) show significant

Comments        increases in traffic volumes on RT2 roads between 2002 and 2005.

(incl. %        Data was not systematically collected for all RT2 road links.

achievement)    Indicator judged as achieved but no numerical target set against which to assess
                level of achievement.


Indicator 3 :   Decrease in time needed to get to district centers in the dry and rainy
                seasons

Value                                 Travel times reduced                    Decrease in time to

quantitative or         N/A           along all rehabilitated                 district centres:

Qualitative)                          roads.                                  20% in dry season;
                                                                              12% in wet season.
Date achieved 05/15/1999              06/30/2006                              1/21/2005
Comments        Data from 10 Provinces, between 2002 and 2004.


                                                 iii

                                        Original Target         Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator     Baseline Value          Values (from                             Achieved at
                                            approval        Revised Target      Completion or
                                          documents)             Values          Target Years
(incl. %       Indicator judged as achieved but no numerical target set against which to assess
achievement)   level of achievement.
Indicator 4 :  Increase in visits to health clinics and hospitals in the project areas
                                                                             15.2% increase in
                                                                             visits to provincial

Value                                Increase in visits to                   hospitals;

quantitative or         N/A          health clinics and                      35.8% increase in

Qualitative)                         hospitals in the                        visits to district
                                     project                                 hospitals; and
                                                                             40.5% increase in
                                                                             commune clinics.
Date achieved 05/15/1999             06/30/2006                              1/21/2005
               27 Province data between 2002 and 2004.
Comments       Data does not support direct attribution of RT2 road rehabilitation to increase in
(incl. %       government services as too many external variables affect increases. In addition
achievement)   no numeric target was set. As such no assessment of level of achievement is
               possible.

Indicator 5 :  Increase in number of people who have off-farm jobs
                                     Create more labor-                      RT2 created new
Value                                based jobs for people                   labor based jobs in
quantitative or         N/A          living along the                        24.3% of surveyed;
Qualitative)                         rehabilitated                           and off-farm jobs
                                     roads/bridges.                          increased by 13.3%.
Date achieved 05/15/1999             06/30/2006                              1/21/2005
               Results based on limited surveys of 4 RT2 roads in 2 provinces. 180 households

Comments       in total were surveyed.

(incl. %       RT2 M&E data and case studies did not support direct attribution of RT2 road

achievement)   rehabilitation to increases in job creation. As such no assessment of level of
               achievement is possible.

Indicator 6 :  Increase in high school attendance
                                                                            3.4% increase in
Value                                5% increase in high                    school attendance of
quantitative or         N/A                                                 11-14 years olds; and
Qualitative)                         school attendance.                     5.2% increase for
                                                                            15 -18 years olds.
Date achieved 05/15/1999             06/30/2006                             1/21/2005
               30 Province data. RT2 M&E data and case studies did not support direct
Comments       attribution of RT2 road rehabilitation to increases in government services.
(incl. %       Consequently although the indicator is largely met only indirect and partial
achievement)   attribution of these increases can be made to RT2 investments.




                                                iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                             approval         Target Completion or Target
                                           documents)         Values             Years
               Enhanced capacity of the MOT to support delivery of rural transport
               services:
Indicator 1 :  1. MOT adopts the Rural Transport Strategy;
               2. MOT establishes an RTU; and
               3. Streamlined procedures in Ministry/PMU 18 for implementation.

               1. No RTS                                                1. Adopted (see note);
Value                                  1. Full adoption                 2. 2 out 3 RTUs
(quantitative  2. RTUs exist but weak  2. RTU established               effective; and
or Qualitative)3. 1st Year 27.5 weeks
               processing              3. Streamlined                   3. 4th Year ­13 weeks
                                                                        processing.
Date achieved 05/15/2000               06/30/2006                       07/31/2005

               1. Achieved - but delayed. The original RTS was never adopted by MOT.

Comments       However many recommendations from it were implemented in RT2 provinces.

(incl. %       The strategy, revised by TDSI-RTU, was approved by MOT in January 2007;

achievement)   2. 67% achieved - two of three RTUs (TDSI, VRA) effectively responsible for
               rural transport; and
               3. 80% achieved - PMU 18 contract processing time reduced by 50%.

               Enhanced Capacity of the PDOTs and Districts to:

Indicator 2 :  1. Apply guidelines for rural road rehabilitation and maintenance
               2. Implement plan for monitoring and evaluation
               3. Respond to complaints
                                       1. Guidelines fully

Value          1. No guidelines        implemented                      1. 92% achieved

(quantitative  2. Weak M&E             2. PDOTs use M&E                 (see note)

or Qualitative)3. No response          effectively                      2. M&E project based
               mechanism               3. User feedback                 3. No feedback system

Date achieved 05/15/1999               06/30/2006                       07/31/2005


Comments       1. 37 of 40 (92%) provinces report use of guidelines and increased awareness of

(incl. %       maintenance issues , 73% of communes report improved implementation;

achievement)   2. Not achieved - M&E system is flawed and project-driven;
               3. Not achieved - Most provinces did not respond to this question.

               Program for rural road maintenance implemented
               1. Annual maintenance plans and resources
Indicator 3 :  2. Designs contain adequate plans for maintenance
               3. Communes satisfied with maintenance arrangements
               4. 90% of roads rehabilitated are in good condition
Value          1. No maintenance       1. Plans prepared                1. All communes have
(quantitative  plans                   and funded                       maintenance plans and



                                               v

or Qualitative)                                                         73% of RT2 communes
                                                                        report improved
                                                                        maintenance;
               2. No baseline            2. Designs contain             2. All RT2 roads have
                                         adequate plans for             maintenance plans;
                                         maintenance
               3. Communes unaware 3. Communes                          3. 73% satisfaction; and
                                         satisfied with
                                         maintenance
               4. No baseline            4. 90% good                    4. 82% in good
                                         condition                      condition.
Date achieved 05/15/1999                 06/30/2006                     07/31/2005

               1. 50% - Maintenance plans exist; funding is reported as having increased but not

Comments       to the levels required to sustain the network;

(incl. %       2. Not achieved - RT2 maintenance agreements exist but are not honored;

achievement)   3. 73% of communes satisfied with maintenance training and report improved
               maintenance management as a result; and
               4. 82% achieved, based on RT2 condition survey data.

               Program for core rural road network rehabilitation implemented:
Indicator 4 :  1. Increase in number of communes that do have basic access
               2. Increase in rural roads that are passable all year

Value          1. Percentage Increase                                   1. 28% increase

(quantitative  2. Percentage Increase    No targets set                 2. 21% increase

or Qualitative)of network accessible
               year round.
Date achieved 05/15/1999                 06/30/2006                     1/21/2005
               Detailed data received from 24 Provinces between 2002 and 2004 for both cases.

Comments       Over 1,000 unconnected communes (over 80%) in the project provinces received

(incl. %       road improvements. Approximately 180 communes remain unconnected.

achievement)   Absolute numbers are not available as some communes were divided during the
               project and not all the anticipated road links were completed.




                                                vi

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


       Date ISR        Development        Implementation            Actual
No.    Archived          Objective          Performance          Disbursements
                           DO                     IP             (USD millions)
  1    03/01/2000       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  0.00
  2    03/09/2000       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  0.00
  3    06/16/2000       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  0.00
  4    12/12/2000       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  4.00
  5    06/27/2001       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  4.58
  6    12/14/2001       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                14.77
  7    06/12/2002       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                28.60
  8    12/17/2002       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                44.17
  9    06/30/2003       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                59.92
  10   12/31/2003       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                71.47
  11   02/09/2004       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                71.47
  12   08/13/2004       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                84.11
  13   05/14/2005       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                95.94
  14   06/06/2006       Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory        120.60



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector context
The project focused on two key aspects of the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) in place in 1998: (i) placing emphasis on poverty alleviation efforts that promote
income opportunities; and (ii) promoting capacity enhancements and increased
responsibilities that enable greater devolvement to lower levels of government. It was
consistent with the Bank's January 1999 Transport Sector Review, Vietnam: Moving
Forward - Achievements and Challenges in the Transport Sector, and the Bank's 1998
Vietnam Rural Development Strategy, Vietnam Advancing Rural Development - From
Vision to Action. Both documents recognized the key role that rural roads were playing in
Vietnam's rural poverty reduction programs.

The condition of Vietnam's rural road network at the time of appraisal was poor, prone to
disruptions in connectivity (especially during the wet season) and generating high
transport costs for the poor. The national network consisted of approximately 36,000 km
of District roads and 47,000 km of Commune roads, only 15 percent of which were in
maintainable condition. With minimal central government funding available, annual
budget allocations at the District and Commune level were constrained, with 40 percent
of resources being allocated from Commune level budgets.

Alongside significant investment requirements the transport sector review recognized two
underlying weaknesses in the sector: (i) preventive maintenance of rural roads was
inadequate, with limited resources being invested into ad-hoc repairs; and (ii) unskilled
and understaffed local road administrations lacked sufficient capacity to properly manage
and maintain roads. These became the focus of the project building on lessons learned
from implementation of Vietnam's first Rural Transport Project (RT1, Cr. 2929-VN).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Performance
Indicators (KPI)

The development objective of the project was to increase the flow of goods and services
in rural Vietnam by: (i) improving the access of rural communities in the project
provinces to markets, off-farm economic opportunities, and social services; (ii)
developing central, provincial and local capacity to improve and sustain the level of
service of the rural transport network; and (iii) fostering the development of small-scale
private contractors.

The Key Performance Indicators at the outcome level at appraisal were:

1. Reduction in the number of days communities are cut off from District Centers;
2. Increase in traffic volume and change in traffic composition;
3. Decrease in the time needed to get to the District Centre in the dry and rainy seasons;
4. Increase in visits to health clinics and hospitals in the project areas;


                                              1

5. Increases in the number of off-farm jobs; and
6. Increase in school attendance1.

The key performance indicators at the intermediate outcome level for each component of
the project are detailed in Section F of the data sheet along with a discussion of their
appropriateness in Section 2.3.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project's direct beneficiaries are rural road users and indirectly rural inhabitants in
the project area. The benefits of extending basic road access to residents primarily accrue
through enhanced economic and social opportunities (such as access to markets, health
services, education and information), better year-round connectivity, and lower transport
costs. With rural inhabitants relying mostly on motorcycles, bicycles and non-motorized
transport modes, the benefits of basic road access were expected to be widely distributed.
Furthermore, total benefits can be expected to increase proportionally with traffic growth.

The project also sought to benefit small-scale private contractors who were given
preferential access to contract opportunities in the project. In turn the road rehabilitation
contracts were also expected to generate job opportunities for local residents.

1.5 Original Components ($ as approved, $ actual)2

The Second Rural Transport Project (RT2) had two funding channels. Components 1, 3
and 5 were funded through the IDA credit and DFID Trust Fund. Components 2 and 4,
were financed directly by DFID. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) treats these 5
components as one project regardless of funding source. For consistency this completion
report covers all these components as one integrated project.

Component 1. Institutional Development for PMU 18 and PDOTs ($9.4 M, $8.3 M)
To provide institutional development to PMU 18 and PPMUs to implement the project.
This included technical assistance and training in planning, project and financial
management, safeguards monitoring and rural road rehabilitation.

Component 2. Institutional Development to Ministry of Transport ($2.6 M, $2.6 M)
To strengthen the capacity of MOT to formulate and implement rural transport policies,
and provide the strategic direction of the sub-sector.




1Additional data was also collected on access to other government services. Between 2002 and 2004 23 Provinces
reported an 8.3% increase in access to clean water. 35 provinces reported a 6.8% increase in electricity and a
6.1% increase in telephone use.
2Component funding values include both contingencies and DFID bilateral support.



                                                          2

Component 3. Rehabilitation of District and Commune Roads ($129.2 M, $139.4 M)
To provide basic road access at least cost to all communes in the project provinces and
rehabilitate and upgrade other district and commune roads.

Component 4. Rural Road Maintenance ($3.5 M, $5.1 M)
Develop capacity in districts and communes to plan and implement rural road
maintenance on a sustainable basis.

Component 5. Training of Domestic Contractors ($0.6 M, $0.6 M)
Train private contractors, state-owned enterprises, and PDOT and District staff in
contract management and technical skills.

1.6 Revised Components

None.

1.7 Other significant changes

The Credit was first amended in September 2000 to include three additional provinces
(Binh Dinh, Phu Yen and Quang Ngai) in order to allow flood damaged infrastructure to
be rehabilitated. Second, in July 2004, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and
the DFID Trust Fund Agreement were amended to accommodate additional DFID
support of GBP 6 million (US$10 M) and the pooling of IDA and DFID funds. DFID
also allocated an additional GBP 1 million (US$1.68 M) to component 4 under its
bilaterally funded contract. The DCA and Trust Fund Agreement were also amended to
allow funding for the preparation of the Third Rural Transport Project (RT3) and add the
new province of Dac Nong. In June 2006 the Credit and Trust Fund Agreement were
amended a third time to increase the financing percentage for civil works to 95 percent to
fully utilize all proceeds remaining under the Credit and Grant before project closure.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project quality at entry was moderately satisfactory. The project responded to
Government's rural transport priorities and built on the lessons of RT1 to produce a
simple design that avoided implementation difficulties. However on review several areas
were identified where project preparation could have been improved. For the civil works
components these are:

    i)    The cost limitations specified by the project led to inappropriately low
          standards;
    ii)   The simplified design approach underestimated the number of bridges and
          structures required, leading to inaccurate cost estimates; and




                                              3

     iii)  The management and reporting systems required to manage a highly dispersed
           project in 40 Provinces were inadequate.

During implementation two further areas of design weakness became apparent, namely;

     iv)   The risks in Procurement were underestimated and led to opportunities for
           collusion; and
     v)    The project financial management (FM) system operated in parallel to the PMU
           18 FM systems, increasing the risks of financial mismanagement.

It is not possible, ex-post, to judge whether sufficient information was available to the
design team to have foreseen and addressed these implementation issues/risks. However
it is clear that subsequent operations need to ensure that fiduciary aspects are well
integrated into future project designs, based on adequate analysis of the overall fiduciary
environment.

In addition the project components to address decentralization, institutional development
and maintenance also had weaknesses. In particular:

     i)    The project lacked mechanisms and incentives to encourage decentralization;
     ii)   Institutional development was hampered by the centralized and weak Rural
           Transport Unit in the Planning and Investment Department (RTU-PID);
     iii)  The maintenance approach focused only on RT2 road links; and
     iv)   The key performance indicators identified for the project were poorly defined.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

Implementation progress was generally satisfactory. The implementing agency for civil
works, PMU 18, had experience of implementing RT1, and many of the provinces were
familiar with World Bank procedures. The relatively small contract values were
appropriate for the capacity of the provinces and private sector contractors bidding for
work. Consequently implementation progress for the civil works components was
consistently better than for other World Bank projects in Vietnam. However supervision
missions and in particular the 2002 mid-term review brought a number of issues to
management attention, as detailed below.

(i)      The project standards and specifications imposed cost limits and limited the range
         of technical standards that could be applied. In some cases this resulted in
         inadequate designs being implemented. Examples include the use of unlined
         drains in steep gradient areas, lack of bituminous sealing in village areas, and
         inadequate pavement designs for roads with significant traffic volumes and heavy
         axle loads. To address these issues, the project agreed to support research into the
         performance of the MOT and RT2 standards. This provided evidence that the
         gravel surface specified in RT2 was not always sustainable. This research has



                                               4

       now been used to develop MOT specifications for future government and donor
       rural road investments, including RT3.
(ii)   The RT2 feasibility studies underestimated the number of structures required to
       ensure all year access to communes, especially in the Mekong Delta. IDA agreed
       to finance the additional bridges, as the Mekong had the highest density of
       unconnected communes in Vietnam. The overall effect of this decision was to
       reduce the total number roads constructed and therefore of communes fully
       connected under the project.
(iii)  Slow procurement and widespread irregularities in the bidding process were also
       uncovered during supervision. As a consequence the project monitoring system
       was substantially improved as a management tool, including the development of a
       collusion warning system (see Section 2.4 and Annex 2 for details). This was used
       to:

       · Identify bottlenecks in procurement, leading to a reduction in procurement
           time from 27.5 weeks to 13 weeks; and
       · Institute a number of changes to the procurement process and the Operations
           Manual to increase competition and transparency.

The project aimed to increase the levels of decentralization during implementation.
However, only three additional provinces were decentralized during the life of the project.
Further decentralization was hampered by:

       · Capacity assessments that showed the need to develop provincial capacity,
           which the project did not have the resources to provide;
       · Slow disbursement of funds in decentralized provinces caused by PMU 18
           exercising an oversight function; and
       · A reluctance on the part of MOT and PMU 18 to increase the levels of
           decentralized authority for contract award.

The mid-term review also noted that the project approach to maintenance was ineffective.
RT2 required provincial authorities to sign maintenance agreements for RT2 road links.
On its own, this was not an effective solution to the rural road maintenance problem.
Consequently the approach was changed to develop the understanding of the need for
planned maintenance, and develop the systems to budget and implement maintenance
effectively for the rural road network as a whole.

Project monitoring noted slow progress on the institutional support and capacity
development components. A review attributed much of the delay to systemic weaknesses
in the RTU-PID of MOT. As a result the RT2 technical assistance was restructured to
make RT2 support more consistent with the structure of MOT. This entailed supporting
the roles of the three MOT RTUs and assisting different MOT departments to fulfill their
mandates with respect to rural transport. See Section 3.5(b) for further details.

The project initially delivered training centrally. Training feedback noted that this
approach did not allow training to respond to differing provincial demands. As a result



                                              5

the training strategy was revised and five regionally based training `resource centers'
were established in MOT training institutions to deliver demand led training packages,
see Annex 2, Component 4. This approach was more effective at raising awareness of
rural road maintenance issues by delivering training directly to RT2 provinces, in
practically orientated training sessions.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As noted in Section 2.1, some of the key performance indicators and the means of data
collection were poorly defined. The PAD is also inconsistent in its definition of project
objectives and components and particularly weak in specifying numeric performance
targets. This has hampered the evaluation of the project.

The key performance indicators (KPI) at the outcome level were defined by a research
project evaluating the impacts of RT1 investments. RT2 adopted the same indicators to
enable a consistent set of data for RT1 and RT2 investments to be built up. After
implementation began the results of this research project concluded that no attribution
could be made between rural road investments and three of the RT2 KPIs, namely:
increases in visits to health clinics and schools and increases in off-farm employment
opportunities. Attribution was impossible due to the overwhelming significance of
exogenous factors. The project therefore focused on traffic data to monitor the KPIs most
directly attributable to the RT2 investments, i.e. increase in basic access rates, reduction
in travel times and changes in traffic composition.

Independent research on the impacts of rural road investments was available for Vietnam
over the period of the project. This includes analysis of areas where RT2 roads were
constructed. These studies use broader economic analysis to quantify the contribution of
rural transport investments to poverty reduction, primarily through greater access to
markets. These studies show similar returns to those calculated for RT2.

In retrospect once the RT1 research work had proved inconclusive the KPIs should have
been revised and efforts focused on quantifying directly attributable benefits, i.e. those
that can be derived from traffic counts and user surveys. This would have helped
demonstrate the utility of an effective M&E system and avoid it being regarded as
theoretical and project driven.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement
The main procurement challenge under RT2 was the large number of small-value
contracts procured in 40 provinces. By the Credit closing date, 2090 civil works contracts
had been procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and Small-
Works (Shopping) methods. These were implemented in rural areas throughout the
country. The majority of the contractors were small, private enterprises with little
experience in competitive bidding in general and World Bank procurement procedures in
particular.



                                              6

Procurement reviews identified widespread irregularities in procurement in 15 project
provinces. Indications of collusion were found in numerous contracts subject to both
Bank prior-review and post-review. The reviews suggested that officials were artificially
restricting the sale of bidding documents to facilitate collusive behavior. The World Bank
pursued one such case in Lai Chau province, but insufficient evidence was found to prove
wrong doing. To mitigate collusive practices, PMU 18 instituted procedures and
indicators to spot collusion and increase transparency. When collusion was identified an
investigation would take place and in many cases contractors were debarred (90 firms
were debarred under RT2).

The task team also worked with PMU 18 to update the Project's Operations Manual to
introduce measures to increase competition and transparency in the procurement process.
Training was also provided to assist provincial authorities and bidding contractors meet
acceptable procurement standards.

PMU 18 was the subject of a corruption scandal that broke in February 2006. As a result
a Detailed Implementation Review (DIR) of the project was conducted which aimed to
address concerns that funds had been diverted from RT2 and make recommendations on
future program design to reduce fiduciary risks. The DIR report showed similar patterns
of collusive behavior to those noted above3.

Financial Management
While financial management (FM) aspects were generally in compliance with Bank
procedures, a number of problems became apparent towards the end of the project. The
areas identified for improvement include tighter internal controls, better observance of
deadlines for FM and audit reports, stricter adherence to the FM manual, and reducing the
layers of approval required to sign off payments.

In particular it became apparent that PMU 18 was using three different, non-integrated,
accounting applications. This required transactions to be re-entered compromising the
integrity of financial information. The Bank worked with PMU 18 on these issues. The
findings also highlighted the need for the Bank to adopt a consistent approach on FM
implementation across the Ministry, preferably using a common system for all projects
implemented by MOT.

Environment
Environmental issues were rated as category B at project appraisal. The limited negative
impacts from poor drainage and construction were identified and mitigation measures
enforced by PPMUs under the guidance of PMU 18. The use of independent monitoring
consultants provided additional reinforcement of the need to address environmental
concerns. This remained necessary throughout project implementation, as many PPMUs
did not have an appreciation of their obligation to rectify problems, or the skills necessary
to assess impacts and design appropriate mitigation measures.



3This ICR report is not based on the findings of the DIR report.



                                                          7

Social Safeguards
Land acquisition had only marginal impacts on individual households. While no project-
affected households (PAH) required relocation, 24,117 PAH received compensation for
permanent or temporary loss of land. About 18,300 Ha of land were permanently or
temporarily affected by the project. Approximately US$4.75 million was spent on
compensation under the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The RAP implementation
results in the first year were moderately unsatisfactory in some project provinces. This
was due to the incorrect perception that compensation for small-scale land acquisitions
would not be required or should be treated as `local contributions'. Improvements in RAP
implementation in subsequent years resulted from greater understanding by the
implementing agencies and more frequent Bank supervision.

Policy frameworks and Ethnic Minority Development Plans were developed to ensure
ethnic minorities were appropriately compensated for their lost land/assets, as well as
ensuring the project's benefits were distributed in a culturally appropriate manner. During
implementation it was found that the upgraded rural roads did not culturally affect the
ethnic minorities' lifestyle or traditions. Upgraded roads did however ease transportation
between communities and contributed to local economic development. Ethnic minority
populations also benefited from the paid labor opportunities brought about by the project.

An additional issue not covered during appraisal was the increased traffic hazard created
by the road improvements. In part this was addressed by work to improve road safety
standards, but in the future, road safety education should also be considered as part of
WB rural transport programs and included in updates to the commune rural road
handbook.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

In an effort to improve sustainability all Provinces were required to sign maintenance
agreements for RT2 road links. In the majority of cases, these agreements have not been
effective in guaranteeing on-going maintenance funding. However around 50 percent of
RT2 roads have been sealed and upgraded by Provinces using their own funds. This has
reduced the immediate maintenance burden and increased road link life-span, but is not a
substitute for planned maintenance.

Sector wide progress on fostering a maintenance culture has been substantial, see Annex
2 Component 4. It is this network wide progress that provides support for the view that
the sustainability of rural road investments were improved over the life of RT2.
Consequently although more remains to be done, especially on funding, there has been
substantial progress on maintenance/sustainability issues in RT2. This progress will be
built on in RT3 to mainstream maintenance systems and develop realistic maintenance
budgets.




                                               8

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives remain highly relevant to the development priorities of Vietnam.
The goal of universal rural access remains a key objective of the recently updated SEDP
(2006­2010) and MOT's five year plan to which the World Bank Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) and transport strategies are aligned. These documents also recognize the
need for continued sectoral reforms aimed at modernizing road maintenance and
management, justifying RT2's focus on these areas.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Improved access of rural communities to markets, off-farm economic opportunities,
and social services, (Satisfactory).

The primary project objective of improving access in the rural areas of Vietnam was
achieved. The project constructed 1820 road links (with a total length of 7599 km) and
1029 bridges (with a total length of 26,144 m), see Annex 2 Component 1; these works
improved mobility for over 16 million people in the project areas. The project directly
improved all year access to over 1000 communes and around six million people, one
million of whom were poor4. The economic returns to these investments were satisfactory.
By generating 70 percent increases in traffic, and 12 percent reductions in travel times on
improved road links, RT2 generated an average EIRR of 31 percent and NPV of 5.5, see
Annex 3.

The poverty reduction impacts of RT2 investments can be assessed using the findings of
independent research projects on rural road impacts in Vietnam. Empirical analysis (Fan,
2004) implies that RT2 investments lifted approximately 210,000 people out of poverty,
whilst other studies by Leisher 2003, Phin, 2004 and Aksoy 2007 demonstrate the
fundamental facilitating role that rural roads play in providing access to local government,
health and education and in maximizing the returns from agricultural policy reform.
However, as discussed in Section 2.3, the poor design of the RT2 evaluation system
makes it impossible to attribute these sector wide benefits directly to individual RT2 road
investments (Van De Walle, 2002).

The project did not completely fulfill its primary objective of providing all weather
access to all communes in project provinces. This was for two reasons. Firstly, more
bridges were constructed than anticipated, reducing the funds available for road
construction so that 76 percent of the forecast road length was constructed. Secondly,
over the project period the total number of communes increased due to reclassification
and splitting of communes in participating provinces. These two factors left




4Source PMU 18 completion report and project monitoring system data.




                                                      9

approximately 180 communes without full four-wheel vehicle, all weather access, to
district centers at the end of the project.

Despite these shortcomings the investment component is rated as satisfactory.
RT2 data indicates that the provision of improved infrastructure stimulated increased
traffic flows that generated rates of return above those forecast in the PAD5. These
benefits were made available to at least 80 percent of the communes6 originally
anticipated and lesser but still significant impacts were extended to a wider number of
beneficiaries through the provision of an increased number of bridges.

Developing central, provincial and local capacity to improve and sustain the level of
service of the rural transport network, (Moderately Satisfactory).

The project provided training and technical assistance to all levels of government
involved in rural transport. Field visits, formal class-room sessions, on-the-job training,
and a series of workshops helped to instill a maintenance culture and build the technical
expertise of 14,000 transport staff. These activities have increased maintenance
awareness and introduced maintenance guidelines to all Provinces in Vietnam. Ninety
two percent of provincial transport staff are now aware of the maintenance issues and are
using the RT2 maintenance guidelines. Seventy three percent of communes report
increased capacity to maintain their roads. In addition the rural management system
(RoadNAM) has been adopted by the Vietnam Road Administration (VRA) centrally and
capacity to implement it has been developed in 16 Provinces.

RT2 also developed capacity to undertake policy and impact analysis and research into
rural road standards and surfaces. This process has led to increased awareness and
capacity amongst provincial transport authorities of the need to make economically
justified `whole life cost' decisions in the road prioritization and specification process.

The assessment of the capacity development consultants is that satisfactory progress was
made in raising awareness and developing the capacity and systems to sustain the rural
transport network. Progress was moderately unsatisfactory in ensuring maintenance
funding and implementation of maintenance plans. The implementation completion
assessment is that many but not all of the project capacity building and institutional
development objectives were met, meriting a rating of moderately satisfactory.

Fostering small-scale private contractor involvement, (Highly Satisfactory).

The emergence of a small-scale domestic contracting industry is apparent in the increased
level of private sector participation over the course of the project. While the first year
program attracted private sector bidding on approximately 35 percent of the contract
packages, the fourth year program witnessed 100 percent of contracts being awarded to
private contractors. This impact was achieved by two means. Firstly the project ensured a



5The seven sample roads used for the economic forecast of RT2 in the PAD had an average IRR of 22.4%.
6Original estimates of the number of communes to be connected were around 1,200. Approximately 180, or roughly
20%, did not have all weather access at the end of the project.



                                                           10

level playing field for Private Sector Contractors. Secondly assistance was provided
through contractor training courses focused on financial management, technical skills,
contract bidding and contract management. Winning contractors also participated in
contract administration and payment procedure training. These activities contributed
significantly to developing the small and medium private contracting market in Vietnam
justifying a highly satisfactory rating for this component.

3.3 Efficiency

A conventional ex-post economic analysis has been undertaken at the network level. The
input costs relate to construction and maintenance activities and the benefits stem from
savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time. An analysis was conducted for each
region of the project and for the entire project. The results indicate that the investments
were economically viable for all regions, with EIRR ranging from 46.9 percent in the
Northern Highlands area to 10.1 percent in the central coastal region. The overall EIRR
for the project was 31 percent.

Costs were similar across regions, except for the Mekong Delta where both road
construction and bridge costs were significantly higher than in other regions. Although
four-wheel motorized traffic levels were low across the project roads, there were very
high levels of motorcycle and bicycle movements which generated substantial road user
benefits.

It is estimated that 50 percent of the provinces chose to pave their RT2 roads using their
own, additional funds. The analysis, conducted to determine whether the roads would still
be economically viable, found that the roads remain viable and, although the cost
effectiveness of these interventions (as measured by NPV/C) is slightly lower than for the
gravel roads, the difference is relatively small (5.9 vs. 5.4). This suggests that the
provinces were being entirely rational in their decision to pave the roads, particularly
given weak capacity to implement maintenance activities.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The project achieved its primary development objective of increasing the flow of people,
goods and services in rural Vietnam, and achieved an average EIRR of 31 percent. These
benefits were extended directly to at least 80 percent of the expected number of
communes receiving basic access roads. Lesser, but significant benefits were also
extended to a larger number of beneficiaries though the provision of an increased number
of bridges.

RT2 had quality at entry and implementation problems. Procurement performance and
the design of the evaluation system were considered to be marginal. However, the project
was pro-active in managing these issues. Although not entirely successful, collusion
problems were addressed directly and alternative methods of collecting impact data were
identified.


                                               11

In summary RT2 achieved the majority of the development outcomes anticipated. It
remains highly relevant to the government's rural transport and development priorities. It
did suffer from implementation problems, but these were identified and pro-actively
addressed. As such an overall rating of satisfactory is justified.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The proven, positive poverty impacts are shown in Section 3.2 and Annex 3. These
indicate that RT2 had a substantial positive impact on the incomes of the beneficiary
communities, one million of whom were poor. The distribution of benefits within these
communities was addressed by studies linked to RT2, see Annex 5. These indicate that
RT2 benefits were captured by the relatively better off - but still poor, Phin (2004). This
is explained by the fact that richer households have more access to productive assets and
market opportunities. For example qualitative research conducted on RT2 roads in 2004
compared two communes of differing income levels, see Figure 1. The perception of
benefits is higher in the richer provinces with higher bicycle ownership than in the poorer
provinces where walking was a more common means of transport, i.e. those who travel
by foot see no direct impacts on their lives from road improvements. (Opinion of women
in Ban Giang Commune, Lai Chau Province, August 2003 quoted in TDSI, 2004).

                                                                                               Figure 1.
Comparison of benefits of road investments with income level and bicycle ownership.


                                                                                               Provincial Comparison
                                                                                 (From unpublished TDSI road netwotk impact study 2003)
                                                              60.00%                                                                                       300



                                                              50.00%                                                                                       250


                                                                                                                                        0.40
                          and                                 40.00%                                                                                       200 (1000

     improved
             of                                               30.00%                                                                                       150
                                            ownership                                                                                                               Income        VnD)
                             standard
                                                              20.00%                                                                                       100

                                     living          bicycle                                                                                                              Monthly
               Perception
                                                              10.00%                                                                                       50

                                                                                            0.03

                                                               0.00%                                                                                       0
                                                                               Lai Chau Province                            Hung Yen Province

                                                                                                          Province

                                                                      Households who have perceived a great improvement in living standard over last 5 yrs

                                                                      Bicycle Ownership (Bicyles per Capita)

                                                                      Income (Monthly per capita Income VnD 1,000)


The impacts of rural road improvements on women were assessed in a gender study
associated with RT2 (Merrilees, 2004). The analysis showed that overall women
benefited from improved incomes and opportunities for education but were also at a
slightly greater risk of gender based violence.



                                                                                                     12

Another study (Leisher 2003) highlighted the impact that RT2 roads had in increasing
access to local government. It concluded that the provision of physical access had the
greatest impact on holding local officials to account.

These studies illustrate the complex impacts that improved access have on receiving
communities in Vietnam's rapidly changing society.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
A recent review conducted by the World Bank Institute on the institutional development
aspects of RT2 found them to be largely appropriate. Substantial progress was made in
developing provincial, district and commune staff's capacity using training curricula that
have now been adopted by MOT.

Two key areas limited progress and the longer-term sustainability of the capacity building
and institutional support.

    · The institutional mandate and role of the RTU of the MOT's Planning and
       Investment department was overestimated in the project design. This required a
       change of approach during the project with the RTU-PID acting as a convener of
       functional MOT departments, e.g. Department of Science and Technology for
       road standards, TDSI for rural road strategy and VRA-LTU for rural road
       maintenance. This approach proved effective and led to greater institutionalization
       of RT2 supported polices and regulations into the responsible MOT departments.

    · The capacity building activities at the provincial level were undertaken with
       MOT training institutions and were successful in delivering two rounds of high
       quality demand driven training, supported by five regional resource centers
       located in MOT training schools. Training impact could have been improved
       further by closer integration with MOT's own institutional reform and capacity
       development efforts, i.e. The training should be delivered by MOT training
       institutions themselves with external project funding.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

NA


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The two main sustainability risks are (i) a lack of maintenance finance and its efficient
use; and (ii) lack of effective institutional arrangements to support decentralization.

Maintenance. The picture is complex. Routine maintenance is being done in many of the
richer provinces where districts have sufficient funds and local people can afford to
contribute. In addition, many richer provinces have invested their own resources in


                                               13

sealing RT2 roads, often at a cost equal to the RT2 project investment. The rationale for
this investment is to reduce roughness and dust problems and reduce the immediate
maintenance burden. As shown by the economic analysis, while this may not be the most
economic approach, in the absence of adequate maintenance finance, this is a justifiable
strategy to increase the longevity of RT2 roads. However, sealing roads is not a substitute
for a planned, funded, maintenance strategy.

Maintenance funding in poorer provinces is of much greater concern. The costs of
maintenance per person are at least four times higher than those in richer areas. Poorer
provinces have the least budget available to fund maintenance or seal road links.
Consequently local communities are expected to contribute considerable labor input into
maintaining roads, but this is rarely sufficient to ensure routine maintenance is
undertaken. In addition, there is an absolute lack of periodic maintenance finance to fund
regravelling and other more extensive repairs that are beyond the capacity of local
communities and commune staff. As a consequence many roads constructed in poorer
provinces under RT2 will deteriorate rapidly over the next two to five years unless
District managed maintenance funding is provided.

A key constraint to the provision of maintenance funding is the lack of recurrent transport
budgets. Recurrent funding for rural roads (as opposed to investment finance) is hard to
obtain in the dual budgeting system in Vietnam. The block grant for recurrent
expenditures is transferred to provinces and allocated across all sectors by the provincial
leadership. This naturally prioritizes recurrent social sector and salary expenditures with
transport expenditure being perceived as primarily an investment budget item. In part,
this explains the 'RT2 sealing strategy' adopted in richer provinces; as upgrading roads is
considered an investment budget item. In poorer provinces, with low budgets and higher
per capita maintenance costs, the only solutions are higher levels of central government
transfers for maintenance and increased budget flexibility to use more investment budget
for maintenance ­ particularly periodic maintenance.

Decentralization. A key risk to the institutional development outcomes of RT2 is the lack
of reform at the central level to address the impacts of decentralization. The MOT still
has a role to play, but this has not been defined and little capacity has been put in place to
support decentralized implementation. For example MOT has not issued the inter-
ministerial circular required to implement the normative guidelines and planning tools for
maintenance developed in RT2. Due to Vietnam's far reaching decentralization policy
provincial transport activities are no longer perceived as part of the central Ministry's
mandate and this is reflected in weak reporting and information sharing. For example,
MOT are aware that the poor quality of works in some Provinces is leading to early,
expensive road failures. However the center is perceived as having no mandate to take
corrective action and lacks the monitoring systems to actively assess provincial
performance. Developing the center's role to sustainably deliver these functions was an
aim of RT2, without which the capacity and institutional development outcomes of the
project are at risk. Progress was made on improving specific areas (standards,
maintenance guidelines and supporting the new local transport unit in VRA); however the
overall mandate of MOT for sub-national road management remains unclear.



                                              14

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As noted in section 2.1, the project exhibited weaknesses in three areas at entry: (i) in
some instances the limited technical specifications led to sub-optimal designs; (ii) the
institutional components did not fully reflect the institutional realities of MOT; and (iii)
the challenges of introducing decentralized competitive procurement were
underestimated.

Whilst acknowledging these limitations, RT2's overall development objectives were
closely aligned with both Government and World Bank strategies on rural accessibility.
This alignment combined with clear, simple implementation arrangements, facilitated
timely completion without compromising environmental concerns or social safeguards.
Most importantly the design ensured timely delivery of the majority of the project
development objectives.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. While implementation difficulties did occur a
QAG review in 2002 noted the pro-activeness of World Bank supervision, including:

    · Working with the PMU systematically to improve the management information
        systems to address weaknesses in reporting;
    · Detailed procurement reviews and amendments to the Operations Manual to
        address collusion;
    · Increased attention to technical design and implementation quality; and
    · Revising the approach to TA provision to reflect the weakness of the RTU in PID.

Additionally, the Bank's focus on establishing greater team presence in Hanoi (by
relocating the team leader, as well as procurement, financial management and safeguard
specialists in-country) was cited by all stakeholders as a significant enhancement. It had a
direct effect on the quality of supervision and led to immediate improvements in project
implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank actively addressed client requests in a timely manner and adapted appropriately
as major issues emerged. Proactive engagement with the implementing agency to
reinforce procurement and fiduciary controls enabled implementation to continue despite
allegations of collusive behavior amongst bidders.



                                             15

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The government had a strong commitment to the investment components of the project
and facilitated their timely completion. MOT did not initially respond actively when
indicators of collusion were identified in the first years of implementation. In addition
MOT did not show high levels of commitment to the institutional aspects of the project.
As a consequence there was limited progress towards decentralization and the RTU did
not receive the resources from the MOT to develop policy and monitoring capacity.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

PMU 18's capacity to implement the project improved over the life of RT2 and
contributed towards timely completion. However procurement and financial reviews of
PMU 18 highlighted the inadequacies of government FM systems and procurement
capacity. As a result RT2 suffered from widespread procurement irregularities and PMU
18 was also slow to put in place improved FM systems.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Borrower performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. RT2 is one of the few
projects in the Vietnam portfolio to be completed on time, within budget and with the
successful implementation of the majority of the project components. However, borrower
performance has been adversely affected by widespread procurement irregularities and
the limited commitment to the institutional strengthening components of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

Transparency and Accountability. The key procurement lesson learnt from RT2 is the
need to support Vietnam's development and adherence to a modern competitive
procurement practice. Government agencies have traditionally allocated work to state
owned construction enterprises often in an un-transparent manner. Specific
recommendations for future projects include: greater disclosure including publication of
contract award information; rationalized thresholds for use of the less competitive
methods; establishment of complaints handling mechanisms; participation of project
beneficiaries in procurement; agreeing upon indicators of collusion before project
effectiveness and clear and consistent follow-up on irregularities and remedial actions.

Similarly, for financial management the key recommendation is recognize the importance
of developing modern, uniform FM systems, the introduction of internal audit functions
and development of capacity to use government FM systems effectively.




                                             16

Developing Appropriate Technical Standards. The simplified design standards,
surfacing options and associated cost limitations for district and commune roads drew
criticism from many of the project stakeholders because of the perception of poor quality
and low sustainability. Subsequent research backed this view with high rainfall and poor
material quality being key determinants in the use of gravel. Future operations should
adopt a more flexible approach, based on improved national standards, to provide greater
technical guidance to provinces on standards and surface specification. Further work also
needs to be done to monitor the trials and complete the economic analysis to support
these decisions and undertake trials in the three remaining geographic areas of Vietnam.

Strong Ownership of Institutional Development Activities. Institutional development
can only be effective when based on a sound analysis of the institutional mandates,
incentives and capacity of the agencies responsible for rural transport in Vietnam. The
project did not invest sufficient time in strengthening MOT's own training institutes and
institutionalizing RT2 training material. Future training should also be delivered in a
demand led way by giving provinces more control over training budgets.

Scope of Consultant Services. The long term international consultants had limited
impact due to their central location and a lack of local knowledge and language skills.
The consultants had difficulty monitoring the implementation of the project over such a
wide area. Future projects should rely more on local consultants based regionally.

Rural Road Network Maintenance Financing. Based on RT2 experience a network
approach to maintenance should be adopted that provides provinces with clear incentives
to increase recurrent financing to ensure sufficient maintenance funding.

Supporting Small-Scale Contracting Market. The development of the private sector
was particularly successful primarily because it focused on providing a market for small-
scale contractors. This approach should be continued in future. Future training/support to
the private sector should be mainstreamed through business associations to improve
sustainability and encourage the separation of the private sector contractors from the state
agencies awarding contracts.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies (See Annex 7)

Implementation by the Bank - Overall, the Banks performance was highly satisfactory
and very supportive to the MOT/PMU18. Early delays in Bank approvals were alleviated
with the assignment of the Task Leader to Hanoi.

Implementation by the Borrower - The Government of Vietnam, who was represented
by the State Bank of Vietnam, MOT, MPI, MOF, PMU18, RTUs at the central level and
the Provincial, District and Commune Peoples Committees (PPCs, DPCs and CPCs),
PDOTs and PPMUs at the Provincial level worked together as a team to successfully
implement RTP2. This team received strong support from the local people affected by the
project, and by the contractors hired to implement the works. However collusion and



                                              17

fraud in bidding procedures by some contractors and some PPMU staff, created the need
to apply sanctions against the offending parties.

7.3. Recommendations for Future Rural Road Operations
· Measures to monitor and legally address collusion need to be strengthened.
· Associations fostering the development of "Small Scale Private Road Construction
    Contractors" should be formed by the contractors with support from the GOV.
· All future rural road development including construction and maintenance should be
    based upon maps of Provincial Road Networks and Master Plans.
· The MOT through the RTUs should develop Technical Guidelines and Specifications
    specific to Rural Road Construction.
· The design of all rural road works should be based upon "Total Design Concepts"
    with the responsibility and cost of doing these works identified in the feasibility
    studies.

(b) Cofinanciers (see Annex 8)
DFID was the only co-financier of RT2. DFID initially allocated $ 26 million at the start
of the project. This was subsequently increased to $ 38.25 million7 in 2003/4. DFID's
parallel grant finance for the TA components allowed the technical assistance to respond
flexibly to MOT demand. This arrangement did however mean that the WB had to play
an important coordinating role to ensure the links between MOT, PMU 18 and DFID. A
task which DFID recognize was not always easy particularly in handling the PMU 18
corruption scandal. The proof that DFID value and fully appreciate the partnership
developed in RT2 is evident in continuing DFID support for RT3.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
No specific comments from other stakeholders were sought. Comments from communes
and private sector beneficiaries from RT2 research (WSP reports and Mekong Economics,
2005) found the impacts of RT2 to be highly beneficial for community and contractor
development respectively.




7These figures relate to both the contribution to RT2 components 1, 3 & 5 supported through a Trust fund with the WB
and a bi-lateral contribution for components 2 & 4.




                                                         18

                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

              Components                           Appraisal                  Actual              Percentage of
                                             Estimate (USD M)               (USD M)*               Appraisal
1. Institutional Development To PMU
18 And PPMUs                                                8.80                        8.31                 88%
2. Institutional Development To MOT                         2.50                        2.63                101%
3. Rehabilitation Of Rural Roads                        129.20                      139.38                  108%
4. Rural Road Maintenance                                   3.30                        5.13                147%
5. Training Of Domestic Contractors                         0.60                        0.63                105%
                    Total Baseline Cost                   144.4                     156.08                  108%
Physical Contingencies                                      0.20
Price Contingencies                                         0.70
                   Total Project Costs                  145.30                      312.16                107%
Cancelled from IDA credit                                                               1.26
Cancelled from DFID Trust Fund                                                          0.37
            Total Financing Required                    145.30                      313.79                109%
*Note: These figures are indicative as they do not account for the changes in value of IDA, Government and
DFID contributions made in SDR, Dong and GBP. Component values in the PAD and elsewhere in this ICR
include contingencies.


 (b) Financing

                                             Type of             Appraisal
        Source of Funds                                                           Actual      Percentage of
                                          Cofinancing            Estimate
                                                                 (USD M)         (USD M)        Appraisal

Borrower                                 Counterpart
                                         Funding                     15.20           15.20          100%

UK: British Department for            Grant
International Development              (Including                    26.20           38.25          146%

(DFID)                                 Additional finance)          (38.61)                         (99%)

International Development
Association (IDA)                                                   103.90          102.64             99%




                                                       19

                             Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                                 ($ as approved, $ actual)

Component 1. Institutional Development to PMU 18 and PDOTs, ($9.4 M, $8.3 M).
Objective - to assist in the delivery of the project civil works, ensure safeguards
compliance and develop capacity for future implementation of rural road activities.

i) Institutional Development to PMU 18

All PMU 18 PID1 staff (100 personnel) were trained in various aspects of project
implementation ­ procurement, planning, contract management, quality control and
payment procedures. Training also included specific programs to respond to identified
training needs, as follows;

    · English Language Training for PID1 North and South staff:
    · Training Techniques (Training of Trainers):
    · Overseas Study Tours:
    · Monitoring & Evaluation System Training:

On-the-Job Training was also provided to PMU 18 /PID1 staff on procurement, planning
construction management, accounting, social and environmental issues, and
administration.

Project Monitoring System: The Monitoring system was developed to include:

· Financial Progress which was expanded to include physical progress and modified
    to include data input from the Provincial Monthly Progress Reports including the
    generation of S-Curves for forecasting.
· A Land Acquisition, Social and Environmental component to monitor
    Compensation Plan implementation (for project affected people and land
    compensation) and expanded to include ethic minority areas and locations where
    social and environmental issues had to be considered.
· The Procurement component to track the progress of key procurement dates; date of
    bid advertisement, dates bids were due, date of bid opening, identify collusion
    indicators etc.
· The Flagging System to electronically notify RT2 managers when key activities were
    to be completed and to notify of delay.

Impact of training
Using the systems and capacity developed, the total time for the tendering process was
reduced from an average of 27.5 weeks for the 1st YWP and 21.4 for the 2nd YWP to an
average of 13 weeks in the 3rd YWP and 4th YWPs.

Collusion Analyses: Training increased the awareness of PMU 18 and PPMUs to the
potential for corruption. A system for comparing contractor bid documents to determine



                                              20

if collusion may have occurred was introduced. The system was used to compare and find
contractor bid documents with the same unit prices, spelling errors, drawings, work plans
etc. Upon identifying these similarities, PMU 18 advised the Provinces and the MOT of
the possibility of collusion and that appropriate sanctions should be applied.

ii) Institutional Development to PDOTs/PPMUs
· To strengthen their capacity, the PPMUs from all project provinces were provided
    with construction management training. Four rounds of training on project
    implementation were organized involving 1,550 PPMU and contractor staff. Training
    was practically orientated and focused on project guidelines, safeguard policies
    payment procedures, construction supervision, quality control, and as-built
    documentation.

· PDOT/PPMUs capacity was also developed to improve supervision and quality of
    works through on the job training. The TA teams worked with the PPMUs, to review
    project implementation including: planning, procurement, engineering, payment and
    social safeguard issues. Problems were addressed and suggestions were given to the
    PDOT/PPMUs during the course of visits. The findings and recommendations were
    subsequently reported to PMU 18 for actions and detailed in the 2 page Thumbnail
    Sketches of the status of implementation in each Province, which were entered in the
    M&E system. All project provinces were visited several times.

Provision of Vehicles and Equipment ($2.47 M): project, vehicles, office equipment
and computers were purchased for PMU 18 /PID1 and the Project PDOTS/PPMUs. Each
PPMU was provided with one four-wheel car, four motorbikes and office equipment.
These have functioned effectively to facilitate project implementation of the PPMUs.

Component 2. Institutional Development to MOT, ($2.6 M, $2.6 M).
Objective: To develop capacity to i) formulate strategy and policy, ii) improve sector
monitoring and evaluation and iii) increase awareness and access to national and
international rural transport information. Work to develop maintenance awareness and
systems is covered under component 4.

Implementation
The RT2 design envisaged the RTU-PID as playing a central role in the rural transport
sector. After a year of implementation it was recognized that its role was limited to
coordinating the functional departments of MOT on issues relating to rural transport. As a
consequence, and at the request of MOT, the RTU Development Plan was extended to
include two other units in MOT responsible for rural transport. These were the RTU of
TDSI (responsible for RT strategy and research) and the newly-formed Local Transport
Unit created in the Vietnam Roads Administration (VRA-LTU) which was assigned
responsibility for maintenance of provincial, district and rural roads.

i) Strategy and Policy
SEDP (2006-2010) ­ RT2 supported RTU-TDSI to develop the Rural Transport
Section of the MOT 5 year plan (2006-2010).



                                             21

Updating of the Rural Transport Strategy ­ was completed by TDSI-RTU in 2006.
It defines the strategy for rural transport development in the eight diverse regions of
Vietnam including maintenance. It was approved in January 2007.
The Inland Waterways Study ­ was conducted by RTU-TDSI. Its recommendations
were incorporated in the update of the RTS and WB Mekong Transport and Infrastructure
Development Project.
Slope Stability Study - The Slope Stability Study findings conducted with RTU-PID are
being incorporated into the revision to rural standards and construction methodologies
covered in component 4.

ii) Rural Transport Monitoring and Evaluation
M&E Systems ­ PDOT M&E Representatives were assigned in all RT2 provinces
and trained to collect data for monitoring and evaluation of the rural transport output
and impact indicators.
Impact on Communes ­ An RTU-TDSI team undertook detailed case studies in four
communes with RT2 roads with RT2 support. The purpose of the case studies was to
investigate further the impact of RT2 roads on local communities. The results are
included in section 3.5.
Training Impact ­ Following delivery of maintenance training in RT2, RTU-PID
participated in training impact studies at the commune, district and provincial levels. The
results are shown in component 4.

iii) Increasing awareness and access to national and international information
Project Web Site ­ the development of the rural transport page of the MoT website
became the main platform for sharing rural transport information (see
http://www.mt.gov.vn/default).
WRC ­ MOT was supported to join the World Roads Congress (PIARC) to
reduce the isolation of Vietnamese professionals in the transport sector.
IFG ­ the three RTUs were also supported to become active members of the
International Focus Group on Rural Road Engineering for Poverty Alleviation.

Component 3. Rehabilitation of District, & Commune Roads ($129.2 M, $139.4 M).
Objective: Upgrade rural roads to provide all year access to poor communes.

Outputs: At appraisal the project design committed US$129.2 million of IDA, DFID and
GoV funds to rehabilitate an estimated 10,000 km of roads and construct 5,000 linear-
meters of bridges over 6m in length. At completion 1,820 roads totaling 7,599 km and
1,039 bridges with a total length of 26,144 linear meters of bridge work were completed
using RT2 funds at a cost of approximately US$139.38 million. The increased costs were
paid for by additional grant finance from DFID.

The differences between the actually constructed lengths and the targets are substantial
and are explained as follows. The length of bridges constructed by the project is far
higher (five times) than anticipated at appraisal, for two reasons. Firstly at the design
stage bridges having lengths less than 6 meters were not included. During
implementation their constructed lengths were included, increasing the length of bridges
by around 300 percent.


                                             22

                              Table A2.1. RT2 Civil works completed

                                               Road works                                 Bridge works

       Work program                    No         No.        Total road          No            No.       Total

                                   contracts     Roads      length (km)      Contracts      Bridges      bridge
                                                                                                       length (m)
 1. Total Number of Contracts and Contracted Length of Roads and Bridges
 1st YWP                                  368        504            2,119            126          245        6,488
 2nd YWP                                  462        469            2,266            186          404       11,534
 3rd YWP                                  338        421            1,671            114          209        4,739
 4th YWP                                  202        196              795             31           94        1,881
 4th YWP (extended)                       158        179              613             54           77        1,502
 Surfacing Trial Program                    51        51              136              -            -            -

 Totals                                 1,579      1,820            7,599            511        1,029       26,144


Secondly the actual number (and therefore length) of bridges was underestimated by the
simplified methodologies used to estimate project costs. This particularly affected the
Mekong Delta where numerous waterway crossings are required. Provinces also
prioritized bridge investments as they are fundamental to access provision, i.e. a poor
quality track was `usable' apart from after heavy rain, but a missing bridge ensured a
commune remained unconnected. This rationale was the basis for the project supporting
an increased number of bridges. This decision also ensured that support was directed to
the Mekong Delta where the levels of road access are the lowest in Vietnam.

As a consequence 7,599 km instead of the originally estimated 10,000 km of commune
roads were completed. The consequence of this decision was that some Basic Access
Roads to communes were not fully rehabilitated. At the end of RT2 an estimated 180
communes in the 40 project provinces were left without all weather basic access roads.8

Civil works, design and supervision costs. RT2 limited costs by imposing a relatively
low cost ceiling for RT2 roads. This restricted the variation in costs per kilometer to
between $12,500 and $16,000/Km and effectively restricted the choice of surface to
gravel. This was a continual source of debate during the project. In particular in the
Mekong Delta where gravel haulage distances are large and therefore unit costs the
highest. In addition as these roads are liable to annual flooding the gravel surface is
particularly vulnerable, calling into question the blanket use of a gravel surface. This
highlighted the need for surface trials (detailed in Annex 10) to establish real life costs
for different surface options on which to base rational investment decisions.




8This is a best estimate at project close. Inaccuracies are due to the difficulty of obtaining accurate
information from Provinces on BAR condition and the fact that in many provinces communes were split
during the lifetime of the project; there are now more communes than at the start of RT2.


                                                      23

                             Figure A2.1. Variation of design and total costs by region

                           Variation of Design and Cost per Km for RT2 roads per region

            $18,000                                                                                4.0%
                          Cost ($)/Km    % Survey & Design
            $16,000                                                                                3.5%

            $14,000                                                                                       rof
                                                                                                   3.0%

erte $12,000                                                                                       2.5%      sedutne                    ng
m                                                                                                                   m
 ilokreptsoC$10,000                                                                                                                       esiD
                                                                                                   2.0%                                       d
                                                                                                                                               an
             $8,000                                                                                                  vestnIfo
                                                                                                   1.5%
             $6,000                                                                                                          egat                evyruS

                                                                                                   1.0%
             $4,000                                                                                                              cenreP

             $2,000                                                                                0.5%


                 $0                                                                                0.0%
                     North   North   Red River North    North  Central  South   Mekong     RT2
                     East     West     Delta   West    Central Highland  East    Delta   Average

                                                      Region




              The project recorded very wide cost variations for the non-civil works components. The
              design supervision, resettlement, insurance and procurement costs ranged from 2 percent
              - 10 percent of the total civil works contract value, with consistently higher values in the
              Mekong Delta. The reasons for the variation are not entirely clear and merit further
              investigation to see if they reflect higher consultant costs, greater attention to the
              preparation and supervision of works or another contributing factor.

              Of particular interest are the supervision costs. Experience gained in RT2, in particular
              from the surfacing trials, has highlighted how sensitive rural roads are to material and
              construction quality. Just 0.33 percent of RT2 funds were spent on supervision
              consultants and it seems likely that lack of adequate supervision led to the poor quality
              construction noted in some cases. The lack of independent supervision is also likely to
              have increased the opportunities for corruption during implementation. However merely
              increasing the value of supervision contracts is unlikely to be effective unless there are
              accompanying increases in consultant capacity and improved recognition of their role in
              ensuring contractual compliance.




                                                            24

                                         Figure A2.2. Variation of non-civil works costs by region

                                10%

                                                     Supervision   % Survey & Design   % Non Civil work
                                 9%


   tsoc                          8%



       ctar                      7%


                                 6%
           contl
                vi
                  ci             5%

                    of
                      gea        4%


                         centreP 3%


                                 2%


                                 1%


                                 0%
                                   North East North Red River   North    North     Central  South      Mekong  RT2
                                              West   Delta      West    Central   Highland   East      Delta  Average

                                                             RT2 non-civil costs by region




Component 4. Rural Road Maintenance ($3.5 M, $5.1 M).
Objective: To support the development of guidelines for rural road maintenance and
improve the capacity of the districts and communes to implement rural road maintenance.

The project developed a twin strategy to i) increase capacity of the authorities responsible
for maintenance, and ii) reduce the maintenance burden on local authorities to improve
sustainability (see Figure A2.3). The second element of the strategy started under RT2
was then taken forward under a DFID financed research program SEACAP and as such is
outside the scope of this ICR. However the results are very relevant to the outcomes of
this project and future rural road projects in Vietnam and the region. A summary of the
results is therefore presented separately in Annex 10.

Outputs: Increased capacity of authorities responsible for maintenance.
Initially support was limited to the maintenance of roads funded by the project. It was
recognized that this approach did not address the need for planned maintenance and if
successful was in danger of directing limited maintenance funds away from roads already
constructed, which were in greater need of maintenance. Consequently the approach was
changed to one that developed maintenance capacity and management systems network
wide. To ensure the work responded to demand the technical assistance consulted with
provinces to identify the options for maintenance delivery. These were then formalized in
the MOT Rural Road Maintenance Handbook for Communes.




                                                                      25

                     Figure A2.3. Twin track maintenance strategy




Training was then provided to all Commune, District and Provincial authorities in
Vietnam on commune level maintenance. The 14,000 people involved received two
rounds of training based on their needs and using a modular training approach, (see
http://www.vietnamtraining.net/indexE.htm). Trainers were trained in each PDOT to
provide annual refresher training. Examples of the impacts of the training for six
Provinces is shown in figure A2.4. As shown the impact of the training program was
positive but highly variable. Analysis of the results indicated that the key determinants of
impact were the initial capacity of the personnel receiving training and the level of
commitment shown by the Commune, District and Provincial leadership.

In addition a Rural Road Maintenance Handbook for Provinces was developed to
address fund management and higher level maintenance issues beyond thecapacity of
the communes. It was also recognized that maintenance management needed to be based
on realistic network information. At the start of RT2 many Provinces did not have up to
date maps of their rural transport network. Consequently early efforts focused on
developing a database of rural roads that built on a GIS system already in place in VRA.
The `RoadNAM' system developed was adopted by the LTU VRA and has subsequently
been used to prepare annual maintenance plans for 16 Provinces participating in RT3.
The figures produced indicate that only 5-10 percent of current investment funds need
to be set aside for an effective planned maintenance program. It also shows that this
approach would be three times more cost effective than the "build and forget" approach
practiced widely at present.




                                            26

                      Figure A2.4. Impacts of commune maintenance training
                                            Handbook training                        Maintenance Planning                     Maintenance Resources & Support             Maintenance Policy

                                               (1)           (2)      (3)       (4)        (5)           (6)         (7)          (8)          (9)           (10)          (11)          (12)
  Province    District     Commune          Transport    Handbook Commune    Map of   Road         Annual       Detailed     Resources for Maintenance Household       Legal policy Agreements
                                            staff status status   road       commune  Condition    maintenance  mobilization maintenance   technical     contributions issued by    with households
                                                                  inventory  road     Assessment   Plan         plan                       guidelines to for           CPC
                                                                             network  Survey                                               households    maintenance
                                                                                  1        2                                                                 33
            Kim Dong   1. Vu Xa              1      ###       0      2  2###   1    ##  2     ####    0    #####  0     ####    1   1###         0                       0    ####      0     ###
                                                                                  1
Hung Yen               2. Song Mai           3    3###       22      2  2###   1    ##  2  2####      0    #####  0     ####    1   1###       11            33          0    ####      0     ###
                                                                                  1                                                                          22
            Tien Lu    3. Ngo Quyen          1      ###      33      2  2###   1    ##  2  2####      0    #####  0     ####    1   1###        11                       0    ####      0     ###

                       4. Le Xa              3      ###      22      2  2###   1  1 ##  2  2####      0    #####  0     ####    1   1###         0           11          0    ####      0     ###
                                                  3
            Dien Bien  1. Sam Mun            3      ###      22      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    1   1#####  0     ####    1   1###        11            11         0    ####      0     ###

Dien Bien              2. Nua Ngan           1      ###       0      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    1   1#####  0     ####    1   1###        11            22         0    ####      0     ###

            Tien Lu    3. Keo Lom            1      ###       0      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  0     ####    3   3###        22           11          0    ####      0     ###

                       4. Phu Nhi            1      ###      11      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  0     ####    1   1###        22            11         0    ####      0     ###
                                                  2
            Thang Binh 1. Binh An            2      ###      33      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  3   3####     3   3###        22           22          0    ####      22    ###
                                                  3
Quang Nam              2. Binh Trieu         3      ###      22      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  3   3####     3   3###        33           22          0    ####      2 2   ###
                                                  3                               1
            Que Son    3. Que Thuan          3      ###      22      0    ###  1    ##  0     ####    1   1#####  3   3####     2   2###       33            22          3  3####       3 3   ###

                       4. Que Chau           2    2 ###      11      2  2###   1    ##  0     ####    2    #####  3   3####     2   2###        33           11          3  3####       33    ###

            Buon Don   1. Ea Wer             1      ###      11      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    1   1#####  0     ####    1   1###        11           11          0    ####      0     ###

Dak lak                2. Ea Huar            3    3###       22      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    1   1#####  0     ####    1   1###        33            11         0    ####      0     ###

            Cu M'Gar   3. Ea Drong           3    3###       22      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  0     ####    1   1###        22           11          0    ####      0     ###

                       4. Ea Tul             1      ###       0      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  0     ####    1   1###         2
                                                                                                                                                 2           11          0    ####      0     ###
                                                                                  1
            D Minh Chau1. Phuoc Ninh         1      ###      22      1  1###   1    ##  1  1####      1   1#####  0     ####    1   1 ###       11           2 2         0    ####      0     ###
                                                                                  1                       2#####
Tay ninh               2. Phan               3    3###       22      1  1###   1    ##  1  1####      2           3   3####     1   1 ###       22           22          0    ####      0     ###

            Chau Thanh 3. Thanh Long         3    3###       22      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    1   1#####  0     ####    1   1 ###       11           22          0    ####      0     ###

                       4. Tri Binh           2    2###       22      3  3###   0    ##  0     ####    2   2#####  3   3####     3   3###        33           22          0    ####      0     ###

            Hong Ngu   1. An Binh B          3    3###       22      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  0     ####    1   1 ###       11           22          0    ####      0     ###

Dong Thap              2. Long Khanh B       1      ###      22      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  0     ####    1   1 ###       11           22          0    ####      0     ###

            Thap Muoi  3. Phu Dien           3    3###       22      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  0     ####    1   1###         0           22          0    ####      0     ###

                       4. My An              2    2###       22      0    ###  0    ##  0     ####    0    #####  0     ####    1   1 ###       22           22          0    ####      0     ###

                                    Overall       2          2          1        1         1              1           1             1          2             2              1          1
                                           46%              63%    33%        33%      25%          13%         25%           17%              21%                      8%           17%


        Key:        1  Some impact                    2  Positive impact            3 Very positive impact             Blank: No impact




Component 5 Training of domestic contractors, ($0.6 M, $0.6 M).
Objective: To increase the level of private sector participation in the rural roads sector.

Outputs: The development of Domestic Contractors, especially Private Contractors in
RT2 was particularly successful. Achievement of the objective can be recognized through
the increased percentage of private contractors involved in RT2 works for each Year
Working Program (YWP) as follows:

                                Table A2.2. Private sector participation in RT2

                                                                           Year Working Program
           Item                        1st                 2nd                3rd               4th           Extended                   Surfacing                     Total
                                    YWP                 YWP                 YWP               YWP              4th YWP                       trials
Number of Private                     327                  487               377               233                 210                           51                     1685
Contractors
Percentage of Private                66.1                 75.6            82.1                 100                 100                         100                       80.6
Contractors (%)

The achievement is attributed to the following:

      · Project requirements that State-Owned-Enterprise (SOE) bidders must meet the
           following eligibility requirements: (i) be legally and financially autonomous, (ii)
           operate under commercial law, (iii) are not a dependent agency of the Borrower
           (Employer), and (iv) are not a military entity, effectively produced a level playing
           field for private sector contractors.


                                                                               27

    · Contract values were relatively small, encouraging the participation of local
        contractors.
    · Private Contractors were aware that training would be provided by the project to
        improve their capacity and increase their ability to win new work.

The training program effectively equipped contractors with the skills required to bid for
WB contracts. Specifying a preference for the private sector in the project created a
market. By the end of the project 1685 private sector contractors had been awarded work
under the project representing 80.6 percent of the total. Importantly in the 3rd and 4th Year
Work Plans all the winning contractors were from the private sector, demonstrating
improvements in their ability to bid for and win contracts. The training program also led
to substantially improved contractor performance, i.e. in preparing bids and payment
certificates and implementing construction works.




                                            28

                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Project benefits
There has been a substantial amount of research carried out on the impacts of rural roads
in Vietnam. These analyses suggest substantial benefits both in terms of improved access
but also in terms of, poverty reduction and increased economic activity from rural road
investments. These studies have tended to focus on the multiplier effects of rural roads on
broader social and economic outcomes. The results from some of the Vietnam specific
studies have been summarized in the table below.

      Table A3.1 Summary of recent research on rural road impacts in Vietnam

 Authors              Main findings
 Glewwe, Gragnolati   Households living near a paved road, with access to secondary schools and
 and Zaman (2000)     markets have a 67 percent higher probability of escaping poverty than
                      households living in communes where these facilities do not exist.
 Van de Walle and     Improved rural road access in Vietnam increased access to freight services,
 Cratty (2002)        firewood, hospitals, diversification of income sources and increased household
                      assets.
 Susannah Hopkins     The WB's transport project, though it had just one activity--road upgrading--
 Leisher (2003)       had, as has been shown, a dramatic effect on transparency, accountability, and
                      equity.
 Phin (2004)          The study on Road Network impacts on the poor compared the opportunities
                      presented to rural households from road improvements in one remote upland
                      Province and one well connected province near Hanoi. It found positive benefits
                      in both Provinces but that these were captured more by communes close to
                      markets and by richer households with access to productive assets.
 Shenggen Fan,        Found a close relationship between the level of economic development and
 Pham Lan Huong,      access to the road network in Vietnam. Next to agricultural research, road
 and Trinh Quang      investment was found to generate higher returns than other forms of public
 Long (2004)          investment. For every dong invested in roads three dong of agricultural value
                      would be produced. Overall it was found that every billion dong (US$ 63,000)
                      invested in roads would raise 132 people out of poverty.
 Theo Ib Larsen,      Spending one percent of provincial GDP, in Vietnam, on transport investment
 Huong Lan Pham       will reduce poverty by between 0.5 and one percent and a US$ 50 million
 and Martin Rama      investment will reduce poverty in the 25 poorest provinces by between 6 and 7
 (2004)               percent.
 Aksoy and Aylin      Research on the impacts of trade and agricultural reform indicate that the high
 Isik-Dikmelik        coverage of basic infrastructure in the rural areas of Vietnam were a key
 (2007)               determinant in the rural poor's ability to benefit from Doi Moi and more recent
                      trade reforms.

Road user benefits
For the purposes of the economic analysis of RT2 a more conventional road economic
appraisal has been undertaken where the benefits from the investments are directly linked
to road users.


The overwhelming majority of road users on rural roads in Vietnam are using bicycles
and motorcycles. In some locations they also use Cong Nongs which are a locally
manufactured small truck. The use of conventional trucks and buses is still limited



                                                  29

although numbers have been increasing and some rural roads see substantial volumes.
The benefits to these road users come from improved road condition and the subsequent
reductions in vehicle operating costs and reduced journey times. The VOC and VOT
benefits used in this analysis are based on a spreadsheet model that was developed at the
beginning of this project.

                                Table A3.2. Traffic count data by region

                    t5            t5                                  e

                      ks>           ks<                 ongN
                                                 Car        ng         yclrco                 cartdnah           r
                                                                                                                             tal
                                                                                      Cycle
                         Truc          Truc                                                                       Walke         To
                                                              Co             Mot                      imal/
                                                                                                           An
    Mekong                   0             1        1           0     980            733      17                142         1874
    Central                  0             1        1   13            306            325                     1  288         935
    coastal
    Central         18            15             11     81            800            248                     6  405         1584
    highlands
    Red river                7    12                4   98            853            968      80                1063        3085
    delta
    Northern        29            20             35     28            649            503      119               236         1619
    highlands

The quality of traffic data collected through the provinces was poor and by the end of the
project there was still no culture of traffic data collection. As such it is difficult to
determine with any degree of accuracy how traffic levels have changed on particular road
sections over time. However, the project did undertake various other surveys; as part of
the monitoring program, the review of the performance of the gravel roads and as part of
the preparation for the third rural transport program. The following data summarizes the
information collected as part of the gravel scoping study and it shows that there are
significant regional differences. It also highlights the importance of motorcycles and
bicycles. When converted to a four wheel vehicle equivalent they constitute a significant
traffic volume.

Road and Bridge Costs
Overall the project did not meet its targets of 10,000 km of road to be rehabilitated
reaching a total of almost 7,600 including the surfacing trial roads as shown in Table 3.3.

                              Table A3.3. Road and bridge lengths and costs
    (Note: road costs are estimates as some smaller bridges were included in road link contracts)

                                            Number km or          Av. cost/km or bridge                         Total value
                                              bridges                            (US$)                         (US$ million)
   Road rehabilitation                        7,463                             13,400                                 100.0
   Surfacing trials                            132                              37,900                                 5.2
   Bridges                                    1,074                             32,300                                 34.2
   Total                                                                                                               139.4


However, the project did build significantly more bridges than originally anticipated
(26,000 meters compared to 5,000 meters estimated at appraisal) making up 24.6 percent



                                                                 30

of the civil works costs. Table A3.4 shows that average construction costs did exceed the
numbers anticipated at appraisal. Although for bridges the costs were significantly below
the maximum cost range.

                        Table A3.4. Average road and bridge costs

         Terrain           Mountain   Agricultural   Irrigated     Delta      Sandy Coastal
                                        Upland       Lowland                      Strip
                            (USD)        (USD)        (USD)        (USD)          (USD)

 Basic Access Roads
 Maximum Cost               17,500       14,500       14,000       20,000         12,000
 Average Cost               12,500       10,500       11,000       14,000         9,000

 Actual average cost        12,900       13,500       13,900       16,600           -

 Bridges > 6m
 Maximum Cost               70,000       70,000       70,000      100,000         70,000
 Actual average cost           -         26,600       33,300       51,900           -

As shown in table A3.4 the variation in regional road costs was limited, in part due to
project cost ceilings. The exception is the Mekong Delta where both road and bridge
costs are high because of the unique situation of this area. The costs set out in Table A3.5
also include a column for paved roads. Many of the provinces, particularly in the better-
off provinces choose to pave the roads after initial construction. While this was not
financed by IDA, for the purposes of this analysis this has been included as a scenario.

                      Table A3.5. Average road and bridge unit rates

                      Average road   Average bridge     Average total     Average total costs
                        costs/km        costs/km1          costs/km        when roads paved
Mekong                   16,600           20,500            37,100              52,100
Central Coastal          14,300           3,300             17,600              32,600
Central Highlands        13,600            900              14,500              29,500
Red River Delta          13,700           3,000             16,700              31,700
Northern                 13,200           1,900             15,100              30,100
Highlands

Average bridge costs assume that 80 percent of bridge costs are attributable to project
roads except the Mekong Delta where it is assumed that 50 percent are directly
attributable to the project roads. Approximately 50 percent of project roads were paved
using provincial funds in the year following construction. This costs roughly $15,000 per
km.

Table A3.6 shows the typical maintenance costs associated with rural roads in Vietnam.

                           Table A3.6. Average maintenance rates

        Maintenance activity        Frequency         Cost/km (US$)      Cost/km (US$)
                                                          Gravel             Paved
     Routine 1                      Annually               380                 380
     Periodic maintenance         Every 5/12 years        5,000              17,750




                                               31

Cost benefit analysis
This cost benefit analysis uses the model developed for this project to assess the viability
of upgrading roads beyond a basic access road standard. As it is impossible to do a cost
benefit analysis for each road improved under the project, this analysis has used the
typical data presented above. For each region under the project the analysis uses average
investment costs and typical traffic volumes. It also uses the low end traffic figures to
enable assessments of the viability of the more remote roads.

                      Table A3.7 Economic viability of RT2 roads

              Gravel roads     VOC ­ 25%      VOTT ­ 25%       VOC + VOTT       Assume roads
                                                                   ­ 25%            paved
             IRR     NPV/C   IRR     NPV/C    IRR    NPV/C     IRR    NPV/C     IRR   NPV/C
Mekong       19.2     3.2    15.5     2.4    17.8      2.9     13.9    2.1      23.8    4.0

Central      10.1     1.4     6.6     0.8     6.6      0.8      5.0    0.6      11.2    1.4
Coastal
Central      46.0     9.8    37.3     7.6    36.2      7.2     34.8    6.9      39.7    7.7
Highlands
Red River    46.4     9.8    38.2     7.6    43.6      9.1     35.3    6.9      44.5    8.8
Delta
Northern     46.9     9.7    37.9     7.4    37.2      7.2     35.4    6.8      42.0    8.0
Highlands
Network /     31      5.9    25.0     4.4    27.0      4.9     23.0    4.0      31.0    5.4
project
analysis

The results show that in general the road investments under RT2 have been economically
viable. Only in some of the more remote areas in the central coastal zones did roads fail
to generate positive economic returns.




                                            32

    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
           Names                      Title             Unit  Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Nancy Chen                  Sr. Financial
                            Management Specialist    EASFP   Financial Mgmt Specialist

Mary P. Judd                Sr. Anthropologist       EASSO   Anthropologist

Omowunmi Ladipo             Lead Financial
                            Management Specialist    OPCFM   Financial Mgmt Specialist

Lars C. Lund                Sr. Social Scientist     EASSO   Resettlement Specialist
Christina E. Malmberg Calvo Country Manager          LCCDO   Transport Economist

Thang Chien Nguyen          Sr. Procurement
                            Specialist               EAPCO   Procurement/Disbursement

Cuong Hung Pham             Senior Operations
                            Officer                  EASRE   Operations Officer

David N. Sislen             Senior Infrastructure
                            Economist                LCSUW   Cost Analyst

David J. Tighe              Consultant               AFTTR   Transport Economist
Dominique Van De Walle      Lead Economist           DECRG   Poverty Economist
Tosca M. Van Vijfeijken     Consultant               EACVF   Social Scientist
Wijaya Wickrema             Consultant               EASHD   Financial Analyst
Wael Zakout                 Lead Operations Officer ECSSD    Task Team Leader


Supervision/ICR
Sally L. Burningham         Sr. Transport Specialist EASTE   Task Team Leader
Christopher J. De Serio     Sr. Program Assistant     EASTE  Administrative Support
Vinh Quoc Duong             Consultant               EACIF   Environmental Specialist
Quyen Do Duong             Finance Analyst           LOAG1   Financial Management
Simon David Ellis           Sr. Transport. Specialist EASTE  Task Team Leader
Jose Luis Irigoyen          Sector Manager           LCSTR   Engineer
Mary P. Judd                Sr. Anthropologist       EASSO   Anthropologist

Omowunmi Ladipo             Lead Financial
                            Management Specialist    OPCFM   Financial Management

Hung Viet Le                Financial Management
                            Specialist               EAPCO   Financial Management

Jerry A. Lebo               Sr Transport. Specialist EASTE   Economist
Simon Lucas                Sr Transport. Specialist EASTE    Rural Infrastructure
Christina E. Malmberg Calvo Country Manager          LCCDO   Economist
Hoang Xuan Nguyen           Procurement Analyst       EAPCO  Procurement
Nga Thi Viet Nguyen         Team Assistant           EACVF   Administrative Support
Thang Chien Nguyen          Sr. Procurement Spec.    EAPCO   Procurement



                                              33

Lan Thi Thu Nguyen           Operations Analyst     EASSO        Social Developement
Maria Margarita Nunez        Sr. Highway Engineer   EASTE        Engineer
Cung Van Pham                E T Consultant         EAPCO        Financial Management

Cuong Hung Pham              Senior Operations
                             Officer                EASRE        Rural Development

Hung Kim Phung               Senior Finance Officer LOAG1        Financial Management

Jennifer K. Thomson          Sr. Financial
                             Management Specialist  EAPCO        Financial Management

Phuong Thi Minh Tran         Senior Operations
                             Officer                EASTE        Operations

Hiet Thi Hong Tran           Procurement Spec.      EAPCO        Procurement
Chau Thi Hai Tran            Finance Analyst        LOAG1        Financial Management
Hong Vu                      Sr. Operations Off.    EASSO        Resettlement



b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands
                                                 No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                        consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY99                                                             219.59
                    FY00                                           34                 84.03
                    FY01                                            1                   0.28
                                        Total:                     35                303.90
Supervision/ICR
                    FY00                                           22                 40.77
                    FY01                                           40                 53.81
                    FY02                                           36                 60.86
                    FY03                                           34                 58.78
                    FY04                                           31                 45.90
                    FY05                                           27                 32.37
                    FY06                                           36                 55.94
                    FY07                                           12                 23.38
                                        Total:                    238                371.81




                                             34

                                                                          Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

User surveys investigated the distribution of benefits within communities receiving RT2
road links. These indicate that RT2 benefits were captured by the relatively better off,
(but still poor). This is explained by the fact that richer households have more access to
productive assets and market opportunities. For example qualitative research conducted
on RT2 roads in 2004 compared two communes of differing income levels, see Figure 1.
The perception of benefits is higher in the richer provinces with higher bicycle ownership
than in the poorer provinces where walking was a more common means of transport i.e.:'
those who travel by foot see no direct impacts on their lives from road improvements.'
(Opinion of women in Ban Giang Commune, Lai Chau Province, August 2003 quoted in
TDSI, 2004).
                                                                                             Figure A5.1
Comparison of benefits of road investments with income level and bicycle ownership.


                                                                                                 Provincial Comparison
                                                                                   (From unpublished TDSI road netwotk impact study 2003)
                                                                60.00%                                                                                       300



                                                                50.00%                                                                                       250


                                                                                                                                          0.40
                            and                                 40.00%                                                                                       200 (1000

       improved
               of                                               30.00%                                                                                       150
                                              ownership                                                                                                               Income        VnD)
                               standard
                                                                20.00%                                                                                       100

                                       living          bicycle                                                                                                              Monthly
                 Perception
                                                                10.00%                                                                                       50

                                                                                              0.03

                                                                 0.00%                                                                                       0
                                                                                 Lai Chau Province                            Hung Yen Province

                                                                                                            Province

                                                                        Households who have perceived a great improvement in living standard over last 5 yrs

                                                                        Bicycle Ownership (Bicyles per Capita)

                                                                        Income (Monthly per capita Income VnD 1,000)




The impacts on women were assessed in a gender study associated with RT2 (Merrilees,
2004). The analysis showed positive impacts for women from rural road improvements
based on Vietnam Household Living Standards Survey (VHLSS) data in communes
receiving RT2 roads. However, case studies revealed that the impacts were not uniform.
Women benefited from improved incomes and opportunities for education but were also
at greater risk of gender based violence.

Another study (Leisher 2003) highlighted the impact that RT2 roads had in increasing
access to local government. The research, in Ha Tinh Province, compared RT2 with
community driven development programs that had `improving accountability' as a core
objective. The research found that provision of rural roads had the biggest single impact.



                                                                                                    35

It concluded that given access, local people were capable of holding local officials to
account.

The gender and governance studies both illustrate the complex impacts that improved
access have on receiving communities in Vietnam's rapidly changing society.




                                            36

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results




                      37

       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

7.1 Implementation by the Bank
The World Bank and DFID monitored and supervised the Project through a series of
supervision missions that were done on a Bi-annual basis. The comments and suggests
received during these missions were very supportive to the project and assisted to keep
the project on targets to meet the defined goal and objectives. The missions also led to
open discussion and evaluation on the ways forward. At the start of the project, the Bank
was slow to react to MOT/PMU18 approval requests. This was alleviated with the
assignment of a full time WB Task Leader assigned to the Hanoi WB Office. Overall,
the Banks performance was highly satisfactory and very supportive to the MOT/PMU18
in their efforts to implement the project.

7. 2 Implementation by the Borrower
The Government of Vietnam, who was represented by the State Bank of Vietnam, MOT,
MPI, MOF, PMU18, RTUs at the central level and the Provincial, District and Commune
Peoples Committees (PPCs, DPCs and CPCs), PDOTs and PPMUs at the Provincial level
worked together as a team to successfully implement RTP2. This team received strong
support from the local people affected by the project, and by the contractors hired to
implement the works.

Delays in procurement and construction by some provinces affected the completion of a
limited amount of work. In addition, collusion and fraud in bidding procedures by some
contractors and some PPMU staff, created the need to apply sanctions against the
offending parties.

7.3. Recommendations for Future Rural Road Operations
Methods to establish whether or not collusion and fraud are occurring during
procurement of contracts and implementation of the works need established and
implemented. Further, strengthening the legal aspects against collusion and fraud in the
contractual documents and institution of legal methods to deal with illegal activities need
to be addressed by the GOV.

Associations fostering the development of "Small Scale Private Road Construction
Contractors" should be formed by the contractors with support from the GOV.

The MOT should invite PMU18, PMU1, the VRA, RTUs and representative PDOTs to
organize a seminar titled "Lessons Learned during the Implementation of Rural Roads
Construction and Maintenance" so that all parties can gain from each others experiences.

All future rural road development including construction and maintenance should be
based upon maps of Provincial Road Networks and Master Plans.

The MOT through the RTUs should develop Technical Guidelines and Specifications
specific to Rural Road Construction.



                                           38

The design of all rural road works should be based upon "Total Design Concepts" with
the responsibility and cost of doing these works identified in the feasibility studies.


The lessons learned by PMU18 on RTP1 and 2, as well as the M&E system and its
critique should be provided to PMU5 for use as desired on RTP3.




                                            39

          Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

DFID was the only co-financier of RT2. DFID initially allocated $ 26 million at the start
of the project. This was subsequently increased to $ 38.25 million9 in 2003/4. This
demonstrated DFID's satisfaction with the performance of the project, despite
procurement problems. A DFID assessment of RT2 performance cited RT2 as one of the
best programs in the DFID Vietnam portfolio.

In parallel with the direct co-financing of components 1, 3 & 5 DFID supported
components 2 & 4 bilaterally. The parallel grant finance arrangement allowed
considerable flexibility in the support provided to MOT, allowing the technical assistance
to respond to MOT demand. This did however make coordination with the WB supported
components more difficult, especially as the implementation program was managed by
PMU 18 who had little contact or incentives to support institutional work in MOT.

The WB played an important coordinating role in ensuring strong links between MOT,
PMU 18 and DFID. A task which DFID recognized was not always easy. This was
particularly important for the program of surface trials where the construction
investments were managed by PMU 18, supported by DFID technical assistance. DFID
recognize that these contracts required considerable flexibility on the part of the World
Bank and that the Task Team, and in particular the Task Team Leader, provided very
high levels of assistance to ensure successful delivery of the trials program.

This is just one example of the close and collaborative relationship that developed
between the Bank and DFID over the course of RT2. This was also the case in the
handling of the PMU 18 corruption scandal. DFID policy at the time was to suspend
payments for RT2 until a joint investigation had taken place. Again this required
considerable flexibility on the part of the WB team to handle changes in implementation
arrangements in the run up to project closure. The proof that DFID valued the partnership
is evident in DFID's support for RT3. DFID finance is fully pooled with those of the
World Bank in RT3 to overcome the coordination problems identified in RT2.




9These figures relate to both the contribution to RT2 components 1, 3 & 5 supported through a Trust fund with the WB
and a bi-lateral contribution for components 2 & 4.



                                                         40

                         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

A case study of donor impact on political change at the grassroots in Vu Quang District,
Ha Tinh Province, Viet Nam, Susannah Hopkins Leisher, DFID, July 2003.

Budget Support Pilot: Success and experience, Final report for Provincial Transport
Support Program, DFID 2006.

Community participation in the Rural Transport Sector, Final Report. Mekong
Economics, Vietnam, January, 2005.

Country Partnership Strategy with the Socialist Republic Vietnam 2007-2011, WB, 2007.

Do Rural Infrastructure Investments Benefit the Poor?, Evaluating Linkages: A Global
View, A Focus on Vietnam, Jocelyn A. Songco, World Bank Policy Research Paper 2796,
2002

Government Spending and poverty Reduction in Vietnam, Shenggen Fan, Pham Lan
Huong, and Trinh Quang Long. A paper prepared for the World Bank by International
Food Policy Research Institute, Washington DC, and the Central Institute for Economic
Management, Hanoi, 2004

Impact Evaluation of a Rural Road Rehabilitation Project, Dominique van de Walle and
Dorothy-Jean Cratty, WB Draft Report, 2002.

Impact of Rural Roads on Poverty Reduction: A Case Study-Based Analysis, Asian
Development Bank: IES: REG 2002-15, 2002.

Institutional, incentive and capacity analysis of the Rural Transport sector, Transport
Development Strategy Institute, Ministry of Transport, Vietnam, 2005.

Provincial rural road handbook, (draft) MOT, 2005.

Role of the Private Sector in Rural Transport, Mekong Economics, 2005.

Rural Road Maintenance Handbook (For Commune Level), Transport Publishing House
(MOT) Ha Noi, 2003.

Rural Road Maintenance Handbook, MOT, 2003.

Rural Road Maintenance Training Modules, SEACAP, 2004, (www.vietnamtraining.net).

Rural Road Gravel Assessment Programme, SEACAP. Intech-TRL, Vietnam, 2005.

Rural Road Surfacing Research: Dissemination and Mainstreaming of Research. Intech-
TRL, Vietnam, Final Report (SEACAP 1), 2007.



                                            41

Rural Transport Strategy Study ­ TDSI/IT Transport 1999.

Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, 2006.

Story about rural roads, and For Sustainable Development, MOT (DVD), 2004.

Study on road network impacts on the poor, TDSI, 2004.

Synthesis Report on Preparation of Criteria for Selection of Eligible Provinces under the
Third Rural Transport Project. TDSI, 2004.

The Role Of Services In Rural Income: The Case Of Vietnam, M. Ataman Aksoy and
Aylin Isik-Dikmelik1,World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 4180, March 2007.

The Impact of Infrastructure Development on Rural Poverty Reduction in Vietnam, Theo
Ib Larsen, Huong Lan Pham and Martin Rama, The World Bank, Scaling Up Poverty
Reduction:   A    Global   Learning    Process   and    Conference,     Shanghai,  2004.

The Spatial Distribution Of Public Spending On Roads In Vietnam And Its Implications
Anil B. Deolalikar, 2001.

Third Rural Transport Project (RT 3) Consultancy Services for Technical Assistance for
Project Preparation Draft Final Report, Roughton International, MOT, 2005

Time Distance study in Vietnam (of rural transport), SEACAP, 2006.

Transport Sector Development Plan 2006-2010, Ministry of Transport, 2005

Transport Services Networks for the Poor ­ Final Report, ADB TA 4028-VIE, 2005.

Updating of the Rural Transport Development Strategy in Vietnam, TDSI, 2006.

Vietnam: Moving Forward - Achievements and Challenges in the Transport Sector,
Transport Sector Review, WB, Vietnam 1999.

Vietnam Advancing Rural Development - From Vision to Action, WB, 1998.

Who Gained from Vietnam's Boom in the 1990's. An Analysis of Poverty and Inequality
Trends. Paul Glewwe, Michele Gragnolati, Hasan Zaman. World Bank Policy Research
Working Paper 2275, 2000.




                                           42

                               Annex 10. Surfacing Trials
                            ($4.5 M Civil works, $ 2.4 M TA)
               Reducing the maintenance burden on local authorities10

Throughout RT2 Basic Access Roads were constructed with minimum cost surfaces
conforming to the current MOT standards. In general this led to the adoption of a gravel
surface. In many areas PDOTs were strongly opposed to the use of gravel as it was
perceived as a high maintenance, unsustainable surface. In response, in 2002, the
Ministry of Transport (MOT) requested studies of alternative surfaces for Rural Roads.
The aim of the program was to test whether other surfacing types could provide lower
whole life cost roads than gravel. The program was jointly supported by the MOT, WB
and DFID. The MOT provided technical guidance and provincial implementation support,
WB provided investment finance and DFID supported Technical Assistance.




          ROAD ENVIRONMENT FACTORS for Whole Life Costing and Design



                                   AVAILABLE MATERIALS
                                   Local Materials
                                   Surface/Paving Options
                                   Specifications




      NATURAL                                                           OPERATIONAL
      ENVIRONMENT                         OPTIMUM OR                    ENVIRONMENT
      Climate                            APPROPRIATE                    Construction Regime
      Hydrology                            PAVEMENT                     Maintenance Regime
      Terrain                                DESIGN                     Policies
      Subgrade                                                          Socio-economic factors




                                   ROAD TASK
                                   Traffic
                                   Axle Loads
                                   Standards


            Figure A10.1. Holistic approach to rural road pavement design




10(see http://portal.mt.gov.vn:8089/ruraltransport/rrsr/ for further details.)



                                               43

The program consisted of two main components:
      i)        The Rural Road Surfacing Research (RRSR) initiative:
      ii)       The complementary Rural Road Gravel Assessment Programme (RRGAP)
The research and dissemination activities of both components were carried out under the
co-ordination of the Ministry of Transport RRSR Steering Committee.


1. Rural Road Surfacing Research (Construction Investment $4.5 M, $2M TA)
The RRSR studies comprised two main phases, the first trials phase working in:

           Region                         Province
           Mekong Delta:                  Tien Giang, Dong Thap
           Central Coastal:               Thua Thien Hue, Da Nang

Construction of this initial research phase of trials was largely completed in 2005. The
second phase of longer length demonstration trials was completed in June 2006, in:

           Region                         Province
           Central Highlands:             Gia Lai, Dak Lak, Dak Nong,
           Red River Delta:               Hung Yen, Ninh Binh
           Northern Highlands:            Tuyen Quang, Ha Tinh, Quang Binh


These RRSR programmes trialled various combinations of the surfaces, bases and sub-
bases set out Table A10.1.

                         Table A10.1 - List of RRSR Options tested

SealsandLoadBearingSurfaces BasesandSub-Bases                ControlSectionsforComparison
Emulsionsandseal               Dryboundmacadam               Unsealedgravel
Emulsionchipseal               Natural gravel                Penetrationmacadam
Steel reinforcedconcrete       Armouredgravel                Unsealedwaterboundmacadam
Bambooreinforcedconcrete       Cementstabilisedsoil          Hotbitumenchipseal
Unreinforcedconcrete           Limestabilisedsoil            Sealedwaterboundmacadam
Engineeringclaybricks          Emulsionstabilisedsoil
Concretebricks                 Gradedquarry-run
Dressedstone                   Gradedcrushedstone
Cobblestones



Over 140 km of trial roads were completed in the programme from which a
representative 75 sections of 100mm to 200m lengths have been selected for ongoing
performance and whole-life-cost monitoring.




                                                 44

2. Rural Road Gravel Assessment Programme ($0.4 M TA)

Complementary investigations were carried out to investigate the gravel road
performance of RT2 roads. Initial studies revealed that although gravel has been the
commonly recommended surfacing in recent rural road rehabilitation programmes, there
was little available data on performance.

The main RRGAP investigations, at 766 road sites, identified constraints to the use of
gravel in most of the studied 16 RRGAP provinces. Overall gravel loss figures indicate
that around 58 percent of the surveyed sites are suffering unsustainable deterioration,
while 28 percent are losing material at twice the sustainable rate; Figure A10.2.

                Figure A10.2. Material Loss Summary at RRGAP Sites




Key factors contributing to the unsustainable deterioration, are:
        o High rainfall
        o Flooding
        o Poor quality out-of-specification materials
        o Lack of maintenance
        o Insufficient control on construction quality
        o Poor drainage arrangements


An analysis of the survey data indicated that general figures for regional unsealed road
performance could be derived. These regional figures have been developed based on
deterioration data for the differing terrain and related climatic characteristics; Table
A10.2. These basic figures can be adjusted for local variables relating to maintenance,
erosion, poor material and gradient conditions.




                                              45

                     Table A10.2. Terrain Based Gravel Loss

     Terrain Region         Low            Low        Inland Rolling        Hilly and
                        delta/coastal delta/coastal     Flat     small    mountainous
                         Subject to      Minimal                  hills
                            flood         flood

1. Basic Gravel Loss         40             25           30        20           35
(mm/year)



4. RRSR Outcomes
   · Unsealed gravel has been shown to be an unsustainable surface option in terms of
     performance and Whole-Life-Costs for many road environments and a wide range
     of alternatives have been trialled with better Whole-Life-Costs, more effective
     local resource use and reduced maintenance liabilities.

   · Initial Whole-Life-Cost analysis of unsealed road options demonstrates that
     maintenance costs can exceed construction costs in a relatively short life
     assessment period; in some situations by a factor in excess of 2; Figure A10.2.

   · New Cost Norms and Standard Technical Specifications have been developed for
     use by upcoming rural road programmes and for inclusion within Ministry of
     Transport standards.

   · A general Rural Road design approach has been developed which takes into
     account key road environment issues such as availability of local materials,
     maintenance regime, climate, and terrain;.

   · A Cost Model, see A10.3 has been developed to assist decision making on rural
     road surfacing options. This Cost Model has also demonstrated the following:-

         o Road maintenance is essential and economically justifiable;
         o The need to limit the application of gravel as a surfacing;
         o Paving at relatively low traffic flows can be justified; and
         o The need to limit maintenance liabilities, compatible with available
             resources.

   · A substantial and valuable database of rural road surfacing knowledge has been
     established as a source for further analysis and practical application to a wide
     range of Vietnamese road environments.

   · Unsealed road deterioration patterns have indicated that a procedure that identifies
     at-risk sections along a proposed road during the design phase and assigns more
     robust paving options to them could result in a more sustainable balance between
     low and high construction cost options within individual alignments.




                                         46

              Figure A10.3. Whole Life Cost components (Example shown - Light Traffic)


Mountains, Steep, Gravel, Short haul, NO Maintenance

           Delta, Gravel, Long haul, NO Maintenance

   Delta, Steel R Concrete, Long haul, Maintenance

   Delta, Steel R Concrete, Short haul, Maintenance

               Delta, Gravel, Long haul, Maintenance

           Delta, Gravel, Short haul, NO Maintenance

               Delta, DBST, Long haul, Maintenance

  Mountains, Steep, Gravel, Short haul, Maintenance

              Delta, Gravel, Short haul, Maintenance

           Mountains, DBST, Short haul, Maintenance

               Delta, DBST, Short haul, Maintenance


                                                    $0    $10,000     $20,000     $30,000  $40,000    $50,000     $60,000 $70,000

                                                                                  NPV over 15 years

                       NPV Construction costs        NPV Maintenance/ Reconstruction Costs NPV VOC / 500 Mcycles/day


      The second phase demonstration trials highlighted two further areas of concern for future
      rural road programmes:

             · Insufficient resources are made available at provincial level during the alignment
                  assessment and design stages of road projects.

             · There are significant shortcomings in site quality control and as-built quality
                  assessment procedures.




                                                                    47

