Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF023656
DFID TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
(Rural Transport II Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As Administrator of Grant Funds
Provided by the Government of United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
Dated 28 August 2000
GRANT NUMBER TF 023656
DFID TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 28 August 2000, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to an agreement dated February 24, 2000, between the 
Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), for the financing of 
the Rural Transport II Project (the Project), the Association agreed to provide to the 
Recipient a credit in the amount of SDR 74,700,000 (the Credit) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, and the Recipient declared 
its commitment to the objectives of the Project and agreed to carry out the Project in 
accordance with the terms of the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS (B) pursuant to an Exchange of Letters dated March 22, 2000 between the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, through its Department for 
International Development (DFID), and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (the 
Recipient), the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland has agreed to 
make a grant in an aggregate amount of sixteen million five hundred thousand Pounds 
Sterling to the Recipient to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(C) pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding dated 31 May 2000 between DFID and 
the Association (the DFID Memorandum of Understanding), the Association has agreed to 
administer on behalf of DFID the amount of twelve million two hundred thousand Pounds 
Page  2
Sterling (£ 12,200,000) (the DFID Grant) to be used to finance in part the costs of 
carrying out Parts A and CA of the Project (hereinafter the Activities) under the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended 
through October 6, 1999 with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10, 
(12), (13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h)(i), (j), (k) 
and (1), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (b), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the DFID Grant 
pursuant to the DFID Memorandum of Understanding referred to in 
Recital (C) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Association" shall also include the Association acting in 
its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower" wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement; .
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the DFID Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account;" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the DFID Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the DFID Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Activities;
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the DFID Grant Account shall be made in Pounds 
Sterling'; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the DFID Grant have been paid or are payable in 
Page  3
another currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the 
Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement. unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the term "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The DFID Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement. the DFID Grant in 
an amount of twelve million two hundred thousand Pounds Sterling (£ 12,200,000) 
equivalent.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the DFID Grant may be withdrawn from the DFID 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and 
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of currying out the Activities and to be 
financed out of the DFID Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Activities, open and maintain 
in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Administrator shall not be obliged to provide funds under the DFID 
Grant to the Recipient except to the extent the Administrator shall have received 
funds from DFID for this purpose.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Activities
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient shall carry out the Activities with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
management, engineering, resettlement, and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Activities.
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Activities in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
works and consultants' services required for the Activities and to be financed out of 
the DFID Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part 
thereof. 
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Page  4
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the DFID 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the DFID Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in para (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto or the Effective Date of the Development Credit Agreement, whichever is 
later.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the DFID Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder, provided, however, that if the Development Credit Agreement 
terminates prior to the termination of this Agreement, or the DFID Memorandum of 
Understanding terminates prior to the termination of this Agreement, this Agreement 
shall terminate automatically and shall cease to have any further force or effect.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address:
Telex:
VIETBANK 412248 
NHTW-VT
Page  5
Hanoi
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street. N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
 64145 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the DFID Grant
By /s/
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the DFID Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
DFID Grant, the allocation of the amount of the DFID Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
   Amount of the 
   % of
DFID Grant Allocated 
Expenditures
(Expressed in Pounds)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under Part
10,000,000
95%
C.1 of the Project for Ha
Tinh, Quang Binh,
Quang Nam and Quang
Tri Provinces
(2)
Consultant's services
 2,200,000
100%
.
under Part A of the
Project
TOTAL
12,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the DFID Grant Account to be made 
Page  6
on the basis of statements of expenditure, for expenditures for: (a) all works under 
contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each; (b) services provided by 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) 
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories I and 2 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the DFID Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph (3) a of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to US$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the DFID Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstandings special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 3,000,000 Pounds Sterling. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the DFID Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in  respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request the Administrator shall, on behalf 
of the Recipient, withdraw from the DFID Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the DFID Grant Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
 For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment- was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account.
Page  7
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the DFID Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, 
within the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (i) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the DFID Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions: or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the DFID Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section3.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the DFID Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the DFID Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special ''Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, 
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the DFID Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
