Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3306 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Transport II Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 24, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3306 VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 24 , 2000, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower expects to receive from the United Kingdom, Department for  
International Development (DFID), a grant (the DFID Grant) in an aggregate principal 
amount of  sixteen million five hundred thousand Sterling Pounds (£16,500,000) to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and DFID (the DFID Grant Agreement) providing 
therein for: (a) an amount out of the proceeds of the DFID Grant  of four million two 
hundred thousand Sterling Pounds (£4,200,000) to be provided directly by DFID to the 
Borrower to assist in financing Parts B, D and E of the Project; and (b) an aggregate 
amount of twelve million three hundred thousand Sterling Pounds (£12,300,000) to be 
provided to the Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Association as administrator of those grant 
funds received from DFID (the DFID Trust Fund Grant Agreement), and to be earmarked as 
follows: (i) an amount out of the DFID Grant of  two million three hundred thousand 
Sterling Pounds (£2,300,000) to assist in financing the consultants’ services under 
Part A of the Project; and (ii) an amount out of the DFID Grant of ten million 
Sterling Pounds (£10,000,000) to assist in financing Part C.1 of the Project in the 
Page  2
Project Provinces of Ha Tinh, Quang Binh, Quang Nam and Quang Tri; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in this Agreement:
(a)    "Affected Person"  means a person who on account of  the execution of  
the Project, had or would have his or her: (i) right, title or interest in any 
property, or interest in or right to use any land (including premises, agricultural 
and grazing land), or right in annual or perennial crops and trees or any other fixed 
or movable assets, acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (ii) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or 
permanently, resulting in an involuntary loss of shelter, loss of productive assets or 
access to productive assets, including natural resources, or loss of income or means 
of livelihood, thereby adversely affecting the person’s standard of living, and 
"Affected Persons" means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Affected Person.
(b)
"Ethnic Minorities" means social groups disadvantaged in the development 
process and with social and cultural identity distinct from those which constitute the 
predominant ethnic group in Vietnam.
(c)
"MOT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport, and any successor 
thereto.
(d)
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual for carrying out  Part 
C of the Project, including implementation procedures and guidelines and road 
selection criteria, satisfactory to the Association, and approved by MOT’s Decision 
No. 3582/GTVT-KHDT dated October 15, 1999.
(e)
“Project Implementation Division-1” and the acronym “PID-1” mean the 
Division established within PMU-18 pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement for Credit No. 2929-VN (Rural Transport 
Project) entered into between the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the Association 
dated January 6, 1997.
(f)
“Provincial Department of Transport” and the acronym "PDOT" mean the 
Department established by each of the Provincial People’s Committee responsible for 
transport services and infrastructure in the respective Province.
(g)
"Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation" 
means the policy adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Prime Minister’s Decision No. 
786/CP-CN dated July 29, 1999, and MOT’s Decision No. 2088/1999/QD-BGTVT dated August 
17, 1999,  satisfactory to the Association, to compensate, resettle and rehabilitate 
Affected Persons.
(h)
“PMU-18” means the project management unit established within MOT by 
Decisions Nos. 1675 QD/TCCB-LD and 387 QD/TCCB-LD dated August 23, 1993 and March 25, 
1994, respectively, responsible, inter alia, to administer road works under the 
Project.
(i)
"Project Implementation Division" and the acronym "PID" mean the unit 
established in accordance with the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 
Page  3
to this Agreement.
(j)
"Project Provinces" means the provinces of the Borrower listed in the 
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(l)
“Provincial People’s Committees” means, collectively, the Local 
Governments of the Project Provinces at the Provincial level, and “Provincial People’s 
Committee” means any one of the Provincial People’s Committees in the Project 
Provinces.
(m)
"RAP" means a Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan, satisfactory 
to the Association, for carrying out the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation 
of each Affected Person and to be prepared by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such plan may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(n)
“RTU” means the unit established within MOT pursuant to paragraph 1(b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement for purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project.
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy four million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR74,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
Page  4
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2010 and ending July 15, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2019 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOT, PMU18 and the PDOTs with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, resettlement 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Page  5
Borrower hereby undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit earmarked from time to time 
under Category 1 of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be made available to the 
Project Provinces in a timely manner and pursuant to their respective roads 
rehabilitation annual work programs, as approved by the Association pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and  
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Page  6
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project, 
including usage of a computerized  accounting system, satisfactory to the Association, 
and related staff training, in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 
31, 2000, or such later date as Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project , both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, and furnish to the Association not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for 
such period satisfactory to the Association. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events is specified, namely: 
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID Grant or any 
other grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the agreement providing 
therefor, or (B) any such loan shall have become 
due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement; 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (a)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
Page  7
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  that the DFID Grant Agreement shall have been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and 
(b)
that the RTU has been established pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 
1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the provisions of the 
Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation are legally 
valid and enforceable in accordance with Vietnamese laws.  
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Governor or any of the Deputy Governors of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address: 
Telex:
412248
NHTWVT
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ Le Duc Thuy
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
 Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in SDR
Expenditures 
Category
   Equivalent)
To be Financed
(1)
Civil works under
   68,300,000
95%
Part C.1 of the Project
(except for works in
Ha Tinh, Quang Binh,
Quang Nam and
Quang Tri Provinces)
(2)
Goods under Part A
   2,090,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and
85% of local expen-
ditures for other 
items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants' services
     720,000
100%
under Part C of the
Project, and consultants'
Services and training
under Part A of the Project
(4)
Unallocated
  3,590,000
TOTAL
 74,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b)
payments for expenditures in respect of Category 1  for each Project 
Province unless: 
(i)
an accountant has been retained pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and 
(ii)
(A) an inventory and condition survey of existing rural roads, and 
Page  9
(B) a basic 
roads access needs report on the respective Province is 
furnished to the 
Association pursuant to paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) all goods under 
contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent each; 
(b)
all works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; 
(c)
services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; 
(d)
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(e)
training; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to: (a) improve and 
upgrade access to rural communities to markets, off farm economic opportunities and 
social services; (b) develop central and provincial capacity to improve and sustain 
the level of service of the Borrower’s rural transport road network; and (c) encourage 
development of local contractors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
PART A:
Institutional Development to  PMU18 and PDOTs
Strengthening the capacity of the PMU18 and Provincial Department of Transport  
in planning, budgeting, implementing and monitoring rural roads rehabilitation 
programs, including development of an inventory of rural roads, and provision of 
consultants’ services, staff training, vehicles, motor-bikes and office equipment.
PART B:
Institutional Development to MOT
Strengthening the capacity of MOT to:  (a) formulate and implement rural road 
transport policy and strategy; and  (b) streamline technical and financial monitoring 
and supervision of rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance programs, including 
provision of consultants’ services, staff training, vehicles and office equipment.
PART C:
Rural Access Roads Rehabilitation
1.
Rehabilitation and improvement of selected Communal, District and Provincial 
rural roads in the Project Provinces, including bridges therein, and provision of 
consultants’ services therefor.
2.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of the Affected Persons under Part C.1 of the 
Project.
PART D:
Rural Road Maintenance
Strengthening the capacity of  PDOT’s,  Districts and Communes  in rural roads, 
maintenance planning and implementation, including development of  maintenance 
planning and implementing guidelines, and the provision of  staff training, workshops 
and consultants’ services therefor.
PART E:
Development of Domestic Contractors
Strengthening the capacity of domestic road contractors in the execution of road 
rehabilitation and maintenance contracts through the provision of training, inter 
Page  10
alia, in project management, labor-based maintenance, cost accounting and contract 
bidding and management.
*      *     *      *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Provinces
 1.
Tuyen Quang
 2. Quang Ninh
 3. Hai Duong
 4. Hung Yen
 5. Thai Binh
 6. Ha Tay
 7. Nam Dinh
 8. Ha Nam
 9. Ninh Binh 
10. Thua Thien Hue 
11. Lam Dong 
12. Tay Ninh 
13. Dong Nai 
14. Ba Ria-Vung Tau 
15. Binh Duong 
16. Long An 
17. Tien Giang 
18. Dong Thap 
19. Vinh Long 
20. An Giang 
21. Can Tho 
22. Kien Giang 
23. Bac Ninh 
24. Khanh Hoa 
25. Gia Lai 
26. Lai Chau 
27. Binh Thuan 
28. Ca Mau 
29. Da Nang 
30. Ninh Thuan 
31. Binh Phuoc 
32. Bac Lieu 
33. Vinh Phuc 
34. Thanh Hoa 
35. Dak Lak 
36. Nghe An 
37. Ha Tinh 
38. Quang Binh
39. Quang Nam 
40. Quang Tri
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines) and (b) the following provisions of this 
Section I.
Page  11
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles may be procured from the United Nations Office of Procurement Services 
(UNOPS) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $68,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $36,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1  \0cof Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
Page  12
shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or more; and (iii) the first contract for works to be procured 
by each Project Province in each Fiscal Year and to be awarded under National 
Competitive Bidding and Small Works, respectively, regardless of their amounts. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1. 
Single Source Selection
Services for the independent monitoring of resettlement activities and 
development of Ethnic Minorities Development Plans under paragraphs 8 and 9 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning  
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
Page  13
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project the 
Project Implementation Division-1 headed by a Division Manager with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association, and assigned with such functions, 
responsibilities and funds, satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff 
in adequate numbers, as shall be required for coordinating, monitoring and supervising 
the implementation of the Project; and
(b)
establish and thereafter maintain a rural transport unit (RTU) within 
MOT, headed by a qualified and experienced officer, and assigned with such functions, 
responsibilities and funds, satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff 
in adequate numbers, as shall be required for coordinating, monitoring and supervising 
the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the Provincial People’s Committee of the Project 
Provinces to  maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project the 
PDOTs, each headed by a qualified and experienced Director, and assigned with such 
functions, responsibilities, funds and competent staff in adequate numbers, including 
an accountant with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, as 
shall be required for carrying out Parts C and D of the Project within their 
respective Provinces.
3.
The Borrower undertakes not to amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual 
or any provision therein without the prior concurrence of the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that PMU-18 and each of 
the PDOTs shall carry out its respective activities under the Project and, to that 
end, shall, on a timely manner and in accordance with the Operational Manual, make 
available to PMU-18 and each of the PDOTs the proceeds of the Credit and other funds 
allocated for such purposes.
B.
Selection of Roads under Part C of the Project
5.
(a)
The Borrower shall, by August 31 in each year, commencing on August 31, 
2000, furnish to the Association for its concurrence, a proposed annual work program 
and budget for Project activities in the following calendar year, including, a 
proposed list of roads and segments of roads to be rehabilitated and improved under 
Part C.1 of the Project in each Project Province; provided, however, that roads in 
forest reserved areas or traversing forest reserved areas or buffer zones of forest 
areas shall not form part of any annual work program; provided, further, that the 
proposed annual work program and budget for Project activities in the calendar year 
2000 shall be submitted by March 31, 2000.
(b)
For each such road and segments of roads, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association for its concurrence:
(i)
for roads or segments of roads giving  rise to Affected Persons, a 
socio-  
economic survey  of the Affected Persons and a 
time-bound action plan for 
asset acquisition, compensation, 
resettlement and rehabilitation or a RAP, 
pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraphs 7(b)(i) and (ii) of this Schedule, 
Page  14
respectively; 
(ii)
for roads or segments of roads within areas occupied by Ethnic 
Minorities 
pursuant to paragraph 9 of this Schedule, an Ethnic 
Minorities development 
plan; and
(iii)
an environmental screening and proposed mitigating measures for 
potential 
environmental impacts and time-bound action plan 
therefor, if needed.
(c)
Thereafter, the Borrower shall implement such annual work programs, 
time-bound action plans and RAP, as the case may be, and development plan(s), as so 
approved, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association, for its review and 
comments, for each Project Province: (a) an inventory and condition survey of existing 
rural roads; and (b) a basic roads access needs report on the respective Province and, 
thereafter, implement the findings of such report in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
C.
Resettlement and Ethnic Minorities 
7.
(a)
For purposes of carrying out Part C.2 of the Project the Borrower shall, 
in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association, apply the Policy Framework 
for Land Acquisition, Compensation and Rehabilitation;
(b)
To that end, the Borrower shall:
(i)
for those roads or segments of roads giving rise to Affected 
Persons in 
numbers less than one hundred fifty (150), prepare 
and furnish to the 
Association for its approval a socio-economic 
survey of the Affected Persons 
together with a time-bound action plan 
and estimated costs for asset 
acquisition of, compensation to, 
and resettlement and rehabilitation of, 
Affected Persons 
and, thereafter, carry out such time-bound action plan as so 
approved;
(ii)
for those roads or segments of roads giving rise to Affected 
Persons in 
numbers of one hundred fifty (150) or more, prepare 
and thereafter furnish to 
the Association for its approval a RAP and, 
thereafter, adopt and implement 
the RAP as so approved; and
(iii)
before the commencement of works on road or segments of roads 
giving rise to 
Affected Persons, complete the provision of asset 
acquisition of, compensation 
to, and resettlement and rehabilitation 
of, Affected Persons pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraphs 7(b)(i) 
or 7(b)(ii) of this Schedule, as the case may 
be.
8.
The Borrower shall by March 31, 2000,  under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association and pursuant to paragraph 1, Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, retain an independent agency to:
(i)
undertake the external monitoring and supervision of the 
implementation of 
Part C.2 of the Project; 
(ii)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association annual 
monitoring 
reports thereof, the first of such reports to be 
furnished by August 31, 2001; 
provided, however, that an interim 
report covering the period between the date 
of this Agreement and July 
31, 2000 shall be furnished by August 31, 2000; and
(iii)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association a final 
evaluation 
report on completion of Part C.2 of the Project.
9.
(a)
The Borrower shall design and implement the respective Ethnic Minorities 
Development Plan referred to in paragraph 5(b)(ii) of this Schedule to provide for the 
informed participation of, and consultation with, communities with Ethnic Minorities, 
Page  15
to ensure that the design and implementation thereafter of the roads or segments of 
roads under Part C.1 of the Project, and the asset acquisition of, and provision of 
compensation to, and resettlement and rehabilitation measures to, the members of such 
Ethnic Minorities community adequately address the needs and cultural preferences of 
such communities. 
(b)
Each development plan under paragraph 5(b)(ii) of this Schedule shall 
include provisions to retain, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, an independent monitoring agency with qualified and experienced staff to:  
(i)
undertake the external monitoring and supervision of the 
implementation of the 
said development plan; 
(ii)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association semiannual 
monitoring 
reports thereof; provided, however, that an interim report 
covering the period 
between the date of this Agreement and July 
31, 2000 shall be furnished by 
August 31, 2000; and 
(iii)
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association a final 
evaluation 
report on completion of the implementation of each 
such development plan.
D.
Training
10.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the training under the Project in accordance 
with training programs acceptable to the Association; and (b) to that end, by no later 
than August 31 of each year, commencing August 31, 2000, furnish to the Association 
for its review and comments a proposed time-bound action plan for each such training 
program for the forthcoming Borrower's fiscal year, and thereafter, implement such 
time-bound action plan taking into account the Association's comments; provided, 
however, that the proposed time-bound action plan for the training program for 
calendar year 2000 shall be submitted by March 31, 2000.
E.
Monitoring and Evaluation
11.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain operational procedures, satisfactory 
to the Association, to adequately monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Association, progress in the carrying out of the Project, including, 
without limitation, the implementation of the Operational Manual, the carrying out of 
Part C.2 of the Project, and the impact of the Project on the various communities in 
the Project Provinces, in particular those with Ethnic Minorities.
12.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing March 
31, 2000, furnish to the Association semi-annual reports on the implementation of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association, including recommendations of actions to be 
undertaken to further achieve the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
by September 30, 2001, undertake a mid-term review with the Association 
to assess the overall implementation of the Project and any proposed measures 
resulting from the monitoring and evaluation  activities  carried  out by the Borrower 
pursuant to  the provisions of paragraph 11 of this Schedule.  For such purposes the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association by August 31, 2001, a 
comprehensive report of the activities undertaken under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  16
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $ 4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account allocated to the eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for withdrawals under said Categories, shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 15,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  17
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project related to that Special Account, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for that Special 
Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special Account 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to 
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
