                                                                           36791

                           The InspectionPanel


                      Reportand Recommendation
                                       on
                          Requestfor Inspection



                     Re:Requestfor Inspection
          GHANA: West African Gas PipelineProject
                  (IDA Guarantee No. B-006-0-GH)

1.  On April 27, 2006, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
    Inspection (the "Request"), dated the same day, related to the Ghana: West
   African Gas Pipeline Project (the "Project"). The Request was submittedby the
   Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum o f the West African Gas Pipeline Project
   (the "Association") through their representatives from the Olorunda Local
   Government Area o f Lagos State, Nigeria. The Request was submitted on
   behalf o f the members o f the Association, which i s composed o f 12
   communities that will be affected by the Project around the Badagry axis, in
   Lagos State, southwest Nigeria. These communities are Ajido, Imeke
   Agemowo, Araromi Ale, Idaghe Iyesi, Ilogbo Eremiand Igbesa, Okoomi, Itori,
   OloydAbiola, Arobieye, Igboliye and Egushi Benja. The Request includes four
   Annexes, including an Annex with signatures of 44 persons from different
   affected communities and two letters o f consent from families who support the
   Request. (The Requestfor Inspectionis attachedto this Report as Annex I)

2. Duringthe Panel's eligibility visit to Nigeria in early June, some Requesters
   raised a new concern with the Panel, namely that as o f some weeks ago
   fishermen were no longer able to catch many fish inthe area between Badagry
   and Tafi villages on the coast, allegedly because o f severe pollution which
   interfered with the use o f their fishing nets. They indicated that this was an
   especially serious concern, because many people in the area depended upon
   fisheries for a livelihood. They believed that it might be caused by the recent
   construction o f the gas pipeline inthe area.

3. On June 9, 2006, during the Panel's visit to Ghana, the Panel received a letter,
   dated the same day, from Friends of the EarthGhana ("FOE-GH'), signed by its
   Director The0 Anderson (Annex 111). In this letter, FOE-GHexpressed its
   support for the Request submitted by the Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum
   o f the West African Gas Pipeline Project and asked to be added to the Request
   for Inspection(the "FOE-GHsubmission").




                                       1

     4.      On June 14, 2006, the Panel notified the Regional Vice-president of the new
            concerns about fishing activities raised withthe Panel during the Panel's visit to
            Nigeria and of the FOE-GHletter. The Panel has added both items to the
            processingofthe existing Request.

 A. The Project

     Project Objectives

     5.     The Project aims to contribute to, inter alia, "improving the competitivenessof
            the energy sectors in Ghana, Benin, and Togo by promoting the use of cheaper
            and environmentally cleaner gasfrom Nigeria in lieu of solid and liquid fuels
            for power generation and other industrial, commercial uses, and diversibing
            energy supply sources.'" In its response, Management specifies that "the
            project was designed to substitute inexpensive and environmentally friendly
            natural gasfrom Nigeriafor expensivealternatefuels ..."2

     6.     Management expects that the Project will promote regional integration and
            bring economic benefits including "significant spillover implications for
            regional de~elopment."~       Italso anticipatesthat the Project will diminishoverall
            emissions of greenhouse gases andair pollutants.

    Project Components

     7.     According to the PAD, the Project includes the following elements: (1) a new
            pipeline system, the West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP), which will transport           .
            natural gas from Nigeria to Ghana, Togo and Benin; (2) spurs to provide gas to
            power generating units in Ghana, Benin, and Togo; (3) conversion of existing
            power generating units to gas; and (4) as needed, additional compression
            investments4

     8.     Under the Project, gas will be delivered from Nigeria via a 678 kilometer
            pipeline across southwestern Nigeria to a terminal point in Takoradi, Ghana.
            Fifty-eight kilometers of pipeline and other ancillary facilities are to be
            constructed by the West African Gas Pipeline Company (WAPCo) in
            southwesternNigeria. InNigeria, the pipeline will be constructed on the lands




'Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a ProposedIDA Partial Risk Guaranteeinthe Amount o fUS$50
Million for Ghanaand a ProposedMIGA Guaranteeinthe Amount of US$75 Million for SponsorsEquity
to the West African Gas Pipeline Project, November 2,2004, p. 10.
 BankManagementResponseto Requestfor InspectionPanel ofthe Ghana: West African Gas Pipeline
Project (IDA GuaranteeNo. B-006-0-GH) [hereinafter "Management Response"], p. 2,T 7.
 Management Response, T 15.
 PAD, p. 11-12.


                                                   2

            o f 23 communities with an overall population o f 140,000, including the 12
            communities makingthis Request.'

     9.     The     development,       financing,   construction,    ownership,      operation     and
            maintenance of the Project was agreed in an International Project Agreement
            dated May 22, 2003, between the Republic of Benin, the Federal Republic o f
            Nigeria, the Republic o f Togo, the Republic o f Ghana, and WAPCo. The
            International Project Agreement was negotiated pursuant to Article VI1 o f the
            Treaty on the West African Gas Pipeline Project between the Republic o f
            Benin, the Republic o f Ghana, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and the
            Republic o f Togo, signedon January 31,2003.

     10. The Project is implemented by the special purpose company WAPCo. Current
            shareholders o f WAPCo include Shell, Chevron, Nigerian National Petroleum
            Corporation (NNPC). Volta River Authority (VRA) o f Ghana, BenGaz o f
            Benin, and SotoGaz o f Togo.6

     11. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) states that `(the World Bank Group
            participation (IDA and MIGA) will provide Jinancial risk mitigation to allow
            the proposed Project to proceed, support the implementation of regional and
            nationalframeworks and actions required to kick start the development of gas
            markets in Ghana, Benin, and Togo, and more broadly will provide comfort to
            all the stakeholders regarding Project preparation and implementation
             standard^."^ For these purposes IDA has entered into Project          Agreements with
            WAPCo and N-Gas Limited, respectively, that contain several covenants,
            representations and warranties that both WAPCo and N-Gas "have acted and
            will continue to act in compliance with applicable World Bank Environmental
            and Social Safeguard Policies and anti-corruption policies."

B. Financing

    12. The entire Project is estimated to cost about US$ 590 milli~n.~                           The
            InternationalDevelopmentAssociation (IDA)" has provideda guarantee, inthe
            amount of US$ 50 million, for certain obligations o f the Republic o f Ghana
           related to the purchase o f natural gas. The guarantee was approved on
           November 23, 2004, and the Guarantee Agreement became effective on
           December 31, 2004. Also, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency



 WAPCo's participation inthe project is provided inthe WAPCo ShareholderAgreement ofMay 19,
2003, entered into by WAPCo, ChevronTexaco West Africa Gas PipelineCompany Ltd., Nigerian
National Power Corporation, Shell OverseasHoldings Limitedand TakoradiPower Company Limited.
 Collectivelythey are referredto as "the sponsors".
 PAD, p. 6.
 PAD, p. 9. BothProjectAgreements were signed on December 15,2004.
 PAD p. 13. Management Response(p. 4 T[ 13) statesthat the sponsors currently estimatethe construction
costs ofthe pipeline, excludingother WAPCo costs, to be about US$495 million.
lo
 IDA is also referredto as the "Bank".

             (MIGA) has provided a US$ 75 million political risk guarantee to WAPCo in
            relationto the construction o fthe pipelineand associatedfacilities."

 C.The Request

     I.Claims raised by the IfesowapoHost CommunitiesForum of the West
         African Gas PipelineProject

     13.    The Requesters believe that the Project, as it now stands, will cause irreparable
            damage to their land and destroy the livelihoods o f their communities. They
            state that the Bank didnot comply with a number of its policies andprocedures,
            including OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement,                    OP/BP 4.01 on
            Environmental Assessment, OP/BP 10.04 on Economic Evaluation o f
            InvestmentOperations, andOPBP 13-05onProject Supervision.

    EnvironmentalAssessment

     14.    According to the Requesters, the Bank failed to follow its policies and
           procedures in the preparation o f the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
            They state that, in contravention o f Bank policies, "the overwhelming majority
           of our people were not consulted during the preparation of the Environmental
           Impact Assessment...     lJf2 The Requesters state that although WAPCo holds
           periodic meetings with the landowners on the issue on compensation, many of
           the affected people in their communities are excluded because they are not
           considered landowners. In the Requester's opinion, public consultation should
           have included non-land owners because "the pipeline wouldpass very close to
           our homes, through routes our children take to their schools, routes our womm
           take to their farms and to ourfishing grounds."13Inthe Requesters' view, this
           makes the non-landowners "stakeholdersfy who should be included in
           consultations. They claim that they were not consulted untila Bankteam visited
           Badagry on October 30,2004.

     15.   The Requesters also assert that they didnot have access to the EIA. When they
           visited the Badagry and Olorunda local council secretariats inJanuary 2004 to
           comment on the EIA, the EIA was not available. They understand that the EIA
           i s now available on the internet, but assert that the EIA i s still difficult to access
           and understand, given the volume o f the document, the lack o f internet access
           intheir area andthe low literacy level intheir community. The Requesters add
           that "it would have been helpful ifrelevantportions of the large documentshad
           been reproduced in Yoruba, the language commonly used in our communities,



`IWAPCo is also the beneficiaryof similar insurancestructuresfrom Zurich(with reinsurancefrom OPIC)
to backthe paymentobligations ofthe Governmentsof Ghana, Togo andBenin. ManagementResponse, fi
13.
l2Request, p. 5.
l3Request, p. 6.


                                                  4

             and distributed to impacted c~mmunities."`~ They claim that a translation of the
             Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) into Yoruba does not exist, although land
             acquisition has beencompleted.

     16.     The Requesters claim that the scope ofthe EIA was too narrow and shouldhave
             included the existing Escravos-Lagos Pipeline ("ELPS") to which the West
             Aii-ican Gas Pipeline will be linked. They consider the ELPS to be unsafe
             because o f its history of poor maintenance and accidents, including fatal gas
             explosions and leaks that have occurred in other areas of Nigeria. They are
            worried that the ELPS "will source the WAGP~ipeline."~'    Because of that link,
            the Requesters believe that an EIA for the ELPS i s necessary to determine the
            Project's environmental impacts. The Requesters fear that "the unsafe state of
             the Escravos-LagosPipeline implies a serious dangerfor the safety of the West
            African GasPipeline and all who live in itsproximity."I6Inaddition, they state
            that they "have been told that there is an emergency response and contingency
            plan to minimize impacts of disasters, but [they] ... are totally unaware of its
            content or adequacy."I7

    InvoluntaryResettlementandPovertyReduction

     17.    The Requesters also claim that the Bank has not complied with its policy on
            involuntary resettlement (OPBP 4.12). They fear that the Project will
            negatively impact their livelihoods and provide inadequate compensation. They
            are convinced that the Project will not restore or improve their standards o f
            living.

     18.    The Requesters are especially concerned about the amount of compensation
            they received for the plots of land acquired for the Project. According to the
            Requesters, members o f their communities were assured that        "  `adequate
            compensation' would be paid on the basis of rates established by the Nigerian
            government and that these rates would befurther increased to reflect inflation
            adjustment and restoration of lost incomes."      They state that, in hindsight,
            they received too little information on the exact amount of Compensationthey
            would receive for each plot of land acquired under the Project. They further
            claim that "[Uhere were am.uances from project sponsors that the rates for
            lease of land in our communities set by the Nigerian government would not be
            used in computing the quantum of compensation to be paid.           But to our
            surprise, when the compensationswere eventuallypaid, the rates were in most
            cases less than 4% of the market rate."




l4 Request, p. 6.
l5Request, p. 6.
l6 Request, p. 7.
   Request, p. 7.
   Request, p. 3.
l9 Request, p.4.


                                              5

    19. The Requesters indicate that there were no "binding contractual relations
            between individual landowners and WAPCO' 2o They assert that the payment
                                                              J .
            of compensation was left to the discretion o f the Project sponsors, resulting in
           payment of Compensationonly for the actual crops on the affected land and not
            for the landor loss o f future profits from their activities on the land.

   20.     The Requesters also fear that they will not only lose their lands, which are one
           o f their means of livelihoods, but that they will also have no prospect o f
           alternative long-term employment. As a result, they believe that the people o f
           their communities will become fbrther impoverished. They claim that
           employment benefits would only be of a temporary nature during the
           construction of the pipeline. The Requesters assert that they are not aware o f
           mechanisms that will ensure that qualified persons from their communities are
           trained to secure long-term employment, although they have submitted names
           o f individuals from their communities qualified in various fields, such as
           engineering.

   Consultation and Disclosure

   21.     The Requesters claim that many of the stakeholders did not have access to
           information about the Project and that the members o f the communities could
           not understandthe informationthat was provided. They state that at the time the
           compensation was paid, many o f them were not aware o f the criteria that were
           used for compensation. The Requesters believe that relevant information was
           withhelddeliberately inorder to garner community support for the Project.

   22.     Moreover, the Requesters state that the limited consultations that were held
           were "a recipefor crisis and violence in our communities.             They claim that
           the "community members haveyet to resolve the bitterness and bickering that
           was the hall mark of the selective consultations which tookplace with n few
           landowners, while other land users and impacted persons were ignored. ')22
           Landowners and other stakeholders were unable to agree over who should be
           eligible to receive and keep compensation. The Requesters believe that the
           Project sponsors deliberately tried to incite tensions as part o f a strategy to
           divide the community. The Requesters indicate that the Project and the
           insufficient information about the amount o f compensation paid, has also
           caused serious social conflicts within families.

  Economic Evaluation

   23.     The Requesters also question the economic evaluation of the Project and
           believe that it will not promote the "holistic development in our community and
           even in our country as it ispremised on thefalse assumption that it will reduce


2oRequest, p. 4.
21Request, p. 5.
22Request, p. 5.


                                                6

           the flaring of associated gas in Nigeria."23 They cite Bank estimates that
           indicate that flaring gas instead o f capturing it costs Nigeria about US$ 2.5
           billion per year. Furthermore, they believe that flaring contributes to the
           destruction o f the lands and rivers, to serious health problems, and to great
           environmental harm.

    24.    The Requesters assert that while the Project proponents claim that associated
           gas (which is normally being flared) will be the source for the pipeline, they
           have obtained information demonstrating that this assertion is false. They claim
           that the fields inthe Western Niger Delta where the gas for the Project will be
           sourced "are generally non-associated gas fields. This means additional gas
           would be drilled instead.'y24The Requesters claim that the Project design does
           not compellingly demonstrate that any amount o f associated gas would run
           through the pipeline. As a result, the Requesters deem it "inappropriate" for the
           Bank to support the Project, because it would allow the Project sponsors to
           "continue the unwarranted degradation of our environment and livelihoods." 25

   25.     Inthis respect, the Requestersbelieve that the Bank failedto consider Nigeria's
           plan to double oil output by 2010, which they believe will inevitably lead to the
           productiono f more associated gas. The Requesters claim that without assurance
           that the Project will only use associated (otherwise flared) gas rather than less-
           costly non-associated gas, the Bank will "set a precedent oj.looking solely at
           profit mar ins, rather than the best development interest of the people of this
           country.      4
                    ' j 2




   Supervision

   26.     Moreover, the Requesters claim that Management has failed to comply with the
           Bank's policies on supervision. They state that they "consider the problems
           with theproject sponsors ... a result of the World Bank's ailure to adequately
           supervise theproject s preparation and implementation."2   .f

   27.     The Requesters therefore request that the Panel recommend an investigationto
           the BoardofExecutiveDirectors.

   28.     In its Notice of Registration, the Panel noted that the above claims may
           constitute violations by the Bank o f various provisions o f the following
           operational Policies and Procedures:

   OP/BP 4.01                          EnvironmentalAssessment
   OPBP 4.12                           Involuntary Resettlement


23Request, p. 7.
24Request, p. 8.
25Request, p. 8.
26Request, p. 8.
  Request, p. 3.


                                              7

     OD 4.15                             Poverty Reduction
     OP/ BP 10.04                        Economic Evaluationof Investment
                                         Operations
     OD/OP/BP 13.05                      Project Supervision
     World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information

    11.ClaimsRaisedby Friendsof the EarthGhana

    29, The FOE-GHSubmission not only supports the original Request for Inspection
            but raises concerns about consultation,          safety and adverse livelihood
            consequences for fishermen in Ghana as a result o f the construction and
            operation of the pipeline. While FOE-GHacknowledges the "contribution of
            energy development to poverty alleviation on the West Africa sub-region '',28 it
           raises a variety o f issues that it considers critical to the implementation o f the
           Project. One of its main concerns is the Project's "lack of transparen~y.''~~  The
            Submission alleges that while the importance o f consultation was recognized in
           the design of the Project, the issue o f consultation was not handled adequately
           inpractice.

    30.    The Submission states that Ghana's Energy Commission has raised concerns
           about the Projects' long term economic benefit to Ghana and that FOE-GH
           believes that these concerns have not been taken into account in the
           consultation process. The NGO i s worried that these concerns will not be
           adequately addressedinthe future and states that the Bank has already indicated
           its unwillingness to consider these concerns. According to the Submission, the
           economic and financial analysis o f the Project was never disclosed, though this
           was initially promised.

    31.    Moreover, while the EIA identified the importance of an emergency response
           system, FOE-GHquestions whether local people will be able to utilize and
           understand such a system in the case o f an accident. FOE-GHcites several
           instances o f oil and gas related accidents and doubts that Ghana has the
           capacity to respond to such accidents.

    32.    FOE-GHstresses that `Yshing is a critical source of livelihoodfor a signlJicant
           proportion of Ghanas pop~lation."~~       While itrecognizes that the plannedroute
           of the pipeline does not pass sensitive fisheries ecosystems, it believes that the
           Project sponsors should assess the pipelines' impacts on fisheries and
           livelihoods. The Submission states that the Bank should ensure that continued
           impact assessments are conducted to avoid any negative Project impacts on
           livelihoods and the fisheries ecosystem. Considering the migratory tendencies
           o f fishermen, FOE-GHclaims that local consultations should include all
           communities along the coastline.


28Letter submitted byFOE-GH, datedJune 9,2006, p. 1.
29Letter submitted by FOE-GH, datedJune 9,2006, p. 1.
30Letter submitted by FOE-GH, datedJune 9,2006, p. 2.


                                                8

 D.ManagementResponse

     33.    On June 6,2006, Management submitted its Responseto the Request3' (Annex
            11) At the time of its Response, the Panelhad only receivedthe initial Request,
            butwas not aware ofthe additional environmentalissue relatedto pollution and
            fisheries in Nigeria or of the letter from FOE-GH. Thus Management's
            Response only addressedthe issues raisedby the Ifesowapo Host Communities
           Forumofthe West African Gas Pipeline Project.

     34.    The Response, which includes four annexes, provides background information
           on the Sector and the Project. Inaddition, the Response discusses a number of
           the Project's so-called "special issues", such as (1) Consultations, Disclosure
           and Supervision; (2) Poverty and Resettlement; (3) Project Economics; and (4)
           Environment. A Management Action Plan is also included in the Response.
           Detailed responsesto each specific claim raisedby the Requesters are provided
           inAnnex 1ofManagementResponse.

    35.    Subsequentto its Response, Managementprovided the Panelwith supplemental
           material in response to the Panel's notification regarding the new fisheries
           claim by the Requesters and the letter from FOE-GH. Management
           supplemental response is attached in Annex IV, and forms an integral part of
           this report.

    Response to the Requesters' Claims

    36.    With respect to the Requesters' allegations of non-compliance, Management
           believes that it has made significant efforts to apply its policies andprocedures.
           Management acknowledges that the Project included both risks and
           opportunities, but asserts that it focused on maximizing opportunities and
           safeguarding against risk. Management believes that the Project i s well-
           prepared and meets Bank's safeguards requirements.Management recognizes,
           however, that further work will be needed on safeguards supervision.
           Management also notes that it will work with WAPCo, the Government of
           Nigeria and affected communities to ensure that "the Requesters' rights or
           interests are not directly or adversely affected by the                  According to
           Management, there was strong continuity in senior Bank staff overseeing and
           supporting the safeguardswork during Project preparation.




31Bank Management Responseto Requestfor Inspection Panel o fthe Ghana: West African Gas Pipeline
Project (IDA GuaranteeNo, B-006-O-Gh), June 6, 2006, [hereinafter "Management Response"].
32ManagementResponse, 7 60.


                                                9

 EnvironmentalAssessment

    37.    According to Management, the Environmental Assessment (EA)33concluded
           that the Project would not cause major impacts in Nigeria and that impacts
           would be limitedto the Project's immediate vicinity. Management supports this
           assertion by citing an IndependentMonitoring Report prepared by WAPCo in
           December 2005. Management claims that the EA for the WAGP covers both
           pipelinesafety issues andthe upstream gas source.

    38.    Regarding safety issues, Management asserts that WAPCo conducted a
           community meeting in February 2006 attended by residents from at least three
           o f the communities that submitted the Request. Additionally, Management
           claims that WAPCo issued a system-wide Emergency Response Plan on May
           19,2006, and intends to prepare site-specific responseplans.

    39.    As to the Requesters' concerns regarding the scope of the EA, Management
           states that the Bank did not include the ELPS in the EA, because Management
          determined the ELPS was not a part of the Project's area of influence, as
           defined inOP 4.01 Annex A. According to Management, the main reasons for
          this determination were that the ELPS, which has been in operation since the
          early 1990's, would not be subject to any changes as a result of the
          implementation o f WAGP and i s neither owned by WAPCo nor dependent on
          the WAPG.

    40.   Management claims that an environmental audit would be a more appropriate
          instrumentfor an existing facility. It cites an audit which WAPCo conducted in
          the form of an ELPS Integrity Study, which concluded that the ELPS system
          would have adequate pipeline capacity for the WAPG and which described the
          ELPS pipeline as being inoverall good condition. Management also claims that
          the communities the Bank consulted did not raise issues about the safety of the
          ELPS, `probabl because it is sufficiently distant from any communities listed
          in the Request".  E

InvoluntaryResettlementandPovertyReduction

   41. Because o f the Project's provision for resettlement compensation, community
          development, and planned permanent employment, Management considers that
          the Project will benefit and not impoverish affected people.

   42.   Management notes that the repercussions o fthe Project's acquisition o f landare
          limited in Nigeria: 1,557 private landowners and 928 tenants are losing small
         portions of the total holdings that they own or cultivate. It believes affected


33The Requestfor Inspectionrefersto the EnvironmentalAssessment as EnvironmentalImpact
Assessment (ETA).
34ManagementResponse,Annex 1, p. 25.


                                               10

         people have all been contacted both by the estate surveyors contracted by
         WAGP and responsible for the land and asset inventory, as well as by
         independent surveyors that the affected people themselves hired to represent
         them.

   43.   As to the Requesters' concerns about the amount of compensation,
         Management indicates that the principle for compensation agreed upon and
         applied i s the "replacement value" for land and assets. More specifically,
         Management states that, in accordance with Bank policies, the compensation
        rates for perennial crops and economic trees should consider all future
        production as required under Bank policies. Compensation rates for all
         immovable assets and improvements also must take into account future income
         streams; future profits should have been considered as part o f future income.
        Management indicates that if the principle for compensation "has been applied
        inconsistently, the Bank will ensure that it is corrected."35

   44.  With regardto the valuation methods usedby WAPCo, Management states that
        during consultations held by the Bank in 2004, Management and WAPCo
        assured the participants that government rates would not be used as a basis to
        determine compensation amounts. Management indicates that for all assets,
        including land, WAPCo used "estate valuersyy36and that compensation
        payments had to also consider asset improvements., Management states that
        due to public concerns, WAPCo did not base compensation rates only on the
        1998 Oil Procedures Trade Section (OPTS) compensation schedule rates, but
        instead, after negotiations with three communities, agreed to increase the rates
        by 75 percent for land, and 50 percent for crops and buildings.InJanuary 2005
        these rates were increased by an additional five percent due to delays in
        payment. However, Management notes that according to the RAP, "the OPTS
        rates were reported to bejrst increased by ten times and then,for inflation, an
        additional increase (+75% for land, and +50 %for other assets) was reported
        to be added."37Management confirms that it is reviewingthe actual payments
        `(toensure that, regardless of OPTSrates or an mark-ups agreed, theprinciple
        ofreplacement valuefor lost assets was met."     Y

   45.  According to Management, the RAP instructs WAPCo to conduct both internal
        monitoring to ensure that valuations and payments are correctly made, as well
        as annual assessmentso f the effectiveness o f compensation at restoringincome.
        Management states that an independent audit o f resettlement is scheduled for
        September 2006. It states that the Requesters should first bring their concerns
        about the level of compensation to the attention o f the grievance mechanism.




35ManagementResponse,744.
36ManagementResponse, Annex 1, p.26.
37ManagementResponse, Annex 1, p.26.
38ManagementResponse, Annex 1, p. 26.


                                          11

   46.   As to the Requester's concern about the alleged lack of a binding contractual
         relationship between individual landowners and WAPCo, Management claims
         that these agreements are documented in "Compensation and Indemnity
         Receipts for Direct Payment" forms. "[Ilfregistered as described in the RAP"
         Management believes, the receipts for property acquired meet Bank       standard^.^'
   47.   Regarding the issue o f employment o f local labor force raised inthe Request,
         Management claims that most landowners have lost only small parts o f their
         land and thus do not need alternative employment. Management refers to
         several activities that are described inthe EA, such as temporary employment
         o f local residents in clearing, pipe installation and construction, local purchases
         and permanent employment for a much smaller group of residents. According
         to Management, WAPCo is operating a nine-month training program for long-
        term positions; 25 trainees are Nigerians and the number o f positions to be
         filled inNigeria i s expected to be 16. Management also states that WAPCo has
         committed to at least 15 % local content during the construction phase and
         achieved 12.2 % through March 2006.

   48.  In its response, Management also emphasizes that WAPCo has instituted
        Community Development Programs. It expects that the new water systems,
        schools and health centers to be provided by WAPCo will improve the living
        conditions o f the affected communities as a whole.

Consultationsand Disclosure

   49.  Management does not agree withthe Requesters' claim that consultations about
        compensation were inadequate. It considers that the issue o f compensation was
        adequately addressed infrequent and extensive consultations.

   50.  Management indicates that WAPCo and its consultants conducted twenty-five
        formal consultations inaffected communities concerning the issues covered by
        the EA. Twenty additional consultations were organized exclusively for the
        RAP. According to Management, WAPCo held at least sixteen meetings in
        communities that signed the Request, open to both landowners and non-
        landowners. Management also states that the Federal Government o f Nigeria
        held a public hearing on the EA on April 6,2004.

   51.  In addition, Management asserts that a social safeguard specialist conducted
        fieldvisits to all locations andthat the Bank's ExternalAffairs department held
        consultations in all four countries during the preparation o f the second draft of
        the EA and the RAP. Additionally, Bank environmental, social and community
        development specialists conducted field visits to assess whether consultations
        anddisclosure hadbeenadequate.




39ManagementResponse, Annex 1, p.27.


                                             12

    52.    In response to the Requester's claim that insufficient consultation about
            compensation has incited tensions in communities and within families,
           Management states that any tension that may have developed were "normal
           parts of community dynamics." 4Q

    53.    Regarding disclosure o f information, Management asserts that the first draft o f
           the EA for Nigeriawas disclosed inlocal, state andnational government offices
           inJanuary 2004. It acknowledges initial difficulties accessing the document in
           Badagry, but claims that the situation was corrected immediately. The final
           drafts o f the EA andthe RAP were disclosed inJuly 2004 on the internet and at
           eleven locations in Nigeria, including the local administration in Badagry.
           Copies were also sent to several NGOs and displayed at the Bank Info Shop.
           Management also indicates that the Environmental and Social Management
           Plan (ESMP) for Nigeria which was prepared in2005 is available on WAPCo's
           website. Management acknowledges that this disclosure should have been
           supplemented with translations of summaries o f RAPSand EMPs in the local
           language Yoruba. Despite the Bank's request in October 2004, these
           translations are still not available.

Supervision

    54.    Management believes that the Project has been well prepared and supervised
           and that the issues raised in the Request had already been identified in
           supervision. Management states that it has conducted one supervision mission
           on safeguards in June 2005 before construction began, in which issues related
           to, inter alia, safety and compensation were raised. Management acknowledges
           that a "jeld missionfor supervision is overdue and will be conductedin thefirst
           quarter of FY 200T'.41

EconomicAnalysis

    55.    Regarding the economic analysis, Management claims that it performed its own
           analysis and also engaged a consulting firm to perform an additional analysis. It
           believes that the economic analysis considered all feasible alternatives and
           adequately evaluated the sustainability of the Project adequately.

    56.    According to Management, the EA includes not only Project alternatives but
           also addresses a "no action or no "project" alternative. It believes, that the
           WAGP was by far the most attractive investment and expects that the Project
           will generate significant economic benefits to participatingcountries.

    57.    Management also believes that the economic analysis and the PAD draw a
           realistic picture of the Project's contribution to the reduction of gas flaring.


40ManagementResponse, Annex 1, p. 28.
41ManagementResponse, Annex 1, p. 33. FY 2007 refers to the World Bank fiscalyear 2007, which starts
on July 1,2006


                                                13

         Management indicates that while flaring reductions are not explicitly mentioned
         as one o f the objectives in the PAD, the Project does "make a modest
         contribution to flaring reduction." 42 According to Management, the annual
         volume o f associated gas i s even included as one of the Project's monitoring
         indicators.

   Action Plan

    58.  Management i s aware that some o f the issues raised in the Request, such as
         compensation rates,      community development mechanisms,           and some
         environmental and safety issues, still need to be addressed. To do so,
         Management Response introduces an Action Plan, proposing several actions to
         resolve the situation.

   59.   In a first step, Management identifies the risks still facing the Project: (1)
         Potential uncertainty regarding disclosure of information; (2) Potentially
         inadequate compensation; and (3) Potential lack o f ~redibility.~~

   60.  To address these risks, Management proposes several actions, such as the
        facilitation o f community development programs and measures to increase
        transparency and accountability through conducting two supervision missions
        per year untilProject completion. Additionally, Management states that before
        September 30, 2006 WAPCo will disseminate non-technical translations of
        RAP and EMP summaries, including explanations of the grievance and
        monitoring mechanisms.

   61.  Moreover, Management expects the appointment o f an expert panel by
        September 2006. According to Management, the expert panel's mandate
        includes the review o f social and environmental issues. The expert panel will
        also assess the effectiveness o fthe grievance procedures inSeptember 2006.

   62.  Management also states that it will assess whether compensation rates were
        sufficient to replace acquired assets and whether the grievance redress process
        was effective in correcting problems. Additionally, Management claims that
        before September 30, 2006, WAPCo will conduct professional surveys based
        on actual field measurements and ratings to assess the current values o f each
        type o f lost asset, including communal lands, trees, crops, other structures, and
        public assets. Management confirms that this will be guided by the definition o f
        "replacement value" as required by OP 4.12, and that the Bank will review the
        cases cited inthe Request.

   63.  Management expects that system wide emergency response plans will be
        disclosed inJune 2006 and that detailed site plans will be developed. Further, a



42ManagementResponse, 7 55.
  ManagementResponse, 7 43.
43



                                           14

             resettlement audit, planned for September 2006 will review the adequacy o f
             compensation to replace lost assets and the status o f income restoration.

     Responses to Additional Items Raised

     64.     With regard to the problem ofpollution andthe loss of fisheries inthe Badagry
             area, which has arisen only in recent weeks, Management provided the Panel
             with "Clarijications Regarding Marine Pollution," in which it indicated that,
             upon receiving notice from the Inspection Panel, it "sought WAPCo's
             cooperation in undertaking an urgent preliminary investigation into the
             matter."44 WAPCo completed its work in the Lagos Beach shore approach on
            March 14,2006, and the Badagry Lagooncrossing on April 12,2006.

     65.    According to Management Clarifications, WAPCo visited the site on June 22,
            2006 and met with the chief fishermen and other fishermen in Ajido. WAPCo
            purchased a sample used net from the fishermen to test the brownish-green
             substance that i s interfering with the fishing and the nets. Management states
            that these tests showed that the brownish-green substance is plant material, a
            filamentous green alga. Management Clarifications indicate that "[biased on
            the above noted clarijkations and the methods employed in drilling and laying
            the pipeline in the lagoon and Badagry Creek, Management believes it is
            unlikely that the substance found on the nets is related to WAPCo's
             operation^.'^^' Management also states that inJuly 2006, an environmental staff
            specialist from the Bank's Abuja office "will visit the site tofollow up on the
            matter with theJishermen, local government (including its environmental unit)
            and WAPCoBeldstaffto ensure that this matter is appropriately referred to the
            Nigerian environmental authorities."

     66.    Management also respondedto the FOE-GHletter, which raised concerns about
            the quality of consultations with affected communities, and about the adverse
            effects that the construction and installation o f the pipeline may have on the
            fishermen o f Ghana. In response to the claim that the Project's long term
            economic benefits to Ghana were not taken into account in the consultation
            process, Management states that the results o f the economic analysis were
            disclosed inan open forum inAccra in September 2004 to all interested parties,
            who were given the opportunity to provide their inputs. It also asserts that Bank
            staff "conducted a round of consultations in all four countries" to evaluate
            WAPCo's public participation program, and meetings with the communities
            were held for the preparation o f the environmental and social impact
            assessment.46




44West Africa Gas Pipeline Project-Clarifications RegardingMarinePollution, [hereinafter"Management
Clarifications"].
45Management Clarifications, p. 2.
46Management Responseto FOE-GHletter, p. 1.


                                                  15

    67.     With respect to the emergency response system, Management states that
            WAPCo held public meetings with all affected communities to discuss the
            responseplans and to describe ina clear way the actions that all parties need to
            take in case o f accidents. In Response to the FOE'Srequest that continued
            impact assessments be conducted to avoid negative impacts on livelihoods and
            fisheries, Management claims that the environmental monitoring plan includes
            the assessment o f these impacts, carried out by independent consultants. In
            addition, consultations were held during Project appraisal with fishing
            communities' representatives inall countries, and NGOs contracted to assist in
            project implementation together with WAPCo's community liaison officers will
            "remain engaged with all Communities along the pipeline right-of-way in
            coastal areas surrounding pipeline landfalls for several years."              `'

 E. Eligibility

    68.     The Panel must determine whether the Request satisfies the eligibility criteria
            for an Inspection, as set forth in the 1993 Resolution48establishing the Panel
            andthe 1999 clarification^^^, and recommend whether the matter alleged inthe
           Request should be investigated.

    69.    The Panel has reviewed the Request and Management first and supplemental
           Responses. The Panel Chairperson, Edith Brown Weiss, together with
           Executive Secretary Eduardo Abbott and Panel Operations Officer Serge
           Selwan, visitedNigeria and Ghana from June 4 - 10, 2006. During their visit,
           the Panel met with the signatories of the Request for Inspection and with other
           affected people in Ajido, Badagry and Lagos, with national government
           officials in Abuja, and with Bank Management inAbuja. InAccra, Ghana, the
           Panel met with officials from WAPCo, experts and Bank Management. While
           in Accra, the Panel received a letter from FOE-GHin support of Request of
           Inspection.

    70.    The Panel wishes to thank the Ifesowapo Host Communities Forumofthe West
           African Gas Pipeline Project, FOE-GH,Environmental Rights Actionl FOE
           Nigeria, and Government officials in Abuja. The Panel especially expresses its
           appreciation to the Requesters for showing the Panel the area o f concern to
           them. The Panel also wishes to thank WAPCo staff for providing documents
           and discussing points o f concern with the Panel. The Panel i s grateful to Bank
           staff in Abuja for providing the Panel with information and for assisting with
           logistical arrangements.




41Management Responseto FOE-GHletter, p. 2.
48Resolution No. IBRD93-10 of September22, 1993, hereinafter "the Resolution".
49The 1999 Clarifications to the Resolution (hereinafter "the 1999 Clarifications") are contained inthe
"Conclusions of the Board's Second Reviewo fthe Inspection Panel" datedApril 20, 1999.


                                                    16

    71.    The Panel proposes to add the letter submitted by FOE-GHas part of the
           documentation for the Request, since the Project also takes place in Ghana and
           because at the request and with the agreement o f the Republic of Ghana, IDA
           agreed to provide a guarantee for financial obligations regarding the
           development, financing, construction and operation o f the Project.

    72.    During the visit, the Panel confirmed that the Requesters are legitimate parties
           under the Resolutionto submit a Requestfor Inspectionto the InspectionPanel.
           The Requesters have a common interest and common concerns as required in
           Paragraph 9(a).

    73.    The Request indicates that affected people have authorized the Ifesowapo Host
           Communities Forumo f the West Afi-ican Gas Pipeline Project to represent their
           interests to the InspectionPanel.

   74.     The Panelnotes that the Request "assert[s]in substancethat aserious violation
           by the Bank of its operational policies andprocedures has or is likely to have
           material adverse effect upon the requesters." (Paragraph 9(b)).

   75.     The Requesters assert that they have suffered serious harm or will suffer harm
          inthe future, because the Project "ifexecuted aspresently conceived, would do
           irreparable damage to the land and consequently, destroy the livelihoods of the
           12 communities.    lJ5OThe Requesters claim that the Bank's support for the
          Project would allow the Project sponsors to "continue the unwarranted
          degradation of our environmentand     livelihood^."^'

   76.    The Requesters allege that the World Bank actions constitute a violation of
          Bank policies and procedures on Project Supervision, Involuntary Resettlement,
          Environmental Assessment,        and Economic Evaluation of Investment
          Operations and that these actions have had a significant adverse effect on the
          Requesters' rights, as requiredby paragraph 9(b).

   77.    The Requesters claim that they have brought their concerns to Management's
          attention at various occasions. They state that they have attempted to discuss
          their concerns with Management, inter alia, during visits of Bank missions to
          Nigeria in October 2004 and in June 2005. They believe that despite these
          repeated efforts the Bank has remained inactive and failed to address their
          concerns. Management Response acknowledges that it has been aware of many
          of the issues that the Requesters raise and that these issues were discussed in
          local consultations and during a Bank mission in 2004 to Badagry and
          discussed again in the safeguards supervision mission in 2005. The Panel i s
          therefore satisfied that the Request "does assert that the subject matter has
          been brought to ManagementS attention and that, in the Requesters' view,
          Management has failed to respond adequately demonstrating that it has

50
*'Request,p.
          p. 1.
  Request, 8.


                                             17

          followed or is taking steps tofollow the Bank's policies andprocedures" as set
          forth in Paragraph 9(c).

    78.    The Panel notes that the subject matter of the Request is not related to
          procurement, as requiredbyparagraph 9(d).

    79.   No fimds had been disbursed under the Guarantee as o f the date the Request
          was filed. The Requesttherefore satisfies the requirementinparagraph 9(e) that
          the relatedloanhasnot beenclosed or substantially disbursed.52

    80.   Furthermore, the Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the
          subject matter o fthe Request. Therefore, the Request satisfies Paragraph9(f).

    81.   The Panel notes, however, that this Request has special circumstances which
          affect the Panel's consideration o f whether an Investigation i s merited at this
          time.

    82.   The Panel notes that Management's Response contains an Action Plan to
          address issues raised in the complaint.          The supplemental Response regarding
          pollution and fisheries indicates that Management i s seeking to ensure that the
          problem is addressed.

    83.   The Panel did not find widespread discontent about the Project itself among
          affected people. However, people expressed their concern about the criteria for
          compensation and the failure to consider future earnings, and displayed
          documents which the Panel observed would merit review. People also raised a
          new concern relating to environmental contaminationand fisheries.

    84.   Importantly, when consulted about the Management Action Plan, the
          Requesters with whom the Panelmet during its eligibility visits, among them a
          Requester acting as a community liaison, indicatedthat that they do not want to
          press for an investigationat this time but rather await further developments and
          Bankactions regarding their concerns.

    85.   Inlight of Articles 4 and 5 of the 1999 Clarifications and consistent with prior
          similar recommendations approved by the Board, the Panel recommends to
          defer the decision on whether to recommend an investigation or not, until the
          review o f compensation and other actions included in Management's Action
          Plan have been initiatedandto see whether the concerns o f the Requesters have
          been met. This will also include that environmental monitoring is inplace and
          that further adequate response to the above mentionedfishery issue is provided.

    86.   Given Requesters' preference to await Bank's commitment to undertake certain
          steps to ensure compliance and address their concerns as noted above, and


52According to the Resolution, "thiswill be deemed to be the case when at least ninetyfmepercent of the
loanproceeds have been disbursed." Footnote to Paragraph 14 (c).


                                                 18

    given the relative complacency o f affected people about the Project at present,
    the Panel recommends that it defer a decision with regard to recommending an
    investigation in order to give Management time to implement its Action Plan.
    The Panel expects to be able to make a determination by the end of 2006 as to
    whether aninvestigationis merited.




F. Conclusions

87. In light of the foregoing observations and in fairness to all the parties
    concerned, the Panel, as it has done ina similar situation inthe past with Board
    approval, does not take a position at this time on whether the Request merits an
    investigation.

88. Since the Panel is not making a recommendation on this issue, the Requesters
    may still have recourse to the Panel later if they consider there are serious
    violations of Bank policies and procedures causing material adverse effect,
    which are based on specific acts or omissions o f the Bank relating to the
    Project.

89. The Panel, therefore, recommends to the Board of Executive Directors that it
    approve the Panel's proposal to refrain fiom issuing a recommendation at this
    time on whether an investigation is warranted in this case, but rather await
    fk-ther developments on the matters raised in the Request for Inspection. The
    Panel expects to be able to make a determination by the end o f 2006 as to
    whether to recommend an investigation.




                                      19


      ANNEX I

REQUESTFORINSPECTION


                                                               ' -7--,.':-
                                                                      Okm'i   ,--1
      REQUESTFOR1NSPECTIONBY REPRESENTATWS
..    COMMUNITIESIMPACTEDBY THE WEST AFRICANGASPTBkIjYE
      PROJECTINLAGOSSTATE,NIGERIA                                   - . t    1 4  : . J
                                                                         . " >..      '!i'c
      1.DESCRIPTIONOF COMPLAINANTS                                                  '8    -




      This complaint is brought by the 1FESOWAPOHOSTCOMMUNITIES FORUM
      ON THE WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELIJVEPROJECT, Lagos State throughtheir
      representativesfrom OlorundaLocalGovernmentArea ofLagos State, Nigeria: High
      ChiefNuruAshade, Mr.Toyin Hassan, Alhaji Alani Ajose and IsholaHassan. (Please
      seeannex I,includingcopies of letters authorizingthe requestors to submitthis
      complaint onbehalfofthe Association).

      The Association is made up ofthe 12 communitiesto be impactedby the West
      African Gas PipelineProject (WAGP) around the Badagryaxis, inLagosstate, South-
      west Nigeria. These communitiesare Ajido, ImekeAgemowo, Araromi Ale, Idaghe
      Iyesi, Ilogbo Eremiand Igbesacommunities; others are Okoomi, Itori, OIoydAbiola,
      Arobieye, Igboliye and EgushiBenjacommunities. High ChiefNuru Ashade and Mr.
      Toyin Hassanare bothdirectly impactedby this projectbecausetheir landswere
      acquired. Alhaji Alani Ajose andAlhaji IsholaHassanare membersofthe
      communitiesand principal membersofthe Association.

      We foundthat this project has violated the following World Bank policies:
          1) OP 13.05 on ProjectSupervision;
          2) OP/BP 4.12 on Resettlement;
          3) OP/BP 4.01 on EnvironmentalAssessment;
          4) OPBP 10.04 on EconomicEvaluationof InvestmentOptions

      We believethat the West African Gas PipelineProject, ifexecuted as presently
      conceived, would do irreparabledamage to the landand consequently, destroy the
      livelihoodsofthe 12 communities.This is why we are filing this complaintwith the
      InspectionPanel.

      Efforts to raise concerns

      We have made strenuous effortslo make the views that we have canvassed here
      availableto the proponents ofthe projectandthe Bank itself, including during visits
      ofthe West African Gas PipelineCompany (WAPCO) and the World Bank, the first
      of which took place on October30,2004 at WhisperingPalinsat Badagry, Lagosand
      the second in June 2005

      However, we are disappointedwith the complete inactiontakento address our
      concerns. We also know that several organizationshave raisedthese same concerns
      with the Bankat forums such as duringthe civil society consultationwith the Bank's
      team to Nigeria on 29 October2004. We have therefore decided to usethe Inspection
      Panelto further reiteratethat our concernsand fears have not beenaddressed neither
      by the Bank nor the proponents of the project.




                                                                                              1

2. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

The West AfricanGasPipelineProjectis aprojectwhichaims to deliver gas from               .-
Nigeriavia an approximately680 kilometrelongpipelinewhich cuts across23
communitiesinOgun and Lagos states South WesternNigeriato a terminalpoint in
Takoradi Ghana.The 58 kilometresofthe pipelineand other ancillaryfacilities that
would beconstructedby the West African GasPipelineCompany from Alagbado to
Ajido in Lagos state south- western Nigeriawould passthroughandbeplacedon the
landsof these 23 communities, totallingover onehundredand fortythousandpeople.

The WAGP will connectwith the existingEscravos-LagosPipeline(ELP) at
Alagbado "TEE" northof Lagos. The onshorepipeline(trunkline) will be buriedat 1
meter depth on landandat 8 metresdepth offshore(in sea). FromAlagbado `TEE", a
30 inchpipelinewill extend 55 kilometressouthwestto Badagry beachwhere the gas
will becompressedat a station, yet to be built by the WAPCO. A map is availablein
the ExecutiveSummary ofthe WAGP ProjectDocument(figureES-5 entitled
CommunitiesMap for OnshorePipelineroute, Nigeria).

The project is designedto substitute naturalgas from Nigeriafor alternate fuels used
by power, industrial,miningandcommercialsectors inGhana, Togo andBenin
Republic. It is touted as a regionalintegrationproject, supporting the WorldBank's
RegionalIntegrationAssistance Strategy (RIAS) andcomplementingthe proposed
West African Power Pool (WAPP) project.The project is also saidto be a cardinal
partof the plansofthe New Partnershipfor Africa's Development(NEPAD).

Accordingto the World Bank, the rationalefor the Bank's involvementinthisproject
is that "the projectwould leadto the introductionof privatesector financingand
expertise into regulated sectorsofthe economiesofthe participatingWest African
States."'

The entireproject is estimatedto cost USD$600million. The WorldBank's
InternationalDevelopmentAssociation(IDA) and MultilateralInvestmentGuarantee
Agency (MIGA) are involvedinthe projectby: providing financialand politicalrisk
guaranteesfor the project, aimedat safeguardingthe investmentso foil transnationals,
Chevron and Shell, by ensuringthat the governmentofGhanadoesnot fail in its
payment obligationsunder the contract and providingsupport for the implementation
ofnationaland regionallegalandpolicy frameworksrequiredto kick-startgas market
development inGhana, Beninand Togo. Specifically, inNovember2004 the World
Bank's IDA approveda $50millionguaranteeto the government ofGhanawhile
MIGA approveda $75millionguaranteeto WAPCO.




IProjectAppraisalDocunient(ReportNo:30335-AFR)page6.




                                                                                    2

For some time now, our communities, supportedby civil society groups, have been
expressingconcernsin relationto the project.These issuesinclude:
    --
    -   payment of inadequatecompensationto landowners;
        the manner inwhichEnvironmentalImpactAssessment was carriedout;
        the inability ofthe communitiesand groups to pinpointthe locationwhere the

    --  draftEnvironmentalImpactAssessmentdocument was displayed;
        the project's unconvincingapproachto the issueof gas flaring;
        the failure ofthe proponents ofthe projectto carry out an Environmental
        ImpactAssessment inareas alongthe existingEscravos-Lagospipelinethat
        will feed gas intothe new pipeline.

3. BANKPOLICIES VIOLATED BY THE PROJECT

3.1 Proiect Supervision

The WorldBank's OP 13.05 requiresthe Bank to ensure that the borrower
implementstheproject with due diligence and to identifvand takesteps to resolve
problems in implementation. As will becomeclear from the elaborationbelow, we
feel stronglythat the World Bank has failedto comply with this policy.

Many ofthe problemscausedby the WAGP project's sponsorswere not anticipated
or resolvedby the World Bank as requiredby this policy. We consider the problems
with the projectsponsors mentionedbelow a resultofthe World Bank's failureto
adequately supervise the project'spreparation and implementation.

3.2 Resettlement Policy

The projectas presentlybeingimplementedviolatesthe Bank's Operational
Policy/BankProcedure4.12 ofJanuary 2002 which in essence requires thatpeople
who are losing their lands or livelihoodas a result of a Bankfinanced project
should benefitfrom theproject and should have their standard of living improved
or at least restored. This policy stated herewas notcompliedwith inour
communities.

We havecomplained varioustimes to different stakeholders in the project, the
government, the projectowners (West African GaspipelineCompany), etc on our
fears and concerns on inadequatecompensation. We are convincedit will not restore
or improveour standard ofliving.

Membersofour communitieswere assuredthat `adequate compensationwould be
paidon the basisof ratesestablished by the Nigeriangovernment andthat these rates
would be further increasedto reflectinflationadjustmentand restorationoflost
incomes'. With thc benefit ofhindsight,we now believethat these statements
providedprecious little informationon the exact amount of compensationthat we
were to receive for each plot of landacquired for the project.




                                                                                 3

The project sponsorskeptus inthe dark about this and other informationrelatingto
adequatecompensationthat shouldimproveour standardofliving. There were
assurancesfrom projectsponsors that the rates for leaseof landin our communities
set by the Nigeriangovernmentwouldnot be usedincomputingthe quantumof
compensationto be paid. Butto our surprise, when the compensationswere
eventuallypaid, the rateswere inmostcaseslessthan 4% ofthe marketrate.

Ina petitionto the "Chief ExecutiveOfficer" ofthe West AfricanGasPipeline
Company by representativesofthe OGABI/ORISAFUNMIfamiliesofImeketown
OlorundaLocalGovernment Area, datedMarch 14, 20042,the familiesrespectively
stated "that uponcommissioningour surveyor to measureout the portionofour
family landthat falls within the gas pipelineroute, itwas discoveredthat 2 acresof
our family landfalls within the route         ...atthe moment a plot of landmeasuring l00fi
by 50A in Imekecommunity can be sold (leased) for at leastN250,000 (twohundred
and fifty thousandnairaonly) this is about $USD2,000". The petitionerscontinued
"Two Acres of landat that rate will attract N3, 000,000 (three millionnairaonly) or
$23,100    ...our   family should be adequatelycompensatedfor the lost(sic) whichwill
definitely beoccasioned." The petitionersfurtherstated               ..."weduly      acknowledge the
receiptofN400,OOO (four hundredthousandnairaonly) or $3,600 already paidas
compensationto the family".3 It is importantto state herethat one ofthe signatories,
Hon. A.O. OGABI, is the Chairman of Olorunda Localgovernment, the highest
rankedelected official in the localgovernment area.

There were no bindingcontractualrelationsbetweenindividuallandownersand
WAPCO. The sponsorsofthe projectmerelypaidat their own discretion.They
providedcompensationfor the crops on the land only and did not pay anythingfor the
landand future profitsthat are accruable from the activitiesthat we would have
undertakenon our lands.

Our request for cash compensationinsteadofrelocationinmany instanceswas
informedby our fear ofthe unknown.These landsare our ancestral landsand we
cannot leave it to total strangerswhile movingto someother locationto reside.
Rulingelites in the country inconnivancewith the oil multinationalshaveby their
actions and inactionsenhancedpovertyinour communities. Butthis doesnot give
them the rightto take our landsor payusnextto nothingas compensationwhen we
optedto stay on our land.

Public Consultationsand Disclosure

Still under OPBP 4.12: Not all stakeholdershadaccess to the project information,
and the informationprovidedwas not understoodby membersofour communities.
That is why the expectations ofour community peoplewere unnecessarilyraisedon

 The letter was titled: `Re: Acquisitionofpartof Ogabi/OrisafunmiFamily land at lmekein Olorunda
Area of Badagry Lagos State for the West-African Gas' and the signatorieswere Honourable
A.O.OGAR1 and Mr. SHlNA AKINOLA for the OGABl and ORISAFUNMI families.
 The value of the nairato the dollar at the officialmarket at the time of this petitonhoveredbetween
135-132 nairato the dollar.



                                                                                                    4

 the compensationwe were to receive. Untilthe day some ofuscollectedour
 compensations, we hadno ideaofthe criteriausedfor computingthe compensations
 to be paid for the acquisitionofour lands. We believethat there was a deliberate
 policy not to disclose all relevantinformationin order to get our support for the
 project.

 The mannerthe little consultationthat took placewas carriedout is a recipefor crisis
 and violencein our communities. There are still tensions betweenthe landownersand
 those ofus whose landswere not acquiredbut whose livelihoodwould invariablybe
 affectedby the project.Someof us would loseour farmlands; others may bedenied
 easy accessto their farms and fishinggrounds. We believethat the sponsors ofthe
 projectemployedthe classic divideandrule strategy to their full advantage. Our
 communitymembershaveyet to resolvethe bitternessand bickeringthat was the
 hallmarkofthe selectiveconsultationswhichtook placewith a few landowners, while
 other land users and impactedpersonswere ignored.

 Inanotherexample ofconflictsthat arose, families were against eachotherowingto
 what somemembersperceivedas the smallamount ofcompensationdeclaredby their
 family headswho signed for andcollectedcompensationchequeson behalfoftheir
 families. Familyheadswere suspectedto have stashedpart of the compensation for
their privateuse.This perceptionwas entirely false, butas there was hardlyany
 informationon the quantumofcompensationto family heads, rumours ofdishonesty
onthe part offamily headswere rifeandthese ledto bitter quarrelsand even physical
 fights. It is pertinentto notethat a family in the sense usedheredenotes the extended
family system practicedwidely in our communities.

There were also instanceswhere the landownersandthe land users (those who lease
lands for farming) clashedover who should be paidcompensationandhow the
compensationthat hasbeenpaidshould be shared.


3.3 Yolicv on Environmental Assessment


We assert that the projectviolatesthe Bank's OperationalPolicy/Bankprocedure 4.01
o fMarch 1999, which requires a careful analysis and mitigation, and avoidanceof
the environmentaland social impacts of aproject. It is a key requirement ofthis
policy that publicconsultationwith all key stakeholdersbe undertakenand that
relevant documents bedisclosed.

Public Consultation

It is sadto notethat the overwhelmingmajorityofour peoplewere notconsulted
duringthe preparationofthe EnvironmentalImpactAssessment report onthe project,
nor after announcementsinthe nationaldaily newspapersthat draft copiesofthe
EnvironmentalImpactAssessment ofthe projectwere on display at different
locations.




                                                                                     5

                                                                                       .
 Inour presentationto the team ofconsultantsfiom the WorldBankthat visitedour
 communityon October 30,2004 we statedthus "we shallappreciateaproof(sic) as
 regardsvenue, time and list ofcommunitypeoplethat attendedthe public hearingon         -.
 the EIA besidesthe landownerswith whom the company holdsperiodicmeetingson
 the subject ofcompensations".

 Althoughthe majorityofour communitypeopleare not landowners, the pipeline
 would passvery close to our homes, throughroutes our childrentake to their schools,
 routesour women take to their farms andto our fishinggrounds. This makesus
 significant stakeholders. And we feel aggrievedthat we were not consulteduntilthe
 visit ofthe team ofconsultants from the World Bank, which includedThomas
 Walton, Arbi Ben-Achourand Yasmin Tayyab on October 30,2004 in Badagry.
 Duringthis visit, it was evidentthat there was a lack ofadequateconsultationwith the
 people as no one fiom our communitiesinthe BadagryaxisofLagos statewas ableto
 identify what was inthe Resettlement ActionPlan. We have hadthe opportunityof
 readingthe ProjectAppraisalDocument ReportNo 30335-AFRofNovember2,2004
 ofthe team ofconsultants referredto above. We are very worriedthat this important
aspect ofthe meetingwas not highlightedintheir report.Moreover, our support for "a
projectthat would utilize presently flaredand harmfulassociated gas" was
misconstrued as giving blanket support for this project.

Information Disclosure

We visitedthe Badagry and Olorundalocalcouncilsecretariats in January 2004 in
order to make informedcommentsonthe EIA. However, thiswas impossiblebecause
the document was unavailable.We understandthat it is now availableon the Internet.
But lookingat the size of the document, the low literacylevel inour communitiesand
non-availabilityofinternetservice in our communities, it will take us forever to
decipher what is inthe document. It also meanswe would haveto hireconsultantsto
comb throughthe EIA documentsseekingrelevantdatathat we mayneedto respond
to.

In addition, it would have been helpful ifrelevantportionsofthe largedocumentshad
been reproducedin Yoruba, the languagecommonlyusedinour communities, and
distributedto impacted communities.This, nodoubt, would have assisted us makethe
informedcommentsrequiredbythe sponsorsandthe WorldBank.At thismoment,
all though landacquisitionhasbeencompletedand clearingofthe right ofway is in
progress, there is still notranslation ofthe ResettlementAction Plan intoYoruba.

Scope ofthe EIA

The failureofthe projectproponentsto carryout an EnvironmentalImpact
Assessment ofthe existingEscravos-Lagos Pipeline,to which the West African Gas
Pipelinewill be linked, is amajor sourceofconcern for us. Insome cases, the routeof
the pipelineis only a few feet away fiom our homesandpassesclose to our schools,
farms and fishing grounds. We are very worriedthat the Escravos-Lagospipeline,
which is shut down several times a year becauseofpoormaintenanceand accidents,
will sourcethe WAGP pipeline.


                                                                                   6

It is the generallyknownhere inNigeriathat the Escravos-Lagospipelineis not safe.
We will not feel safe eitheruntila proper EIA hasbeencarriedout onthe Escravos-
Lagossection ofWAGPso that its potentialimpactson the safety ofWAGP are made
clear and availablefor all to see. SuchanEIA is essentialto determinethe West
African Gas PipelineProject's environmentalimpacts.

We are convincedthat the unsafestate ofthe Escravos-Lagos Pipelineimpliesa
serious danger for the safety ofthe West African Gas Pipelineand all who live inits
proximity. We do notwish to becomevictims ofgas explosionsand leaks like our
brothersin one ofthe states inthe Niger Deltawhere on September 12,2003, agas
pipelineowned by Shell (one ofthe sponsorsofthe WAGPproject)that suppliesgas
to the aluminiumsmelterplant, exploded. This ledto the deathofcommunity people
andto their relocationaway from their communities. Importantly,we knowthat
emergency responsemechanismsinthis country is totally nonexistent.There were
two majorair mishaps latelast year inNigeria, one ofthem happenedat Lisavillage a
few kilometresaway from our communitiesand it took the searchandrescue team of
the National Emergencyoutfit two wholedays to locatethe site ofthe crash. We have
beentold that there is an emergency responseand contingencyplanto minimize
impactsofdisasters, butwe are totally unawareof its contentor adequacybecauseof
the little informationwe have.

3.4 Policy on economic evaluation ofinvestment oDtions

Another very importantpolicythat was violatedis the Operational/Policyand Bank
Procedure 10.04 of September 1994, which requires that the Bankevaluate
investmentprojects with the aim of ensuringthat theypromote the development
goals of the county, to do aproper consideration of feasible alternativesincluding
the "withoutproject" situation (as also requiredby OP 4.01) and to evaluatethe
sustainability of theprojects.

Developmentgoals

We believethat this projectwouldnot promotethe holisticdevelopment in our
communityand even in our countryas it is premisedon the false assumptionthat it
will reducethe flaringofassociated gas inNigeria. Fromthe facts inthe documents
availableto us it is unquestionablethat Nigeriais the biggest gas flaring country in
the world. Flaringcontributesto the destructionof the landsandrivers inour country,
to serious healthproblems and to the globalphenomenonofClimateChange. As
such, gas flaring is doinggreat harm to the environment, health and livelihoodsof
Nigerians.Inaddition, flaringas opposedto capturinggas entailsan economic loss.
Accordingto estimates ofthe World Bank itself, it costs Nigeriaabout US$2.5 billion
annually.




                                                                                    7

The WAGP project's proponentsclaim that associatedgas (which is normallybeing
flared) will bethe source ofthe pipeline. We, in conjunctionwith Environmental
RightsActionRriendsofthe EarthNigeria, haverequestedinformationthat would
show that this isthe case. The question is important,since the fields inthe Western
NigerDeltawhere the gas for WAGPwill be sourced, are generally non-associated
gas fields. Thismeansadditionalgas would be drilled instead.

Currently, the WAGPprojectdesign doesnot demonstratein concreteterms that any
amount ofassociated gas would be pipedthroughthe pipeline. As the WorldBank
itselfhas said, '75% ofgas flaring inNigeriais aresultofthe failureof proponentsof
the West Africa GasPipelineProjectto put inplacethe necessary infrastructureto
enhance gas utilizationinthe country4. Inthis situation, it is inappropriatefor the
Bankto support WAGP, as it allowsprojectsponsorsto continuethe unwarranted
degradation ofour environmentand livelihoods.

Inthis respect, the Bank also failedto take intoconsiderationNigeria'splansto
doubleoil outputto 4 million barrels ofcrude oil per day (fromthe present2.5 million
barrelsperday) by2010 and the expected increasein new oil field development. This
will inevitablyleadto the productiono fmoreassociatedgas.

Without guaranteesthat WAGP use only associated (otherwiseflared) gas, the World
Bank's support for WAGPwill increasethe useofnon-associatedgas, which is
cheaper to producethan associatedgas. WAGP would thus set aprecedentof looking
solelyat profit margins, rather than the best development interestofthe peopleofthis
country.

Even at the levelofthe supposedeconomic benefitof the projectfor usas a
community, we think this claim is patentlyfalse, illusoryanddiversionary.Firstly
employmentopportunitieswould only includetemporary manual labour during
constructionwork. As far as we know, no mechanismhasbeenput inplaceto ensure
that qualifiedpersonsfrom the communitywith the relevant academic credentials are
put through trainingto secure employment on afull term basis.This is despite the fact
that we havecompiledand submittedthe namesofgraduatesfrom our communitiesin
different fields, especiallyin the area ofengineering.

We thereforethink that this projectwill further impoverishthe people ofour
communities. We will loseour lands, which are our only meansoflivelihood, without
adequate compensation, while on the other handwe do not havethe prospectof long
term alternativeemployment. We haveoftenmadethe point that we would notaccept
to be mereonlookers inthis project, andthat we want to bean importantpartofthe
project, but it seemsthat there is a deliberatemoveto push us asidewith one excuse
or the other.




 Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector ManagementAssistance Programme 2004


                                                                                    8

*    Taking into considerationthis situation, the violations ofWorld Bank policies
     documented here which have adversely affectedour rightsandinterests, and the lack
     ofresponseto our concerns, we are requestingthe InspectionPanel recommendto the
     World Bank's Boardof ExecutiveDirectorsthat the Panel undertakean investigation
     ofthe West African GasPipeline.

     We hereby authorizethe Panelto makethis request public.

     27 April 2006

     IFESOWAPOHOSTCOMMUNITIES FORUMON THE WEST AFRiCAN GAS
     PIPELINEPROJECT, Lagos State, representedby:
     HighChiefNuruAshade
     Mr.Toyin Hassan
     Alhaji Alani Ajose
     IsholaHassan

     Contact Address:

     IfesowapoHost Communities Forumon the West African Gas PipelineProject
     c/o BalogunAdinni Shopping Complex, Imeke, OlorundaLocal Council
     DevelopmentArea.
     Badagry Local Government Area, Lagos State, Nigeria.

     Or

     c/o EnvironmentalRightsActiodFriends ofthe Earth-Nigeria
     10 IbaaStreet, OffOkomoko Street, D-Line,Port Harcourt,Nigeria.
     Tel/fax: +234 84 236365
     assumeaeraction.org


     Annexure:

         I. CommunitysignatoriestotherequestforinspectionbytheIfesowapoHost
            CommunitiesForum on the West African Gas PipelineProject
        2. Letter ofconsent by Hassanlsikalu Family of Imeke.
        3. Letter ofconsent by the Idomo-iparaFamily of Ilogbo-Eremi
        4. Open letter to the World BankConcerningthe West African Gas Pipeline,
            December 18,2000




                                                                                      9


      Lagos State, Nigeria.




t.


    ies    ect,




e.


  Monday. December 18,2000


  James D. Wolfensohn
  President
  The World Bank
   I8I8 H Streef, N.W.
   Washington DC. 20433
 , USA


  Dear PresidentJames Wotfensohn,

  We, the undersignedorganisations and individualsfiom around the world, wish to express our solidarity
  with the local communities of the Niger Delta area and Nigerian civil society organisations who have
  rejected the West African Gas Pipelineproject and requestedthat The World Bankshould discontinueany
  support for the project. We share the concerns of the communities that the project would aggravate
  environmenta! devastation, human rights violations, corntnunal conflicts and impoverishmentof the
  communities inthe gas fields andpipelineroute.

e  We understandthat the World Bankfunded the initial feasibility study for the West African Gas Pipeline
  andcontinues to support the project, which will transpor: naturalgas from gas fields in the Niger Deltaof
  Nigeriato special consumers in Benin, Togo and Ghana. The project is beingdeveloped by aconsortiumof
  transnational oil corporationsincludingChevronand Shetl inpartnership with the state owned Nigerian
  National PetroleumCorporation, Ghana National PetroleumCorporation, Societe Beninoisede Gaz and
  Societe Togotaise de Gaz. The partnerssigned agreement for the project in 1999 and constructionofthe
  pipeline is expected to be concluded by 2002. The World Bankhas beenworking with the governmentsof
  Nigeria, Benin, Togo and Ghanato set a fiscal and regulatorystructure to make the project profitable for
  the corporations.

   By continuing to support this project, the World Bank is encouragingthe corporationsand the governments
   involvedto ignore even the most basic processesto prorectthe naturalenvironmentand the livelihood of
  localpopulations. Thoughthe pipelinewill havenegative impacts on the naturalenviranmentand the local
  communities. the communitieshave not been informedabout the nature of the project, as prior consultation
  with the communities is clearly nota consideration for the consortium.Also, a transparent and inciusise
  EnvironmentaiImpactAssessment (EIA) process was not carriedout inall the countries involved. It is
  unfortunate that months after representativesand indigenes of localcommunities in Nigeria's Niger Delta,

delegates fiom Ghana, Benin Republic and Togo as well as concerned NGOs and social movements met in
Effurun, Delta State, Nigeria between 14-1 5 March2000 and protestedthe absence ofcormsuftationand
EIA, Chevrou, the managingsponsorof the project and the Nigeriangovernment have been caving on
with total contempt for the objective fears of the communities.


Consubtion:

Although the project was conceivedbefore 1993 and a Memorandumof Understandingwas signed as far
back as August 1999,ineinbersof the corninunities in the gas fields where Chevron's gas gathering
facilities are located and communities alongthe proposed pipelineroute have beenignorantof the project.
This is because Chevronhas maintaineda high level of secrecy, refUsingto infonn and consult with the
coinmunitiesthat will bear the impacts ofthe project. We, therefore, concludethat Chevronand her
partnersare not willing to address the fears of the cornmunities, whichhave arisenwith the historyof
violations and destructionassociatedwith Chevron and the other transnational oil corporations.Chevron,
the managingsponsor of the W-estAfrican Gas Pipeline, is currentlybeingsued in US. courts for their rde
inaidingand abettingthe Nigerianmilitary in killingandtorturing unarmedcivilians protesterson two
separate occasions, on the Parabe platformand in of Opiaand Ikenyanvillageson May 28, 1998 and
January 4, 1999,respectively.

Similarly, Shell, a member ofthe consortium is responsible for numerouskillings and rights violations in
the Niger Qeltaarea.

Chevronhas failed to give adequate information;n responseto enquiries by civil society organisations in
Nigeria, Ghanaand Togo. The responsesto organisationshave beenscanty and self-contradictory. In some
ofthe responses, Chevronclaim to be committedto consultationwirh host comnunities. However, with
the project billedto coinmenceby 2001 and constructionexpected to beconcludedby 2002, there would
not be enoughtime for adequate consultation consideringthe magnitude of the project and expected
impacts.

For example, in March, 2000, Chevronfailed to show-up in an informationand consultationmeetingto
discuss the WAGP with localcommunities, civil society organisations, media, governmentagenciesand
experts fi-omNigeria, Ghana and Togo, though the independentorganisers had invited the company and
officials ofthe company hadannouncedthat the company wouid be sendingrepresentatives.

Similarly, the Nigerian NationalPetroleumCorporation(NNPC) failed to turn up for the information and
consultationmeetingdespite the prior indicationof willingness to attend during meetingswith the
organisers.

The governmentsof Nigeria, Benin, Togo and Ghanaalso nave notdemonstrated any real commitmentto
consultationwith local communitiesand civil society organisations.

We must point out that a favourable conditionfor democratic participationin decision-makingof local
coinmunitiesdoes not exist inthe Niger Delta area of Nigeria,due to continuinginilitarisation of the area
and centralgovernment legislationthat deprives the local communities of all rights to ownership and
control of land. With the government havingthe power to arbitrarily expropriatecommunal land for oil and
gas development, the peopleare quite powerless to engage inany meaningfulparticipatoryconsultation
with oil companies and the state.

Environment:

The West African Gas pipelineproject, likesimilar projects inthe Niger Deltaarea ofNigeria and other
tropical countries, will surely affectthe naturalenvironmentupon which the communities depend for
survival. The wetiands and the mangrovesthat the pipeline will traverseare universallyregisteredas fragile
ecosjistems. We are all awareofthe devastatingimpacts the reckless activities of Chevron, Shellandthe
other transnationaloil companies invoived inthe exploitationofoil and gas have hadon the natural

   environment aftlie Niger Delta area. tt is worrisome that despite the fact that there are a few iegisiative
   stipulations as to how projects should be organised, the oil companiesand goY&iflil:e!lt agencies aitnosi
   aiways ignore sucti stipulations.

   Though an Enviionmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is a statutory requirement.which sh~~ild          precede
   projects o f this nature inNigeria, Charon has not conductedany EIA for the West African Gas Pipeiine.
   However, gas ssles contracts have either been signed or are being negotiated. That Chevron and its partners
   will conclude agreements for gas sales and project construction before a consideration of the real cost ofthe
   project on the natural environment and the local co:ninunities is unacceptableto us. it should be
   unacceptableto the World Bank.

   The West Africa Gas Pipeiine wiil not contribute towards tile truly sustainabledevelopfnerit of any of the
   coininunities in the targeted countries.The fact is that the gas is not desrined to supply the rea! needs of the
   coininunities but those o f unsustainableindustries. InGhana, the gas will be consumedmainiy by the gold
   mines. The resulr will be the expansion o f unsustainablegold mining activities and the resultant
   exacerbation of environmental degradafionand dcstructioii of iht: iivtriihvod of iocai popuiations. Hencethe
   project is totally contrary to the coinniitinent to sustainabledevelopnaent.

   Furthennore, a?a time when the world needs to decrease its reliance on fossil fuels because ofthe global
   threat of climate change, this project will further increase the world's reliance on fossil fuels.

   We are aware that the project is being promoted as one rhat would contribute to the reduction of gas flaring,
   a serious environmental problemthat has been createdby the oil companiesand the Nigerian governineni.
   It is our position that oil companiesand the government should be responsible for correcting the problem of
   gas flaring, which they have created. Reductiono f gas flaring shoutd not be tied to profit considerations, as
   is the case with the West African Gas Pipeline and similar projects of its kind.

   Despite the claiins ofthe consortim, there is no guarantee that the flaring of ASSOCIATED GAS wiii be
   reducedas a result of the West African Gas Pipeline. Ifthe West African Gas pipeline will collect natural
   gas from special non-associatedgas fieids, as is the case with the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas Project,
   .then there will not be any reasonablereduction of gas flaring. The gas that is flared in the Niger Delta area
   is ASSOCIATED GAS. Any project that will lead to considerablereduction of gas flaring should be based
   on a programmeaimed at collecting associated gas. The responses to the enquiries of civil society
   organisations on this matter indicate that Chevron and other membersof the consortium do not have a clear
   programme for the reduction of flaring of ASSOCIATED GAS.

   Gas flaring by oil companies operating in the Niger Delta area is notjust a problem for the local
   communities. The planet earth is affected as the emission of major greenhousegases swh as carbon dioxide
   and methanefrom this area contribute significantly to the problem of global ciirnate change.Chevron
   accepts the problem that it creates and is promoting the West African Gas Pipeline as a project that wi:i
%.
.  contribule to mitigation of global climate change. Chevron is, therefore, asking for credit under the Clean
   Development Mechanism. However, what this amounts to is that Chevron is asking to be rewarded for
   attempting to solve a problem it created. Resides, without a clear pian for the reduction of the flaring o f
   ASSOCIATED GAS, it would amount to a faulty decision by-_anyone that intends to grant Chevron an)'
   carbon credi: for the West African Gas pipeline. Furthennore. we object to Chevron and other companies
   profiting from reducing gas flaring; M'e believe tk3ecoinmunities ha: surround these flares must be
   coinpensated for years of health and enviro,nrnentaiproblems associated with gas flaring before any
   company profits &on7 gas flare reduction

   Human Rights:

   Despite the recent hand-over of power ir? Nigeria froin military to civilian rule, gave violatiofis o f iiumar!
   rights persist in the Niger Delta area of Nigeria, with increasing brutai repressionof peaceful coinmlinliy
   prolests,extrajudicial executions. detentions without trial. violation o f livelihood etc. Hopes that the current
   civilian goverrament would better dddress the Niger Delta discontent diinined with the massacre. in
   November 1999. of Odi residentsand the total destruction of Odi town by Nigerian soldiers on the orders

    ofthe civilian President,General OlusegunObasanjo.

    Without prior consultationwirh communities and with a perbading climate of insecurity in the Niger Delta
    area, there is no guarantee that kiliings and other rights violationswill not be a consequenceof the West
    African Gas Pipeline Project.

    CommunalChonnict:

    The expropriationof communal landand degradationof communal farmlandand wetlands by Chevronand
    the other oil companies in the Niger Delta area have resulted in scarcity of agricultural land and fishing
    ground. The result has been an increasingcommodificationand competitionfor land. Communalconflicts
    for landhave beenassumingan increasingly violent character with destructionof lives and property.

    Also, with the impoverishmentand political marginalisationof the minority peoples ofthe Niger Delta
    area, demands for self-determinationand resourcecontrol is increasing amongcoininunities in the area.
    Some of the communitieshave openly called on oil companies to withdraw from their areds pendingthe
    resolutionof these issues. With these crises still utlresolved174 the Nigerian State, any ne& project of the
    magnitudeof the West African Gas Pipeline will certainlycontribute to worsening the condition fool
    violence and destruction.

    Basedon the foregoing, and in supportof the localcoininuiiities we demand that the World Bank
    discontinue support for the West Afiica Gas pipeline until:

         I. TheNigerianstate,whichisapartoftheWestAfricanGasPipelineconsortium,addressesthe
              issues of access to land, resourcecontrol, livelihoodsand self-determinationfor communitiesand
              peoples of the Niger Deltaarea;
         2. The Nigerian centralgovernmentdiscontinues its programme of mititarisationof the oit- bearing
             NigerDeltaarea and create a conditionfor democratic participation;
         3.   Chevronand the Nigeriangovernmentaddress the fears ofthe local communities. These fears as
              articulatedby the people themselvesinclude: Tke absence ofan all-inclusive Environmental
              ImpactAssessment, the grave environmental devastation that will result froin the project including
             deforestation,explosions, the fragmentation of habitats and wildlife corridorsand the blocking of
              water bodies, cultural dislocationas weii as economic impoverishment,

    Thank you.




    IsaacOsuoka
    Environmental RightsAction I Oilwatch Africa Network
F.



    cc:

    The President, Federal Republicof Nigeria
    The Presidentof Benin Republic
    The Presidentof Togo
    The Presidentof Ghana
    The President, ChevronCorporation
    The Directorof PCF ofthe World Bank



    Contact Information:

     Isaac Osuoka
     Oifwatch Africa Network
     EnvirontnentalRights Action
     13 Agudaina Avenue, D-Line
     P. 0.Box 13708, Port Harcouat, Nigeria
     TellFak 234 84 236365
     Ennaii: oi!watch(2i11fdneb.abs.nta


     ENDORSINGO R G A N ~ S A ~ I ~ ~ S :

     Aurora Donoso                       Baltimore Emergency                Centre for Participatory
     Aceion Ecologica and                ResponseNetwork                    Rural& Urban
     Oilwatch Secretariat,               BaltimoreMD, USA                   ~       e     ~(CEPRUr    ~  ~  ~  ~
     Quito, Ecuador                                                         Port Harcour-t, Nigeria
                                         fenneke Arens
     Frans Limpens                       Barrgladesh GroIJp                 Oronto Douglas
     Accion Pro Education en             Netherlands                        Chikoko Movement
     DerechosHumans                      Amsterdam, The Netherlands         Yenapoa, Nigeria
    ( A P ~ E N ~ ~ R ~ ~
     Mexico                              BonnieOhia                         Jindrich Petrilik
                                         Bio Earth ~ ~ t ~ r n a t i ~ n ~ iChildren of the Earth (Deti
     Aart van den Hoek                   Port Harcourt, Nigeria             ZWie)
     Action for Solidarity,                                                 Prague, Czech Republic
     Environment, Equality and           Kushi Efunyerni
     Development(ASEED),                 BMS Movement                       PatrickNaagbanton
    Europe                              Nigeria                             Civil Liberties Organisation
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands
                                         Hans Eriksson                      (South
                                                                              C WZone
    Osborn Methus Aiyenumelo             Burkina Faso-Sweden                BeninCity, Nigeria
    Actual Consensional Eight-           Friendship Association
    United, CORE, Ultimate              Sweden                              Grace Akutnu,
    and Major Oil                                                           Climate Network Africa
    ProducingCommunities                Barbara Larcoin                     Nairobi, Kenya
    (ACECUM)                            (Coordinator)
    Sapele, DeltaState                  Casa BaltimordLimay                 Coalition Against Global
                                        Baltimore, USA                      Exploitation (CAGE)
    Rev. David Ugolor                                                       Baltimore,USA
    African Network for                 Beko Ransome-Kuti
    Environmentaland                    Centre for Constitutional
=%.                                                                         Paul Wiliiains
    Economic Justice                    Governance                          Coalition for Peace&
    BeninCity, Nigeria                  Lagos, Nigeria.                     Justice/unplug Salem
                                                                            USA
    Salih Booker                        SamueiNguiffo
    Africa Policy Information           Centre for Environment              Chizor Wisdom Dike
    Center (APILC)                      and Development                     Community Rights
    Washington DC, USA                  (Friends ofthe Earth,               Initiative (CORI)
                                        Cameroon)                           Port Harcourt, Nigeria
    Ann-Kio Opururn Briggs              Yaounde, Cameroon
    Agape is B Birth Right                                                  Charity Gbaragbe
    Port Harcourt,Nigeria               Emilia Cornu Thenard                CompassionateHearts
                                        Center for International            POI?Harcourt, Nigeria
    Atossa Solrani                      EnvironmentalLaw
    AMAZON WATCH                        Washington DC, USA                  Vivian Stockman
    Topanga CA. USA
                                        EinemJ. Okon

    Concerned Citizens'             Environmental Rights            GreenpeaceInternational
    Coalition                       FOCUS                           Amsterdam. The Netherlands
    Spencer, USA                    Sapele, Delta State, Nigeria
                                                                    Martijn Lodewijk
    Bbebi Obene                     Leo Saldanha,                   Green Peace Netherlands
    Concirned Youths of             Environment Support
    ogbogolo                        Group                           Greens Movement of
    Ahoada West, Rivers State,      Bangalore, india                Georgia t Friends of the
    Nigeria                                                         Earth, Georgia
                                    Eto Julius
    DipLlng.Zisula                  Ei-ekeCommunity Dynasty         Ameh LO.
    Cordaches, GrUner Ciirtel       Igbokoda, ilaje LGA             Group for Research&
    Siideuropa e.V.                 Ondo State, Nigeria             Initiatives for
    Germany                                                         The Liberation of Africa
                                    Aiyemo Tunde                    (GRILA)
    Josh Salans                     Etikaw Central Association      Montreal
    CTC s o ~ u ~ ~ o ~ s           Igbokoda, Ondo State.
    Sunnyvale, CA USA               Nigeria                         PameiaFoster
                                                                    Halifax initiative Coalition
    DuIen H. Godwin                 Comfort Lenee                   Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
    Degema Youths Council           Federation of Ogoni
    Degema, Rivers State,           Women AsSQCiatiQn               Ken Kinney,
    Nigeria                         Bori, Rivers State, Nigeria     ICA-Ghana
                                              , /
    Dela Oficina de Incidencia      Agzokou Isisdore                MoharninedAli Ashrag
    Ambiental Centro                Friends of the Earth Benin      IEDS- Friends of the Earth
    Humboidt/                      Coutounou, Benin
    Friendsof the Earth -                                           Bangledesh
                                                                    Dhaka, Bangladesh
    Nicaragua                       Risto Isamaki
                                    Friends of the Earth            PattersonOgon
    Jochen Ricken,                  Finland                         ijaw Council for Human
    Eirene, Internationa1          Turku, Finland                   Rights (ICHR)
    ChristianService for Peace,                                     Port Harcourl, Nigeria
    Gennany                        Noble Wadzah
                                    Friends of the Earth Ghana      Felix tuodolo
    Etuk Udo Sarnpson              Accra, Ghana                     Ijaw Youth Council (WC)
    Eket Rights lnitiative (ERI)                                    Port Harcourt, Nigeria
    Eket, Nigeria                  Gabriel Rivas-Ducca
                                    Friends of the Earth            Dr. Rojis Malismi
    Maxwell Oko
'i.                                 Internatisnalcampaign           IlajeCentral Working
    Eiimotu Movement               On the Environmental &           Committee
    Otuasega, BayelsaState,        SocialImpacts of Minning         lgbokade, Ilaje LGA, Bndo
    Nigeria                                                         State, Nigeria
                                    Paula Palmer
    Jude T. Adonne                 Global Response,                Omotehinse Oluwole
    Environmental Research         USA                              Ikumehinle
    Alliance (EMREAL)                                              liaje/Obe Confederation
    Port Harcourt, Nigeria         Manana Kachladze                and ASICOPIC
                                   Green Alternative               lGBOKODA
    Nrmimino Bassey                Tbilisi, Georgia                Ilaje, Ondo State, Nigeria
    Environmental Rights
    Action (Friends ofthe Earth,   Jen Brock                       Malumi Abimbola (Mrs)
    Nigeria)                       Green Corps                     Ilaje Women Consultative
    BeninCity, Nigeria             Boston, USA                     Forum
                                                                   Igbokoda, Ondo State,
    Ajidibo OlaJudah               Paul Horsman                    Nigeria

                                                                  New HampshireConsumers
    Che 1. Ibe,Owura              MensahFrancoTodzro              Utility Cooperative
    CLAWPIE                       Le3 anis de la 'Terre- Togo     New Hampshire, USA
    Ereina Town, Rivers State,    (Friends of the Earth-
    Nigeria                       Togof                           Diana Bohn
                                  Lome- Togo                      Nicaragua Center for
    FrancisOhu                                                    Community Action
    InternationalCentre for       PrinceUkaine D. Asha            San Francisco Bay Area
    Development &                 M A A ~ / ~ ~ ~ ~ P             JubiIee 2000 Coalition
    EnvironmentalPlanning         Ahoada, Rivers State, Nigeria   USA
    (ICDEP)
    Port Harcouc-t, Nigeria       Alfred0 Quarto                  Rita Clark
                                  Mangrove Action Project         Nicaragua US 'Friendship
    Anyakwee Nsiriinovu           Port Angeles, WA                Office
    instituteof HumaB Rigjhts     USA                             Washington DC, USA
    and ~ u ~ a ~ ~Lawa r ~ a n
                          ~
    (IHRHL)                       Belema Senibo                   Chief Aifred Fubara
    Port Marcourt, Nigeria        Mankind Survival Project        Niger Delta Development
                                  (MSP)                           Project
    Dr. AJ. Akor                  Port Harcourt, Nigeria          Port Harcourt,Nigeria
    lnstitute of Labour and
    Peopk Empowerment             Floriana Pagano                 Kingsley Kpea
    Port;Harcouit, Nigeria         MANUELTESTI-                   Niger Delta Project For
                                   FERLAN";                       Environment, Human
    Martha Hannang                Trieste, Italy                  Rightsand Development
     International Development                                    Nchia Eleme, Rivers State,
     ExchangefDEX                  Sister JoznetteNitz, OP        Nigeria
    San FranciscoCA, USA           MCHRSouthern Africa
                                   Committee                      Jennifer Pere
     Wale Adeoye                   Detroit. USA                   Niger Delta Women for
    Journalists for Democratic                                    Justice (NDWJ)
     Rights (JODER)                Paulde Clerck                  Port Harcourt, Nigeria
     Lagos, Nigeria                ~ilieudefensie(Friends of
                                   the Earth, Netherlands)        Orji Nkechi
     Jason Capeilg                 Amsterdam, The Netherlands     Nigerian Business and
     JSC Activist Coalition                                       Professionat Women
     Johnson VT, USA               Nelson Aziboaianari            Association
                                   Movement for Reparation        Port Harcourt, Rivers State,
     jia ChingChen                 to Ogbiia                      Nigeria
%    Just Act: Youth Action for    Ogbia Town, BayelsaState
     Global Justice                                               Chinedu Karl Uchegbu
     San Francisco, USA            BarisuatamDeeyeh                Nigerian Instituteof
                                   Movemeha For the Survival       Human Rights (NIHR)
     Steve Bradburn                of the Ogoni People             Port Harcouzt, Nigeria
     Kettle Range Conservation     (MOSOP)
     Group                         Port Harcourt, Nigeria          MikeAjayi
     Spokane, USA                                                  Oodua for Nature
                                   Imikubi Lilybox                Conservation (QNAC)
     Sarah Agbey (Mrs)             Nature-Live                     Lagos, Nigeria
     KITE,.Accra,Ghaua             Port Harcourt, Nigeria
                                                                   Kayode Ogundamisi
     Johan Bostnan                 BenedictChuck Ezeagu            Qodua Peoples Congress
     KWIA, Flemish Suppart         Ndigbo Movement                 Lagos, Nigeria
     group for                     Enugu, Nigeria
     lngenous Peoples                                              lsaac Qsuoka
     Belgium                       Roy Morrison

NengiOnyeagucha
Watch the Niger
Port Harcourt, Nigeria

HenryClark
West county Toxics
Coalition
USA

Grace Ebong
Women in Healthand
Development~i~ ~ )   A
Port Harcourt, Nigeria

Tebepah, lbuoho R.
Women In Nigeria
                    ~~~~~

Port Harcourt, Nigeria

Angela Onwaeze
Women Political Action
Committee(W-PAC)
Port Harcourt, Nigeria.

Joe Inyang
Youths Rights Action
Network (YORAN)
Port Warcourt, Nigeria

Soren Ambrose
58 Years Is Enough: U.S.
Networkfor Global
EconomicJustice
USA

j   .




         Oilwatch Africa Network       Ifeoma[heme                    Weri Digifa
         Port Harcourt,Nigeria         I h r a i Health Initiative    Supreme Egbesu Assembty
                                                                      (SEA)
         Yehudi van de Pol             Port Harcoui-t,Nigeria         Yenagoa, Bayelsa State,
         Qilwatch Europe office                                       Nigeria
         Amsterdam. the Netherlands    Dinitry V. Lisitsyn
                                       (Chairman)                     Lea Correa Pinto
         Ezekiel Amachree              Sakhalin Environment           Terrae Civil Society
         Okpolom Imo Engenni           Watch                          Organisation for public
         Akinima, Rivers State         Sakhalinsk, Russia             Interest
                                                                      Brazil
         EtirnAsuquo                   PatrickChiekwe
         Oron Environinentai           Save Earth, Nigeria            Chuck WYKOS~OC~
         Watch                         Port Harcomrt, Nigeria         The Coacerned Citiaens
         Oron, Akwa lbom State,                                       Coalition of Roane,
         Nigeria                       John Bennett                   Calhoun  &iGilmer
                                       Sierra Club of Caoada          Counties
         KemediVon Dimiari             Ottawa, Ontario, Canada        West Virgina, USA
         Our Niger Delta
         Port Harcourt,Nigeria         Amenaghawon Idahosa            Oyinbo Deie
                                       Josephg                        The Concerned Iiaje
         Chilos Godsent                Social dk Economic rights      Citizen (CIC)
         Pan African Youth             Action Center (SERAC)          Warri, Nigeria
         Movement (PAYM)               Lagos, Nigeria
         Port Harcourt, Nigeria                                       HanShan
                                       DeaconArt Donail               The Ruckus Society
         Ubaka EmekaBetram            Social Justice Sr Peace
         Persoas with Disability       Roman Catholic Parish          OpheliaCowell
         Network                       lowa, USA                      The Transnational l n s t ~ ~ u ~ @
         BeninCity, Nigeria                                           Amsterdam, The Netherlands
                                       AloysiusNwuzi
         Carwil James                 Society for Awareness &         Ole Fjord Larsen
         Project Underground          Growth in Etche                 The UnitedPeoples
         Berkeley, USA                 Port Hal-court
                                      Rivers State, Nigeria           Addulai Darimani
         Laura FrameDe Leon                                           Third Wortd Network
         Proyecto Albatros             Peter Young                    Africa
         Venezuela                    Society for Poverty             Accra. Ghana
                                      Alleviation for Africa Rural
         KofiArthur                   Communities (SPAARC)            MikeProkosch
         PublicAgenda                 Calabar, Nigeria                Programme on Globalisation
         Accra, Ghana                                                 Unitedfor a fair Economy
         Quebec, Canada               Anna Weekes                     Boston, USA
                                      South African Municipal
         Chinda0.K                    Workers Union                   Susanne Breitkopf
         Public Interest Lawyers      South Africa                    Urgewald
         Leagrre(PILL)                                                Germany
         Port Harcourt, Nigeria       Morten Nielsen
                                      Southern Africa Contact         UrhoboHistorical Society
         Lany Weiss                   Copenhagen, Denmark             New York, USA
         Labour, Globa1isa:ion &
         Human Rights Project         Renara Blurnberg                Pau! Egbo
         Resource Center of the       Students for Economic &         Urhobo Progress Union,
         Americas                     Environmentaf Justice           North America (UPUNA)
         MinneapolisMN, USA           NY, USA                         Pontiac, USA


                                                                   1818 H Street N.'&.
`                                                                                              f202) 477-1234
   INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTiONAND DEVELOPMENT            VJashington, D.C. 20433      Cable Addrsss: iNTBAFRAD
   INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOClAnON                              U.S.A.                      Cable Address: lNDEVAS




                                                                                       Mach 1,263101


               Mr.IsaacOsuoka
               Environmental RightsActiodOilwatch Africa Network
               13 Agudma Avenue D-Line
               P.O. Box 13708
               Port Harcourt
               Nigeria

               Dear Mr.Bsuoka:

                                       Ref:    Westdfiica GasPipeline Project

                       Thank you for your letter ofDecember 18,2000, addressedto Mr.Wolfensoh
               regardingthe West Afiica Gas Pipeline Project. Mr.W-olfensohnhas askedmeto
               respondonhis behalfto the concerns raisedby your organization andthe organizations
               and individuals listed inthe attachmentto ydur letter. These concernsare basedonthe
               assessment andperceptions ofthe affectedcommunities, andthe listed organizations and
               individuals, that the project would aggravateenvironmental devastation, hwnmrights
               violations, communal conflicts, andimpoverish the communities inthe gas fields and
               alongthe pipelinerouting.

                       This envisagedregionalpipelinerepresentsaninvestment of about US$510
               millionand i s intendedto transport gas from Nigeriato key import terminals inBenin,
               Togo mdGhana. The pipeline, as envisagedby the investors, would extend for.
               approximately 800 km, predominantly offshore, withthe exception of a 57-km link to the
               EscravosLagos Pipeline and spurs to Cotonou, Lome andTema. Initially, the principal
               gas consumers would be Ghana's thermal power generators.

                       The Bankprovided technical assistanceto the governmentso f Ghana, Togo and
        `r     Beninduringthe early phasesofthe project (1995-1999) to helpthese governments
               examine the concept andassess its feasibility. The Bank h d i n g for the technical
               assistance expired inmid-1999. Thus far, the Bank's involvement has beento assist the
               concernedgovernmentsexplore the project idea andthe project's potential contribution
               to the developmentofthe West Africa region. Currently, the World Bankhasno
               commitment to support the project beyondthese initial phases andhas not reflected the
               project inits lendingprogram.

                       Becausethe project's viability depends on a complex set o f technical, economic,
               environmental andsocial factors, discussions are continuing among the sponsors and the
               four governments on the conditions underwhich the project would be feasible. The
               World Bank Group is maintainingcontactswiththe principal parties. For the Bankto be
               inapositionto consider further this project, itwouldhaveto be satisfied that it is


                                            RCA 248423. LQ Wl64145 &I (202) 477-6391
                                                                     FAX

 ,

,    Mr.Isaac Bsuoka                               -2-                            March 1,2001


      technicallv, economically and ~ n ~ cviablea and complies with the Bank's safeguard
                                                   ~     ~ ~ y
      policies aid fiduciary requirements. The responsibility for preparing ei-nvironmental
      assessments, resettlement plans, indigenous people's plans andother documentationrests
      with the project developers. They are fully aware that any omofWorld Bank Group
      supportwoulddepend, among other things, on compliance with Bankpolicies, including
      an analysis of alternatives; and environmental and social management plans to diminish
      adverse effects identified by the environmental and social analyses. These plans would
      also needto adhere to the Bank's guidelines.

             TheBankis committedto public consultation anddisclosure of environmental
      andsocial informationandwould, shouldit consider supporting the project, engage with
      borrowers ina full and open consultationprocess ind31four countries. The Bank's
      procedures require public consultations withpopulations likely to be affected by the
      project andNGOs inthe countries inwhich the project will be sited. The Bank will
      ensure full disclosure o f boththe consultation process andthe outcomes. The procedures
      also require publicdisclosure o f the environmental and social documentationineach of
      the four countries andthrough the World Bank`s InfoShopprior to appraisal o f any
      project proposed for World Bank Group support.

              With regardto concerns about humairightsviolations and communal conflicts, it
      is our experience that poverty reduction and sustainable development will succeed only in
      the presence of open and responsive systems of governance. We are therefore
      committed to ensuring full andopenpublic consultations duringthe preparationo f the
      projects that we support so as to ensure that they do not underminethe welfare o fthe
      affected populations.

              Thus, inthe event the World Bank Group becomes involved, its decision would
      be basedon, amongst other considerations, a full environmental and social impact
      assessmentthat would have to be carriedout, and an environmental andsocial
      management planthat would have to be developed through aparticipatory process and in
      accordance with the B d ' s guidelines andprocedures as explained above.



                                               Sincerely,




                                              PrafulPate1
                                             Sector Director
                                 Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure
                                             Afiica Region

*




     Letter of  ~       ~        ~        $       ~      ~       ~       .
       e have received several complaints From various families and communities about the
     inadequacy of the compensation paid to them in respect of the land acquired by
     WAGPCOfor the West Africa GasPipelineProjects.

     Most of the aggrieved families felt cheated becausethey believe ifthe property were sold
     or leased to individuals around, they must have realized far and above what was paid by
     WAGPCO to them. The payments made fell short ofthe market value expected from the
     property.

     Some of the fmdies havegiven us written consent to complainas evident inthe attached
     letters, while many gave oral consent for usto complain ontheir behaE

     We, at the last meeting held at PMC Hotel, Ota Ogun State, Nigeria resolved to give you
     this letter ofauthority to serve as consent to complain onbehalfof the various famiiies to
     the World Bank in order to seek redress and obtain the market value of the property
     concerned.

     Thank for your eo-aperation.




         Chairman       '                                              Secretary.


                    i . .
    . ,. .... ..




i


     ANNEX I1

MANAGEMENT RESPONSE


 THEWORLD BANWIFG/M. .G.A.



                                                                     - _
    DATE:                                                                              f (
                                                                                       .
                                                                                         1




      TO:                   eiss, Chzirperson, IB      A hspec~ionPanel

    FROM:  GraemeWheeler: ManagingDirector,

EXTENSION: 33720

 SUWECT:




                 ~              ~has reviewed&e Request for Inspection of the~Ghana:
                                            a           g           ~                     ~    ~    ~
           Gas Pipeline Project      A GuaranteeNo. B-006-WHJreceived by the BnspationPanel
           on April 27,2006 an       gistsredon May 2,2006 (R      6/03) The attachedresponse
           beenprepared by ~       ~   n  ato the claims raised~inthis Request.
                                               ~  e   ~    e       ~




           Attachment

           cVcc: Messrs.hbes. G.Gmddini, A. Peuker, A. FoIlrner (MDS); 6.Nznkani
                                  '(rhFRW);H.Schafer (BVP); Y.Ornura (MIG!3X);D.Freestone
                                   (IIEGW); J. Underwood(OPCS); S. Lintner (ESDQC); @.
                                   Milvertsn(EXTCC); M,Womser (AFTPI);J. McIrrtire (I$r"TSD);
                                   H.Ghanem(AFC12);C. PerqueHerlihy (AFRW)

           cc: Messrs./i'lulmes.   P. Wolfowitz (EXC); E.Abbott (PI?);S. Jorgensen(ESDW);C.
                                   DiLeva (LEGEN); A.Bezered (ESDQC); M.Karlsson(MC1Oj;
                                   W. Tcheyan (AFRVP);hl.Apb (AFRW);M.Tod'lnSon
                                   (AFC16);S. Iyer (.AFT?%); W. Waters (AFTSD):M.h y e c
                                   (AFI32.G);S. Sinciaa'r (EF); P. Gupta (WJ;Walton(AFTEG);
                                                                               T.
                                   M.Mmtcvanelli (Ap;lREX);H.VanVeldhuizen        <


                     BANKIMAN
                  REQUESTFOR
              GHANA: WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELINEPROJECT
                        (IDA GuaranteeNo. B-006-0-GH)

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection o f the Ghana: West A.frcan Gas
Pipeline Project (IDA Guarantee No. B-006-0-GH), received by the InspectionPanel on
April 27,2006 andregistered on May2,2006 (RQ06/03). Management has prepared the
following response.


                                                      CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms               .........................................................................................         iv
I. Ilatroduction..............................................................................................................              1
11. The Request ................................        ............................................................................        1
In. ProjectB~ackgrollmd............................................................................................... 2
IV. SpecialIssues ............................................................................................................
V. ManagementAction Plan                    ......................................................................................         &I,,{-iGsG-
                                                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                                                              ,


VI. Management's Response                  ......................................................*....a...........e          .............
                                                                                                                                         t.20


Annex

h e x 1. ClaimsandResponses
Annex 2. ConsultationsduringEA andRAPPreparation
Annex 3. ChronologyofKey SafeguardEvents
Annex 4. WAGP CommunityDevelopmentProgram- List ofYear OneParticipants


M a p
Map 1.    LBRDNo. 34806, Requestfor Inspection:West AfricanGasPipelineProject




                                                              ...
                                                              111

       ABBREVIATIQIVSAND ACRONYMS

AG            Associated gas
AgiP          NigerianAgip OilCompany Limited, a subsidiary
              o fEniS.p.A.
bbl           Barrel
CDP           CommunityDevelopment Program
C W           ChevronNigeria Limited
DFlD          Department for InternationalDevelopment(United
              Kingdom)
EA            EnvironmentalAssessment
ECOWAS        Economic Community ofWest African States
EITI          Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
Elf           ElfPetroleumNigeriaLimited, a subsidiaryof
              TOTAL .A.
ELPS          Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System
EMP           EnvironmentalManagement Plan
ERA           Environmental]Rights Action
ERR           Economic Rate o fReturn
ESMP          Environment and Social Management Plan
EXT           ExternalAffairs Department
FOE           Friendsofthe Earth
FGN           Federal Government ofNigeria
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GGFR          Global Gas FlarhgReductionPublic-Private
              Partnershp
GTA           Gas Transportation Agreement
HSEMP         Health, Safety, andEnvironment Management
              Plms
IDA           InternationalDevelopment Association
m             InternalRate ofReturn
MIGA          Multilateral Investment GuaranteeAgency
m t u         MillionBritish thermal units
MMscf         Millionstandardcubic feet
NAG           Non-associated gas
NEPAD         NewPartnership for Africa's Development
N-Gas         N-Gas Limited
NGC           NigerianGas Company
NGO           Nongovernmental Organization
NN-PC         NigerianNationalPetroleum Corporation
NPV           Net PresentValue
OPIC          OverseasPrivate Investment Corporation
OPTS          OilProducer Trade Section (of the Lagos Chamber
              ofCommerce and Industry)
PAD           Projcct Appraisal Document




                    i V

Producers      NNPC, CNL, SPDC, Elf, andAgip, organizedin
               two joint ventures (NNPCICNLand
               NNPCISPDCIElEI Agip)
WAP            ResettlementAction Plan
ROW            Rightofway
SoToGaz        SocieteTogolaisede Gaz SA (Togo Gas Company)
SPDC           Shell PetroleumDevelopmentCompany o fNigeria
               Limited
Sponsors       CNL, NNPC, SPDC, VRA, [and, subject to the
               exerciseof options,] BenGaz, andSoToGaz
TOR            T m s ofReference
Transporters   NGC andWAPCo
Valco          Volta Aluminum Company
VRA            Volta RiverAuthority
WAGP           West Afkican GasPipelineProject
WAPCO          West Afkican Gas Pipeline Company Limited
WAPP           West Africa Power Pool


                               I. INTRODUCTION

1.     On May 2, 2006, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ 06/03 (hereafter referred to as the "Request9'), concerning the Ghana: West
Afrdcan Gas Pipeline Project (WAGB)-IDA           Guarantee No. B-006-0-GH-a     private
sector investment project for which the International Development Association (the
Bank) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) have provided
guarantees.

2.     Stpucture oftbe Text. The document contains the following sections: Section I1
outlines the Request for Inspection; Section 111provides sector and project background;
Section N discusses special issues, Section V presents Management's Action Plan and
Section VI contains the conclusion. Annex 1 presents the Requesters' claims, together
with Management's detailed responses, in table format. Annex 2 contains the
consultations held during preparation o f the Environmental Assessment (EA) and
Resettlement Action Plan    w);Annex       3 is a chronology of key safeguard events; and
Annex 4 provides infomation on the first year o f the community development program
QCDP).



                                 11.    THE REQUEST

3.     The Request for Inspectionwas submitted by the Ifesowapo Host Communities
Forum o f the West African Gas Pipeline Project (the "Association")        through their
representatives fiom the Olorunda Local Government Area o f Lagos State, Nigeria
(hereafter referred to as the "Requesters"). The Request was submitted on behalf of the
members o f the Association, which is composed o f twelve communities that will be
affected bythe project inLagos andinOgunStates inSouthwesternNigeria.

4.     Attached to the Request are:

       (a)     Community signatories to the Request for Ins2ection by the Ifesowapo
               Host Communities Forumon the West Aj%can Gas PipelineProject
       (b)     Letter o f consent
       (c)     Letter o f consent

       (d)     Open letter to the World Bank Concerning the West African Gas Pipeline,
               December 18,2000.

5.     N o further materials were received byManagement insupport ofthe Request.

6.     The Request contains claims that the Panel has indicated may constitute violations
bythe Banko fvarious provisionsofitspoliciesandprocedures, includingthe following:

           OP4.01, EnvironmentalAssessment, January 1999, revisedAugust 2004

ManagementResponse



        0   OD 4.15, PovertyReduction, December 1991

        0   OP 4.12, InvoluntaryResettlement, December 2001, revised April 2004

        0   OP .10.04, Economic EvaluationofInvestment Operations, September 1994

        e   OP/JBP 13.05, Project Supervision, July 2001

        0   World BankPolicy onDisclosure o f Information, 2002.



                           111.    PROaCT BAGKG

 7.     The project was conceived by the Economic Community of West Arican        States
(ECOWAS) inthe early 1980s to help improve the economic competitiveness ofthe four
participatingcountries, andto accelerateregional economic growth and integration inthe
West Afiica region. The project was designed to substitute inexpensive and
environmentally fiendly natural gas &om Nigeria for expensive alternate fuels used by
the power, industrial, mining, commercial sectors of Benin, Ghana, andTogo. Inkeeping
with its goals, the project is expected to lower energy costs, thereby improving the
competitiveness of goods and services. I t also complements other regional efforts inthe
energy sector, such as the West Africa Power Pool (WAPP), which supports increased
electricity trade. It i s part o f the action plan o f the New Partnership for Afiica's
Development (NEPAD) and i s actively supported by ECOWAS. It required strong
private sector participation and a treaty among the four host countries to allow this
investment bythe private sector to go forward.

8.      Project Objectives. WAGP will contribute to: (a) improving the competitiveness
of the energy sectors in Benin, Ghana, and Togo by promoting the use o f cheaper and
environmentally cleaner gas from Nigeria in lieu o f solid and liquid fuels for power
generation andother industrial, commercial uses, anddiversifying energy supply sources;
and(b)fostering regionaleconomic integration that would support economic growth, and
inparticularthe development oftheWest M c aelectricity market.

9.     Economic indicators for trackingresults are: (aj decreaseinthe averagewholesale
cost o f electricity supply in Benin, Ghana, and Togo compared to the `kithout gas"
scenario; and (b) increase innumber of large, medium, and small gas customers inBenin,
Ghana, and Togo. Physicalindicators for monitoring relate to: (a) physical completion o f
regional gas pipeline and o f spurs into Benin, Ghana, and Togo, including m a b
connections to target power plants; and (b) expanded volume o f energy trade in the
region, measured in terms of gas exports from Nigeria. Institutional and regulatory
indicators relate to harmonization o f the regional institutional, legal, and regulatory
framework to increaseprivate sector participationinthe gas sector.

10.    Project Description. The WAGP project includes: (a) a new pipeline system (678
km long) that will transport natural gas from Nigeria to Ghana, Togo, and Benin; (b)
spurs to provide gas to power generating units inGhana, Benin, and Togo; (c) conversion


                                             2

                                                                         WestAJi.iccan GasPipeline Project



o f existingpower generating units to gas; and (d) additional compression investments, as
needed,

11.     To meet the expected market potential o f about 450 MRlscElday, the new pipeline
is 20 inches indiameter. The main trunk o f the offshore pipeline has beenplaced onthe
seabedinwater depths rangingfkom 26 to 70 meters, at an approximate distance o f 15 to
20kilometers from the shore. At three locations, connections will bemade from the main
offshore trunk to lateral spurs (8-inch diameter or greater), which will transport gas to
delivery points at or near Cotonou (Benin), Lome (Togo), and Tema (Ghana). The final
terminal o fthe proposed pipeline system i s at Takoradi (Ghana).

12.     The WAGP project is a private sector project, Current shareholders o f the West
Afkican Gas Pipeline Company (WAPCo), the special purpose company established to
implement the project, are Shell, Chevron, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
N T C ) , Volta River Authority (VRA) of Ghana, BenGaz o f Benin, and SotoGaz o f
Togo (collectively, the Sponsors). The project includes a number o f contracts for the
design, engineering, construction, ownership, operation and maintenance, oversight, and
political risk mitigation o f the new pipeline; contracts for the purchase of natural gas by
N-Gas from the upstream producers, for the transportation of natural gas by the
transporters, and for the sale of foundation amounts o f natural gas to VRA and
Communautk Electricit6 du Benin(senin Electricity Company); and contracts to prepare
the E A s and RAPSin each o f the four host countries. N-Gas Limited (a special purpose
vehicle) Will contract for the purchases o f natural gas at interface points on the Escravos-
Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS) from the upstreamproducers. The NigerianGas Company
(NGC) will transport the gas on the ELPS. WAPCo has the responsibility for transporting
gas fiom the interface point with the ELPSpipeline (inwestern Nigeria) to Benin, Ghana,
and Togo. This new pipelineproject does not include the operation o f the ELPS nor any
investments for the extraction o fhydrocarbons (oil and/or gas) from the ground.

                            Value Chain for FoundationCustomers
                                          I




               Joint Venture                 Roduurs




                                                            Communautk         Volta River I
                                      FoundaiionOfftakers Electriquedu Bknin   Authority   I




                                                  3

Management Response


13.     Pipeline Cost and Financing. The Sponsors currently estimate the construction
costs*.o fthe pipeline to be about US$495 million (compared to about US$ 518millionat
Board approval); additional compression-related costs (which would be needed if the
capacity requirement grows fiom the initial 200,000 MMBtu/day to the 474,000
MMBtw'day target set by the Sponsors under the agreed demand forecast) are estimated
to be about US$ 110million over 20 years. As the Project Appraisal Document @'PAD)
notes, the project hasbeen financed by the Sponsors of the pipeline inproportionto their
ownership o f WAPCo2-through              direct equity and shareholder loans to WAPCo.
Subsequent compression-related capital expenditures are expected to be financed by cash
flow fiom operations. WAPCo will recover its investments through gas transportation
charges underits Gas Transportation Agreements (GTAs) with N-Gas (and other possible
Mure shippers). NGC will recover its investments and additional costs through
transportation charges under its GTAs with N-Gas. Under these GTAs, NGC has agreed
to make contracted capacities available for WAGP, the absence o f which will result in
penalties. Any costs that the upstream gas Broducers or NGC incur for operations and
maintenance, upgrades, investments, etc., are not part o f project costs and will be funded
by such parties at the time. The upstream Producers will recover their investments and
other costs through gas sales under their contracts with N-Gas or any other entity that
ships gas throughWAGP.

14.     Bank Group Participation. Early due diligence o f the project carried out by the
Bank Group concluded that the project was unlikely to go ahead without Bank Group
participationbecause o f the private sector's perceptions o f political risks involved inthe
project, especially the payment risk by VRA and CEB (the foundation offtakers for gas
purchasesinGhana, Togo and Benin). To meet the requirements o f the project, IDA and
MIGA have structured guaranteesto backstop a portion of the payment due by Ghana to
WAPCo inthe event o f early termination o fthe offtake agreements for failure to pay. All
commercial risk is assumed by WAPCo under this structure. IDA has provided a
guarantee o f up to US$50 million andMIGA has provided a guarantee o f up to US$75
millionto WAPCo to back payment obligations o f the Government o f Ghana. WAPCo i s
also the beneficiary of similar insurance structures from Zurich (with reinsurance from
OPIC) to back the payment obligations o fthe Governments o f Ghana, Togo, andBenin.

15.     Economic Benefits of WAGP. In addition to substantial savings and additional
revenues from gas sales in Nigeria and tax and dividend revenues in all countries, gas
availability is expected to improve access to less expensive and more reliable energy
services in the three consuming countries. This should have significant spillover
implications for regionaleconomic development by: (a) improving the competitiveness o f
domestic industries, thereby facilitating GDP growth and increases in employment; and
(b) providing opportunities for increased regional trade, and fostering regional stability



1Excludingother WAPCo costs suchas developmentexpenses, charges, ikurancepremiumsand
contingencies.
2The developmentpartners,IDA, MIGA andOverseasPrivate Investment Corporation(OPIC) have
providedguarantees/insurancesupport to the project.IDAhasnotprovidedcredits in supportofthe project.




                                                  4

                                                                WestAfrican GasPipeline Project



and cooperation. The WAGP project will help to reduce poverty through its impact on
overall economic improvement andgrowth andlower energy prices.

16.     The direct economic benefits from the project are expected to be significant. The
analysis o f various alternatives to the project has concluded that the transportation o f
Nigerian gas to Benin, Ghana, and Togo via the proposed pipeline is the most cost-
effective means o f meeting the anticipated growth inregional energy demand. Two gas
demand scenarios were designed to assess the economic benefits arising out o f the
WAGP project. A low demand scenario assumed that Valco (an aluminum smelter in
Ghana that, until recently, consumed about 30 percent o f current power generation)
operations will never restart; a highdemand scenario assumedthat Valco operations will
restart before first gas with all four potlinesoperational.

17.     Inlate2004(prior to Boardapproval), theWAGFprojectas awholewas foundto
be economically and commercially viable inboth scenarios o f gas demand-low           demand
andhghdemand.3As a whole, the project showed a positive economic net present value
o,        at a real discount rate o f 10 percent, o f US$ 1.421 billion (excluding the
environmental benefits) and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 24.9 percent in the
low demand scenario, and a positive NPV (at 10%) of US$2.021 billion and an ERR of
31.4 percent in the high demand scenario. The sensitivity analysis carried out indicated
that the economic return o f the project was fairly insensitive to changes inoperating and
cqpital expenditures buthighly sensitive to significant dropsfincreases inthe international
price o f crude oil. Since 2004, prices of crude oil have increased significantly (almost a
threefold increase) and all indicators are that prices will continue to remainhigh.

18.     For the purposes of comparison, the Bank has carried out a simple review o f the
economic benefits for the participatingcountries inthe low demand scenario at a constant
oil price of USD50rOarrels (bbl) over the next 20 years. Compared to the estimated
overall project economic benefits o f about US$ 1.421 billion in NPV terms at Board
approval in 2004, the project will yield about US$ 3.534 billion (in 2004 terms). The
table providedbelow compares the direct economic benefits to project participants (inthe
low demand scenario) under the two different si! forecasts, highlighting the extremely
positive direct economic and financial benefits of the project to all participants, and also
highlightingthe fairness and equitability of the sharing of these benefits, which accrue
largely to the four participating countries. For all practical purposes, the WAGP project
has little or marginal upside for WAPCo in a high crude oil price scenario, i.e., the
private sector project sponsor, WAPCo, reaps little benefit from highoil prices.




 BasedonJuly 2004 WorldBankoilpriceprojections:nominal forecaststarting withUSD24.00/barrel in
2007 to USD25.25 in2015, USD 25.75 in2020 andUSD 27.25 in2026.




                                               5

ManagementResponse



                             Ghana       Ddigerla   Togo     Benin        Private     Psojed
                                                                      Partleipants      888
                                                                                      who!%
 LowDemandScenario EconomicBenefitsto Project Parficipants fatSoardApprovalin 2004)
                        -
 Total NetEconomic
 Benefits                     2,568        1,247     827      675         1,229        8,545

 NPV Q 10%                    549          292       I92      149          238         1,421
 EconomicIRR
 Low DemandScenario EconomicBenefits toProjectParticipants(at constant OS$50h&l of
                        -     35.8%       29.6%     66.6%    51.5%        19.5%        24.9%

 crudeprices.I4
 Total Net Economic           6,510        2,367    2,247    1,503        $,293       4 3,920
 Benefits
 NPV @ 10%                    1,703        621       590      361          258         3,534
 Economic1RR                  92.3%       45.2%    130.4%    94.4%        20.2%        40.0%

19.      In addition, the project is expected to increase the diversification of export
markets for Nigeria and increase energy security in Benin, Ghana, and Togo, and in the
West Afiica region. Exports o f gas to the other three countries will provide Nigeria with
another export market. For Benin, Ghana, and Togo, in addition to hydroelectric power
and imported petroleum products, the gas will provide smother energy source.
Availability o f WAGP natural gas should also allow the WAPP to make reliable
electricity available to manymore areas and customers inthe region, allowing migration
to cleaner gas-fired power generation to satisfy regional power demand, an3 to reduce
power generation costs substantially.

20.      Environmental Benefits. At the regional and local levels, overall emissions of
greenhouse gases and air pollutants are expected to diminish as a result o f WAGP,
resulting in improved air quality at the global, regional, and local levels, and related
improvements in public health and quality o f life. The projected decline in overall
emissions o f greenhouse gases, according to the EAs, ranges between 86 million metric
tons and 11million metric tons COz equivalent over a 20-year period, depending on the
assumptions made about &ture economic growth and associated energy consumption in
the four countries. Overall regional emissions o f other air pollutants will also decline
under either scenario. WAGP will make a small but meaningful contribution to reduction
o f gas flaring by transporting annually an estimated 1billion cubic meters o f associated
gas (AG), some or all o f which i s currently flared (roughly 5 percent o f the total amount
o f gas that is flared inNigeria). Emissions o f particulates, oxides o f sulfur and nitrogen,
andunburnedhydrocarbons will decrease inNigeria as currently flared gas is instead sent
out ofthe country for cleaner combustion inBenin, Ghana and Togo. Ambient air quality
should therefore improve in the gas production areas as routine flaring i s reduced.
Emissions o f air pollutants in Benin, Ghana, and Togo will depend on the assumptions
that are made regarding the levels o f future development, but even if increases occur,
they would be expected to be less than would be the case with oil-fired or coal-fired
generation.



 Currentprices for BrentCrude oil are aboutUS$70per barrel.




                                                 6

                                                              WestAfizcan GasPipeline Project



21.     Regional Economic Integration. WAGP is the first project in the West Afiica
region to develop regional exports o f natural gas andwill illustrate andpromote regional
econokic integration. Through the normalization o f technical and other specifications
andofthe regulatory frameworks, itwill also facilitate energy trade amongthe countries.
These benefits are difficult to quantify as they include establishing a new level of
regional cooperation and economic integration to enhance regional stability, and
cultivating ECOWAS as a regional economic cooperative agency. By supplying gas to
regional power providers, WAGP also supports the WAPP, another regional energy
sector initiative that will also bringabout substantial cooperation and integration.

22.     Sources of Nattlrab Gas. Nigeria's proven natural gas reserves (associated and
non-associated) are conservatively estimated at about 125 trillion cubic feet. About 1,300
billion cubic feet o f these reserves are produced annually, o f which nearly 75 percent i s
AG and much of which is flared (2,500 hrlMscf7day). This gas could meet much of the
power generation requirements o f Sub-Saharan Afi-ica,     outside South Africa. All of the
gaspurchasedbyN-Gasfor delivery inthe newpipelinefor about the first 10years ofthe
project (Le., until the earlier o f 10 years or reserved capacity reaches 200 MMscUday,
and open access begins) will be purchased from the producers. It is expected that all of
this gas will come from existing operations in the Escravos area on the western side of
the Niger Delta andwill be sold to N-Gas at the sevenpoints o f interface with the ELPS
(Escravos Gas Plant, Escravos Beach, Jones Creek, Odidi, Oben, Utorugu, and the
planned connection at Ughelli). This gas i s expected to be about 60percent A6 initially,
declining to about 40 percent AG aRer 20 years, much o f which would have been flared
without the development o fproductiveuses for gas, including WAGP.

23,     Project Sttztus. The project has been under construction since January 2005.
WAGP contractors for line pipe supply and for concrete weight coating have
substantially completed their scope of work, while the offshore installation is still
working toward a completion date later this calendar year. However, the onshore
contractor is currently behind schedule on its contract due to slow equipment
mobilization and procurement o f compressors, and it i s expected that final completion
will be a few months later thanoriginally planned. Free flowing gas may be available by
the end of 2006 but a fully operational pipeline is not expected to be available until the
thirdquarter of2007.

24.     Although WAPCo has incurred several deviations in capital cost items versus its
original budget, the construction cost of the project is expected to remain within budget.
The delay incompletiono f the pipelinehowever, may cause some additional costs due to
increasedworking capital needs. WABCo hasbegunits training programofoperation and
maintenance workers, which should result incertification o f WAPCo's entire local O&M
workforce in various aspects o f gas transmission operations in advance of first gas
deliveries.

25,     Final preparations for major onshore construction activities in Nigeria are
underway. These include right ofway (ROW) clearing and grading as well as the grading
for access roads. The site o fthe Lagos Beachcompressor station has been graded andtest




                                              7

ManagementResponse


piles driven. The final shipment o fpipe for the Nigeria onshore section was scheduled to
arriveinearly May.

26.     Given the highprice o f cmde oil, WAGP gas i s very attractive to the consuming
countries. WApCo is continuing to pursue opportunities aggressively and forecasts
growth in excess o f 100 MMscflday for 2008-2009. Interconnections with gas buyers
(power plants) in Ghana are on track, while those in Togo and Benin are lagging. In
addition, the Banki s also pursuingsupport for activitiesrelated to the development o fthe
regulatory environment for local gas distribution agenciesto enable the use o fWAGP gas
for industrialand other uses, beyondthe power sector.



                                IV.     SPECIAL ISSUES

27.     The Bank recognized that in working with a private-sector special pwpose
company to execute a project o f this size, there were both opportunities and risks. The
opportunity lay in the substantial resources o f its major investors--capital,   technical
capacity, swift decision-making, lessons learned from prior experience in Nigeria and
elsewhere in the world, and corporate commitments to protect the natural and human
environment faom the adverse impacts such development projects can cause. This
combination o f resources i s rarely available to projects executed by public sector
borrowers. The risk was that WAPCo, driven by a tight preparation schedule and the
escalation incosts to investors that could arise fiom delay, would forge ahead according
to its own procedures and the requirements imposed by the four host governments,
paying insufficient attention to Bank Group safeguards procedures. In particular, with
investments In components in each o f four countries, the private sector investors were
obligedto abide by the rules and regulations for EA, consultation, and disclosure as laid
out by each host country, andprepare a separate EA for review, comment, and approval
ineachjurisdiction.

28.    The Bank's effort has focused on maximizing opportunities and safeguarding
against risks. Therefore, the Bankhas guided the project sponsors in preparing a regional
EA, which integrates the findings of each country-specific EA that the sponsor was
obliged to prepare. The regional EA also contributes supporting analyses which were not
directly related to the specific project investment (and therefore not appropriate for the
project sponsors to assess) but which helped to provide a broader understanding o f the
context for the project in the oil and gas and power sectors in the host countries. The
outcome is a well-prepared project with safeguards that meet World Bank requirements,
with implementation arrangements and funding for satisfactory implementation during
construction and operation ofWAGP. Several factors were key to the achievement of this
outcome.

29.    Early and Continuous Engagement of Senior Bank Safeguard Stas Senior
Bank safeguards staff from the Quality Assurance and Ccsmpliance Unit and the
Environment unit o f the Legal Department, along with the two regional safeguards
coordinators that served inthe region duringpreparation, worked directly with the Bank's



                                             8

                                                               WestApican GasPipeline Project


WAGP team, WAPCo and its consultants, and MEA'Ssafeguard specialists, inreview
and oversight of the safeguards work. These staff members were involved prior to
prepGation o f the T m s o f Reference (TORS)for the EA and RAP through negotiations
of the key legal agreements and presentation o f the project to the Board. Three senior
members of this team comprised the first field mission for safeguard supervision inJune
2005. The Bank team has followed up on all but two o f the actions recommended by the
mission: the analysis of the adequacy of compensation i s still.underway and the expert
panelhasnot yet beendeployed to examine the compensation complaints.

30.     Suficient Timeto UndertakeSq5eguard.v Work. The Bankresistedpressure from
the private investors and the client governments to take the project to the Board in an
unreasonably short time that would have compromised the quality of the Bank's review
o f safeguards compliance, including consultation anddisclosure.

31.     n o r 0      and Timely Guidance on Safeguards Policies. Senior Bank and
MIGAstaff participated innumerous meetings andteleconfepences, some initiatedbythe
Bank and many requested by WAPCo, to ensure that safeguards work was consistent
withrelevant OPs andBPs.

32.     Private Sector Capacity and Motivation to Maintain Due Diligence and
Oversight Most of the consultations and field visits were conducted by WAPCo and its
consultants. A social safeguards specialist from the Bank conducted field visits to all
locations prior to the inception o f work on the EA and RAP. MIGA environmental and
social specialists made field visits and attended the public hearings that were held on the
first draft o f the EA. The Bank's External Affairs Department (EXT) held consultations
inall four countries while the second drafts of the EA and RAP were inpreparation.
Bank environmm-tal, social and community development specialists conducted field
visits to all locations and visited communities involved in WAPCo`s consultation
processes to get a firsthand appreciation of the people's concerrs and assess whether
consultation and disclosure hadbeen adequate. The arrangements for supervision rely on
WAPCo to oversee contractor performance in implementing the Environmental
Management PlanPMP)and to hire consultants to conduct independent monitoring and
independent audits o f its own performance. Superimposed on this structure are normal
Bank supervision missions and a planned independent Environmental and Social
Advisory Panel.

33.     Engaging with Stakeholders. The Bank has been aware of many o f the issues
raised in the Request and these have been incorporated in World Bank Group due
diligence, appraisal, and local consultations. Some of the issues raised in the Request
were communicated to the Bank consultation appraisal mission in 2004 at Badagry and
discussed there again inthe safeguards supervision mission in2005. The Bank provided
directions to WAPCo on these concerns and is undertaking an analysis of the
compensation concerns raised in the supervision mission. Many o f the broader issues,
including the project's impact on gas flaring, the safety o f the ELPS, the environment in
the Niger Delta, andthe alleged loss o f livelihood, were discussed with nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) duringtwo EXTmissions betweenFebruary andApril, 2004. They
also were publicized in a press release from Friends of the Earth (FOE) and



                                              9

Management Response


Environmental Rights Action (ERA) on April 19, 2004. The Bank discussed them at a
meetiFgwithFOE(US), ERA andthe BankInformationCenter @IC) inWashington, on
April 19, 2004 and met with FOE Nigeria and E M during the consultation appraisal
mission inOctober, 2004 for further discussion. FOENigeria and ERA were invitedbut
not available to meet with the Bank inLagos inJune 2005. These broad issues also were
addressed in the EA, the economic and financial analysis, and other supporting studies
andthe results are presented insubstantialdetail inthe PAD.

TRANSPARENCY:      CONSULTATION, DISCLOSURE, BANK SUPERVISIONAND
PREPMUTION

34.     Management considers that extensive consultations were held and concerns well
documented and presented in a balanced manner. Management believes that
compensation was adequately covered in consultations but agrees that Yoruba
translations of summary RAPSand Ems were not disseminated, as requested by the
Bank inits supervisionmission ofJane 2005.

35.     WAPCo and its consultants conducted twenty-five formal consultations in
communities along the pipeline ROW in Nigeria concerning all matters covered in the
EA. There were twenty additional consultations organized exclusively for the RAP.
Safeguards anb'or EXT staff from the Bank and MIGA visited Nigeria four times during
preparation and once during supervision, consulting with communities on each occasion
andNGOs onmost ofthem. Two ofthe BankandMIGAmeetingswere organizedbythe
Consortium of WAGP Project Host Cornmities (hereinafter the "Con~ortium'~)at Otta.
The Consortium i s an umbrella organization that apparently includes the Requesters as
well as fora o f communitiesaroundIgbesaandOtta. Records show that at least sixteeno f
the WAPCo meetings were held in communities listed inthe Request, and twelve more
meetings for groups of communities were held at Badagry, Otta, or Igbesa. There were
numerousinformal contacts between WAPCo's community relations representatives and
various communities. The CDPs were prepared in a participatory manner, including an
initial needs survey, a second survey by a consultant to update and refine the needs list,
negotiations with community leaders basedon a proposal fi-om WAPCo, andpreparation
o f anM O Uwith signatureso f the community headand WAPCO's managing director. In
Nigeria, the MOU for the first year program was executed betweenthe Consortium and
WAPCo and i s dated December 30,2005. NGOs are being contractedto assist WAPCo
andthe communitiesinimplementingthe CDPs. Onsafety, anissueofparticular concern
to communities, WAPCo heldcommunity meetings inFebruary2006, issuedthe system-
wide Emergency Response Plan in May 2006, and will conduct awareness-raising
meetings with communities when site-specific response plans (e.g., for the compressor
station at Badagry) areprepared, beginninginthe third quarter ofcalendar year 2006.

36.     DrupEA. The first draft ofthe EAfor Nigeriawas disclosedat national, stateand
local government offices inJanuary 2004, before the EA hadbeen clearedby the Bank,
inpreparation for public hearings heldby the Federal Government ofNigeria (FGN) in
March2004. It was regardingthis disclosurethat persons seeking access to the document
at Badagry encountered difficulties, but these were swiftly correctedby WAPCo once it
learned o f them. After clearance by the B d , the final drafts of the EA and RAP were


                                            10

                                                               WestAfflcan Gas Pipeline Project



disclosed at eleven locations in Nigeria, including Badagry local administration and on
WAPCo's andthe Bank's website, and copies were providedto various NGOs. WApCo
verified the presence o f the documents at the disclosure locations, and the Bank is not
aware o f any problems with public access to them. The detailed Environmental and
Social Management Plan ( E S W ) for Nigeriaprepared inMay 2005 i s also on WApCo's
website. The signed memorandum o f understanding for the CDPs has been returned to
the communities and will be disclosed on the W M C o website and at the Bank's
InfoShop.

37.     There was also strong continuity in the senior Bank staff overseeing and
supporting safeguards work during preparation. In all, there were twenty-five
documented meetings and teleconferences between the Bank and WAPCo and its
consultants, the first o f which was in April 2001, nearly two years before detailed
discussions on the TO& for the EA andRAP. The Bank was thus ina positionto advise
WAPCo on design and content o fbaseline environmental studies that were initiatedprior
to the preparation o f the EA itself. Two years o f baseline data were collected, which i s
desirable for a project o f this type but usually resisted by investors on tight schedules.
Although the Bank recognized the significant benefits o f local disclosure and
consultation on an early draft of the EA by WAPCo, it also understood-given                the
significant social and political sensitivity o f World Bank. Group involvement with a
private sector investment inthe oil and gas sector inNigeria-the      importance of having
anextremely highqualitydraft.

38.     Disclosure. WAPCo disclosed its preliminary December 2003 draft inearly 2004
for the Nigeria public hearings, but Bank clearance for disclosure at the Bank InfoShop
was not given until June 2004. By that time, a second draft, with major revisions
including the addition of inputs fiom local consultations and public hearings on the
preliminary drafts, had been submitted, and the deficiencies identified in a second
intensive Bank review were corrected in a final draft. Inaddition, a regional EA was
prepared at the request o f the Bank, which viewed it as a requirement for a project o f this
name. Duringthis period, WAPCo investors were pressing for clearance and disclosure
inorder to meet their target date for a final investment decisionandto avoid areported
escalation ofUS$25 million inthe price o f steel for the pipeline. The RAP went through
similar review, with the first drafi reviewed and commented on extensively by Bank staff
in April 2004, and the next draft substantially improved and expanded, including the
compensation calculation methodology, prior to clearance by the Bank for disclosure in
June 2004.

39.     Supervision. WAPCo has implemented the multi-tiered supervision arrangements
described in the EA and the PAD. The Bank has received eleven monthly reports from
W-APCo that include progress on ESMP and RAP implementation. Three independent
monitoring missions to assess safeguards implementation have been conducted by
com~ltants.~ WAPCo has submitted the reports on the first two to the Bank. The two


 Conductedby ERMHouston office (September 2005) andNewfields LasVegas office (December 2005
andMarch2006): respectively; bothunder contractto WAPCo.




                                                11

Management Response



monitoring reports submitted to date do not indicate any significant environmental
problems. It is important to note, however, that no construction work had begun in
Nigeria at the time of the site visits, and so while this finding is evidence o f good
environmental management performance on the part o f WAPCo and its contractors, it i s
not specific to Nigeria. The report for the third mission, which was completed inMarch
2006 and i s directly relevant to Nigeria, is currently being prepared. The monitoring
reports also state that RAP implementation has proceeded smoothly, with few
complaints, but their attention was mainly to the procedures and recordkeeping. They
describe the methodology for determining compensation, for example, but do not assess
its adequacy and apparently were unaware that there was dissatisfaction with amounts
paid inNigeria. These concerns must be addressed inthe independent impact assessment
and final audit of resettlement, compensation, and restoration of livelihoods requiredby
QP 4.12 and described in the RAP, which is scheduled for September 2006. The
consultingteam for the first o f the independent health, environment and safety audits to
which WAPCo committed itself went into the field on May 6, 2006. Its report will be
 submitted to the Bank andpublicly disclosed. The Bank reviews the TORSprior to these
audits, andthe reports are madepublic.

40.     The Bank and MIGA have conducted one formal supervision mission on
safeguards (June 2005), during which concerns about safety, CDPs, and compensation
were raised. The mission stressed to WAPCo the urgent need to remedy the gap on
awareness about emergency response and accelerate progress on community
development planning, both o f which W N C o i s on schedule to do. The mission also
requested and received data on compensation in Nigerian communities for analysis.
Three o f the communities listed in the Request were included among the fourteen for
which the Bank obtained data; the fact that compensation was raised at a meeting inOtta
andnot at the meetinginBadagry suggestedthat the problemwas more localized around
Otta. Staff have followed up on these issues in three meetings with WAPCo's health,
safety and environment officers. Since receiving the Request, the Bank has asked
WAPCo to provide the tabulation for the other nine communities in advance o f the
independent audit scheduled for September2006.

PROJECTECONOMICS NIGEW GASOILI~~WSTRY
                        AND                  /

41.     Management believes that the economic analysis did consider all feasible
alternatives and adequately evaluated the project's sustainability. It also believes that the
project's contribution to reduced gas flaring i s presented without overstatement in the
economic analysis as well as the PAD and-in order to see actual results-the           annual
volume o fAG (normally flared) is includedas one o fthe project's monitoring indicators.

42.     There were two layers o f economic analysis in the preparation for WAGP in
additionto that doneby U'APCO.Bank staffperformedits ownanalysis andalso engaged
a consulting firm for a morewide-ranging andin-depthanalysis. Project alternatives were
considered inthe consuitant's work as well as inthe EA. WAPCo examined alternatives
including generating power from gas in Nigeria and transmitting it to the other three
countries and exportingthe gas as liquefiednatural gas inbarges or tankers rather than by
pipeline. It also compared a limited number o f other energy sources to gas, but the focus


                                            12

                                                                WestAfiican GasPipelineProject



o f the analysis undertaken for the project's private sponsors was mostly on options that
WAPCo's investors could consider financing. The Bank instructed its consultant to
analyze a set o f alternatives corresponding to a broader objective-namely, providing
Ghana as well as Togo and Benin with more plentiful, more reliable electricity.
Economic costs and benefits of environmental impacts were taken into account to the
extent feasible. There was cross-communication between WAPCo's EA consultant and
the Bank's economic and financial consultant, so that the EA could take into account the
findings o fboth. The EA also included the "no-action or no-project" alternative. WAGP
was by far the most attractive investment inboth analyses in2004, and at today's much
higher prices for fuel oil (currently used in Ghana, Togo and Benin), the economic
benefits o f switching to gas are considerably greater (see paragraph 15 and Annex I:for
more details). The WAGP project will yield significant economic benefits to each o f the
four participating countries, and such benefits are significant in both Low and High
Demandscenarios. Overall, it can be concluded that the project has sigdkant economic
benefits  and the sharing o f these benefits amongst project participant is fair and
reasonable.

43.     While the stated objectives in the PAD do not include flaring reduction, the
project has been characterized by some as a "flaring reductionproject." Despite the fact
that it was not part of the development objectives, the project does, in fact, make a
modest contribution to flaringreduction; this can be noted when the aniounts o f gas that
WAGP would carry are looked at in the context of the large total volume flared in
Nigeria. The modest amount o f flaring reductionthat WAGP aims to achieve is treated as
an economic and environmental benefit to Nigeria, without overstatement in the
economic analysis.

POVERTY    AND RESETTLEMENT

44.     Managementbelieves that the projectwill benefit, not impoverishaffected people,
throughresettlement compensation, as well as community development, constructionand
planned permanent employment. Further, replacement valuation is the approach agreed
with WAPCo andManagement believes that this principle mustbe applied. Ifit has been
applied inconsistently, the Bankwill ensure this is corrected. Based on this, Management
believes that affected people will be able to improve, or at least restore their standards o f
living as a result o f the project. If any concerns o f inadequate compensation have not
been properly addressed, as reqaired by the project's legal agreements, the Bank will
ensure that those standards are met.

45.     The intent o f the Bank, inrejecting the initial draft of the RAP, makingextensive
comments on the second draft, and meeting with WAPCo's consultants to assist in
improving the RAP, was to assist WAPCo in its efforts to avoid negative impacts on
anyone's livelihood. WAPCo's consultants had surveyed the affected communities and
both the consultants and WAPCo had consulted directly with affected families. At the
consultations held by the Bank in October 2004, concerns were raised about the
possibility that government rates would be used in determining compensation amounts,
and WAPCo and the Bank assured the audience that this would not be the case. The
RAPSalso call for an independent audit o f resettlement, which is scheduled for


                                             13

ManagementResponse


September 2006. InJune 2005, the communities that gathered at Badagry didnot express
any dissatisfaction with compensation. Those that gathered at Otta did, but at the same
time, itheyexpressedtheir appreciation for theprocess, particularlythe fact that the funds
were paid directly to the intended recipients. The RAPSinclude grievance procedures,
which should be the first means of dealing with the Requesters' concern about the level
of compensation. The Bank had already requested and received information on amounts
paidto the group o f communities around Otta that met with the June 2005 mission. The
tabulation covers only three o f the Requesters, and the Bank has now asked WAPCo fir
the corresponding information for all o f the other communities, in advance o f the
scheduled September 2006 independent audit. A resettlement specialist is analyzing the
Otta areadata andwill submit findings andrecommendations byMay 31,2006.

46.     For the affected communities as a whole, WAGP brings direct benefits that will
contribute to improvements in living conditions. The CDP has been designed in
consultation with citizens and documented in April 2006 in an MOU between the
Consortium and WAPCo. WAPCo will, in its first year, support construction o f
boreholes, water systems, schools and health centers in 14 communities, at an estimated
total cost of US$950,000. Some o f the projects will be used by neighboring villages.
WAPCo's intention is to formulate a comprehensive, five-year CDP. Additional
communities will receive community development support in the second year and
subsequent years of the program. Seven of the 12 communities listed inthe Request are
direct beneficiaries o fthe first year program.

47.     Purchases o f goods and services and temporary employment during construction
are expected to benefit some community members and businesses, and a limitednuniber
o f permanent positions exist inpipeline operation and maintenance. During operation,
WAGP will needservices and supplies, some o f which shouldbe sourced from the local
communities. WAPCo has committed to 15 percent local content in its contracting and
hiring for the project as a whole, and the primary onshore construction contractor in
Nigeriahas exceeded 6 percent and expects the percentage to increase substantially. The
Bank has requested more details on the make-up of the local content in order to
determine what benefits the local communities are deriving from WAPCo's employment
and procurement policy. Nigerians make up approximately one-third o f the contingent
recruited into WAPCo's training program in the four cooperating countries to prepare
national citizens for permanentemployment.

48.     More broadly, the revenues that will accrue to Nigeria from the sale and transport
of hitherto flared gas and non-associated gas (NAG) should contribute to development
and poverty alleviation. The FGN is a participant in the Extractive Indastxies
Transparency Initiative (EITI). NNPC, Chevron, Shell, and Elf are all participants.
Nigerian Agip Oil Company Limited, a subsidiary of Eni S.p.A. (Agip), also is expected
to become a participant before WAGP begins gas deliveries. Furthermore, under its
contractual arrangements, N-Gas has covenanted to: (a) require its shareholders to be
participants in EITI; (b) purchase natural gas only from EITI participants; and (c)
publicly disclose payments by N-Gas to FGN (together with any state or local
governmentaljurisdictions inNigeriaor their state-owned or state-controlled enterprises).




                                             14

                                                                WestAfrican GasPipeliiaeProject



For its part, WAPCo has covenanted not to accept or contract with any future shipper
who is not a participant inEITIinNigeria.

ENVIRONMENT,      ELBS,AND THEDELTA

49.     Management believes that systems for environmental and social. management are
adequate to mitigate negative impacts and that the project will not cause irreparable
damage to land or livelihoods. Management believes that the EA covers both the
upstream gas source and pipeline safety issues. An ELPS Integrity Study was also
conducted (see below), showing that the existing pipeline needed no major repairs inthe
next ten years as a result o f its connection to WAGP. The systemwide Emergency
Response Plan for the new pipeline was issued on May 19, 2006. Detailed site-specific
response plans will be developed as final designs are confirmed for facilities such as the
compressor station at Badagry. WAPCo held public awareness meetings on emergency
response on February21, and 22,2006 for communities inNigeria. Ninety-eight citizens
attended, including officers of the Consortium and residents o f at least three o f the
communities listedinthe Request.

50.     The potential adverse impacts o f WAGP are few and relatively limited, and,
according to the first two independent monitoring reports, no significant impacts have
materialized. WAGP has not caused any degradation in the Requesters' immediate
environment to date. The Requesters' communities are 250 kilometers from the nearest
part of the Delta, where Nigeria's oil and gas resources are located. The Bank held
discussions with WAPCo and its main investors and assured itselfthat WAGP would not
result in any new development o f gas or oil in the Delta in the near future. The only
impact to be anticipated there between now and the time that throughput inthe pipeline
would exceed 250 MMscflday is the positive effect o f any reductions in flaring that
occur. Thereafter, there could be new construction o f gas-gathering infrastructure and
possibly construction of new gas wells. Under the agreements to purchase gas i? the
Niger Delta, the original upstream producers have covenanted, inter alia, to comply with
all applicable environmental and social laws inany new oil and gas developments. After
a specified threshold has been met (10 years or 200 MMscflday under contract,
whichever comes first), the pipeline will be opened to other fkture shippers under an
Access Code. To qualify for access, kture shippers must, inter alia, be in compliance
with environmental and social laws in Nigeria. The WAGP Authority is charged with
monitoring compliance with the Access Code. In the years prior to the time o f open
access, the WAGP Authority will needto develop capacity to carry out its environmental
oversight responsibilities for the pipeline, and the Bank is exploring ways inwhich it can
assist.

51.     The Bank spent considerable time in discussions on the ELPS inorder to decide
whether it was a part o f the project's area o f influence and thus should be included inthe
scope o f the EA. OP 4.01 Annex A paragraph 5 defines area o f influence as: "The area
likely to be aficted by the project, including all its ancillary aspects, such as power
transmission corridors, pipeliaes, canals, tunnels, relocation and access roads, borrow
and disposal areas, and construction camps, as well as unplanned developments induced
by the project (e.g., spontaneous settlement, logging, or shifting agriculture along access


                                              15

Management Response



roads). The area of influence may include, for example, (a) the wztershed within which
the project is located; (b) any affected estuary and coastal zone; (c) off-site areas required
for resettlement or compensatory tracts; (d) the airshed (e.g., where airborne pollution
such as smoke or dust may enter or leave the area o f influence; (e) migratory routes o f
humans, wildlife, or fish, particularly where they relate to public health, economic
activities, or environmental conservation; and (0areas used for livelihood activities
(hunting, fishing, grazing, gathering, agriculture, etc.) or religious or ceremonial purposes
o f a customary nature." ELPS has beeninoperation since the early 1990s.Itwould notbe
subject to any changes as a result o f the implementation o f WAGP. It has substantial
customers other thanWAGP and does not depend on WAGP for its continued operation,
The Banktherefore concluded that, based on (a), (b) and (c) o f the definition, ELPS was
not a part o fthe project's areao f influence.

52.      Moreover, an environmental audit is the appropriate instrument to apply to an
existing facility rather than EA, and WAPCo on its own had commissioned a two-phased
study o f ELPS, focusing on present condition, safety and security, which are the main
topics an acidit would consider. The study concluded that ELPS could carry the gas for
supply to WAGP in its present con&tion, but it also recommended a number o f safety
and security improvements that the pipeline operator should undertake. The consultants
reported that ELPS has from time to time experienced small leaks and incidents o f
vandalism, but no major gas releases      OF other serious problems that have harmed the
environment or inhabitants o f nearby settlements. As a result o f the two-phased study,
improvements insafety and security will be made at ELPS, and so WAGP's impact onits
condition has been positive rather than negative. WAPCo is continuing to pursue the
repairs that are required to be made byNGC to the ELPS at Escravos prior to first gas. In
addition, Management notes that the Requesters' communities are not close enough to
ELPS to be affected byits operation.

53.      The Bank also conducted additional due diligence by hiringconsultants as part o f
the broader economic assessmento fthe project. The consultants examined the design and
cost o f the pipeline and confirmed that: (a) the demand analysis conducted by the private
sponsors was thorough and robust; (b) the pipeline sizing had been optimized; (c) the
Pipeline Development Plan cost elements, which were the outcome o f an international
competitive tendering process, represented good value for money in the international
market; and (d) the compression requirements for expanding WAGP were reasonable in
phasing and cost.



                        V.      MANAGEMENTACTION PLAN

54.     Management believes that the project has been well prepared, and supervision
includes multiple layers o f oversight, which has already identified the issues raised inthe
Request.

55.     Despite the project achievements described above, a few important challenges
noted inthe Request have not been completely resolved: compensation rates, community



                                              16

                                                             WestAfrican GasPipeline Project


development mechanisms, and some environmental and safety issues are not yet widely
understood, contributing to some uncertainty and apprehension about future livelihood
andsafety. Theseissueswere also identifiedbythe Bankmissionof June 2005 but, as the
steps recomended at that time have not yet been fully implemented, the Task Team i s
implementing additional actions, as described below. In summary, reducing uncertainty
requires clear, direct and informed consultation by the project with those affected, on
asset valuation, community development and safety measures. The expert panel will
assess these risks and the effectiveness o f mitigation, and WAPCo will be required to
correct anynon-compliance with its contractual obligations to the World Bank Group.

56.    Risks still facing theproject include:

        a  Potential uncertainty regarding disclosure of infomation: Although the Task
           Team understood the areas affected by the pipeline to have a highproportion
           of fluent English speakers, duringthe June 2005 missionit became clear that
           the existing English documents were too long and technical for wide
           community understanding o f entitlements or risks, and this contributed to
           apprehension and undermined project credibility. Non-technical Yoruba
           translations o f the summaries of the EMP and RA9 documents have yet to be
           completed and disseminated, as agreed by WApCo during the June 2005
           mission. The findings of the technical study on the existing ELPS Integrity
           Study were not disseminatedor publicly reviewed; inaddition, WAPCo's own
           project safety plans are drafted but will be made public only in the next few
           weeks;

       0   Potentially inadequate compensation: The Bank and WAPCo are committed
           to compensation at full replacement costs. The Bank has begun reviewing
           compensation rates for the northernpart ofthe Nigerian ROW (the June 2005
           mission undertook to review those rates but this has not yet been completed)
           but the Bank has not yet received compensation data fiom the southern
           portion o f the Nigerian ROW. The Otta section report on individual
           compensation payments to affected persons does not match the valuation
           methodology described in the RAP (the spreadsheet sent by WApCo only
           shows inflation adjustments o f 75 percent for land and 50 percent for other
           assets, but not after fist increasing Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) rates
           by ten times as explained in the RAP). Since no payment receipts were
           included, the spreadsheet alone only shows the amounts people were eligible
           for, not a record o f what they were paid. The Bank is seeking further
           information fiom WAPCo on its valuation methods and a full review o f the
           adequacy o f compensation i s requiredin advance o f the scheduled September
           2006 independent audit;

           Potential lack of credibility: Although numerous specialized field visits have
           occurred, no Banksupervision has taken place inNigeria since June 2005 and
           the required expert panel has not yet visited the field. The evidence that the




                                             17

Management Response



             grievance process i s working and fair comes from independent monitoringby
             WAPCo consultants.6The Nigerianpetroleum industryhas a poor reputation,
             both among people in Nigeria as well as internationally, and this lack of
             credibility could deter investment and slow restoration of incomes. While this
             project may not be directly linked to manyproblems cited inthe Request, the
             Barkrecognizes the scope ofthe issues inthe Niger Delta andwill ensure an
             adequatepresenceduringproject implementation.

MANAGEMENT         ACTIONS

57.      To addresstheserisks, the following actions are now underway.

         Q   Transparency and accountability. The June 2005 Bankmissionrecognized the
             translation issue andWAPCo committed to remedy it. The Bankwill conduct
             two supervision missions a year until the project is complete. The next
             mission is scheduled for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, and will include
             financial and economic staff specialists, social and environmental staff
             specialists to start planning for the resettlement audit, and to assess staff
             capacity and institutional arrangements o f agencies required to delliver
             planned emergency response, community development and resettlement
             grievance redressservices.

             Before September 30, 2006, WAPCo will disseminate non-technical
             translations of RAP and EMP summaries, including clear explanation o f
             grievance redress and monitoring mechanisms; advertise the availability o f
             these documents on all work sites by posters-including          where and how any
             complaints or grievances can be registered; and maintain grievance logs for
             inspection bylocal communities.


         Q   Expert panel. Appointment o f the expert panel that was required under the
             project was unreasonably delayed because of issues related to approvals for
             contracting consultants. These procedural problems are beingresolved andthe
             panel i s expected to be appointed and make its first field visit before the end
             o f September 2006. The TORSfor the expert panel mandate it to review and
             provide recommendations to address social and environmental issues
             encountered during project implementation such as those raised by the
             Request.

             Community development programs. WAPCo has contracted with a Nigerian
             NGO,Enterprise for Development International, to facilitate implementation
             o f the CDP projects that will be supported in accordance with the MOUthat


6The RAPdescribesthree typesofmonitoring:quarterlyinternalperfonmincemonitoringby the WMCo
landacquisitionteam andcommunityrelationsrepresentatives;annualimpactmonitoringbythe land
acquisitionteamto be reviewedbythe expert panel; and, a final RAP completionaudit contractedto
externalevaluationauditors, under the expertpanel.




                                                  18

                                                      WestAfrican Gus PipeIine Project



  was negotiated between the Consortium and WAPCo. The Bank will review
  progress inthe program throughthe required annual reports from WAPCo and
  will make site visits on its next supervisionmission. The expert panel will also
  be asked to evaluate the program's effectiveness.

0 Poverty and resettlement. Before the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, the Bank
  will assess whether compensation rates were insufficient to replace acquired
  assets or the grievance redress process was ineffective for any affected people.
  Information available now i s inconclusive but if either assessed rates paid are
  below replacement cost or the grievance process is functioning poorly,
  WMCo and the Bank will correct the problems. The next supervision
  mission, scheduled for the first quarter o f FY07, will assess the facts on the
  groundand, ifneeded, agree on anynecessary retrofit measures with WAPCo.
  The missionwill discuss findings withthe affected communities.

  Before September 30, 2006, WAFCo will conduct professional surveys to
  assess, across the length of the pipeline, the current values of each type o f
  asset lost to the project, including communal lands, trces, crops, other
  structures, and public assets. These surveys will be based on actual field
  measurement andratings, not on State, local, or OPTS rates. The definition of
  replacement value in QP 4.12 will be the guideline used. Before the first
  quarter of fiscal year 2007, the Bankwill review the specific cases cited inthe
  Request to ensure replacement value compensationwas paid.

0 Environment. System wide emergency response planswere completed inM a y
  2006 andwill be disclosed inJune; detailed site plans willbe developed when
  equipment designs are finalized. Technical safety issues require careful
  communications, as well as an ability to listen to community concerns.
  WAPCo held meetings or groups of communities at Badagry and 0th in
  February 2006 and will hold open meetings with all communities affected by
  the project to discuss drafi site-specific safety plans, document and advertise
  the results of public consultations (including any amendnents resulting from
  community suggestions), and set clear results for communityunderstanding of
 risk mitigation and emergency plans. This will help to ensure misinformation
  does not reduce the effectiveness of necessary risk management, and allow
  communities to monitor the promises made in the safety plans. The expert
 panel will review the plansduring its initialmission.

 InSeptember 2006, the expert panelwill assess effectiveness ofthe grievance
 redress process andensure oversight andmonitoringprocess are credible.

 The resettlement audit planned for September 2006 will review the adequacy
 o f compensation to replace lost assets and progress in income restoration to
 date, and will document the effectiveness of systems to detect and correct
 misuse of funds. The Bank's resettlement specialists will approve the TORS
 for the audit. The benchark definition ofadequacy will be from OP 4.12 and




                                    19

Management Response


           the field surveys. Further, adequacy will be defined interms o f the payments
            actually madeto affected people.

58.     Management believes that the WAGP project is a considerable achievement for
the four client countries. WAGP will be the first project in the West Afkican region to
develop regional exports o fnatural gas. Ithas provided a muchneeded signaling effect to
the region to attract private capital and has potential to promote regional economic
integration. The project has been deemed as an economically viable project with
significant and fairly-shared economic benefits, especially inthe current situation o f high
crude oil prices. Management believes that project preparation was cautious and highly
satisfactory. On balance, to date, the implementation o f the environmental and social
safeguards has been positive, as observed in two reports from independent monitoring
consultants. As noted earlier, a few important challenges have not been completely
resolved. Such issueswill besupervisedby staffunder arigorous supervisionplanfor the
project, which will be adequately funded. Further, the expert panel will assess these risks
and the effectiveness of mitigation, and if any instances o f non-adherence to Bank's
safeguard policies are found by either the Bank or the expert panel, W M C o will be
required to addressthemina timely fashion.



                         VI.   MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE

59.     The Requesters' claims, accompanied by Management's detailed responses, are
providedinAnnex 1.

60.     Management believes that the Bank has made significant efforts to apply its
policies and procedures and to pursue concretely its mission statement inthe context o f
the project. In Management's view, the Bank has endeavored to ensure that WAPCo
follows the guidelines, policies and procedures applicable to the matters raised by the
Request but acknowledges that further work will need to be done on safeguards
supervision, as explained above. Management will work with WAJ?Co, the Government,
andaffected communities to ensurethat the Requesters' rights or interests arenot directly
or adversely affectedbythe project.




                                            20

                                                                           WestAfLican GasPipeline Project



                                                  Annex 1.
                                           CLAIMSAND RESPONSES

vo                  C l ~ l ~ S ~              051
                                             OPIBP                               Response
                                                       B

                                             _I_
     EnvironmentalImpactAssessment

1.   We believethattheWestAfrican Gas                Managementbelievesthat systemsfor environmentaland sociai
   Pipeline Project,if executedas presently        managementare adequateto mitigatenegativeimpactsand that
   conceived,would do irreparabiedamageto          the projectwill not cause irreparabledamageto landor livelihoods.
   the landand consequently,destroythe
   livelihoodsof the 12communities.                  The West Africa Gas Pipelineisa privatesector projectthat is
                                                   designedto substitute abundantand inexpensivenaturalgasfrom
                                                   Nigeriafor expensive alternatefuels usedby the power, industrial,
                                                   mining,andcommercialsectors of Benin, Ghana, andTogo. The
                                                   IDApartialrisk guarantee andthe MlGAguarantee are providing
                                                   risk mitigationsupportfor Ghana's obligationto the project. Project
                                                   preparationincludednotonly considerationof the socioeconomic
                                                   impactof the project, butenvironmentalimpact, and examined
                                                   ways to minimizenegativeimpacts,while promotingsound
                                                   economicdevelopmentinthe pipelineareas. The EAand RAP
                                                   were preparedby independentconsultants retainedbythe
                                                   company,WAPCo, with BanWMIGAoversight.
                                                     Projectpreparationincludednotonly considerationof the
                                                   socioeconomicimpactof the project,butenvironmentalimpact, and
                                                   examinedways to minimizenegative impacts,while promoting
                                                   soundeconomicdevelopment inthe pipelineareas.
                                                     The EA, preparedinJune2004, thoroughty discussed potential
                                                   and likely impactsuponthe landonwhich the pipelineis being built.
                                                   Forthe land-based componentin Nigeria,these includedimpacts
                                                   on land use, habitatand biologicalresources,topography and soils,
                                                   water resources, and air quality. The EA consideredthat the
                                                   impactsin Nigeriawould be minor and limitedto the immediate
                                                   vicinity of the project.The impactof mostsignificantconcern, and
                                                   thereforethesubject of extensive baselinestudies, consultations,
                                                   and communitymeetings,was theconversionof current land use
                                                   within the pipeline's RGW andfacility footprints. The EA concluded
                                                   thatthese impactsaswell as moremodestor localizedimpactson
                                                   the land,water, air, andtransportationinfrastructurewould be
                                                   mitigatedwith the plannedmeasuresand commitmentsinthe
                                                   projectso thatthe residualimpactwould be low,with the exception
                                                   of the conversion of landuse,which would be moderate.
                                                     InDecember2005,the IndependentMonitoringReport, prepared
                                                   forWAPCo,examined the project's impactonthe environment, and
                                                   the various measuresto mitigatethisimpact.At thetime the Report
                                                   was written, constructionactivitieswith respectto the various parts
                                                   of the pipelineinNigeria (AlagbadoTee, Mainline, Lagos Beach
                                                   CompressorStation, HorizontalDirectionalDrilling (HDD) and
                                                   BadagryCreeWBarrier IslandCrossing, andthe Offshore Pipeline)
                                                   hadnotyet commenced,andthus the reportfocusedon systems
                                                   for implementationand monitoring, as well as potentialissues
                                                   arisingfrom pipeline construction, includingworker housing,
                                                   wastewaterdisposal, roadwaywidening, and saltwaterintrusion.
                                                   The Reportalso lookedatsocial issuesfor project-affected
                                                   persons,includinglandacquisition, resettiement,compensation,
                                                   encroachment,traffic, migration, health,cuitural resources,and
                                                   impactson livelihoodsand subsistence.
                                                     The Reportconcludedthat: 'WAPCo hasestablishedan effective
                                                   environmentalandsociai managementsystemand has
                                                   appropriatelyimplementeditsenvironmentalsafeguard



                                                     21

     Management Response



                                                                             Response

                                               commitments.Noviolations of environmentalsafeguard
                                               commitmentsthat haveresultedinan adverseimpactonsensitive
                                               resourcesor localcommunitieswere identifiedduring thethird-party
                                               review,though some improvementsto specific safeguard programs
                                               is recommendedto reducethe potentialfor future issues"
                                               (Independent Monitoring Report, Newfields,December2005).
                                               Suggestedimprovementsinclude: ensuringcontractorcompliance
                                               with all commitments;addressing environmentalimpactissues
                                               arisingfrom changesinthe project; and enforcingrequirementsfor
                                               contractor Health,'Safety,and EnvironmentalManagementPlans
                                               (HSEMP)that addressall environmentaland social safeguard
                                               commitments.The ReportconsideredthatWAPCo has"effectively
                                               implementedits socioeconomicsafeguardpolicies in Nigeria" and
                                               recommendedsomeadditionalimprovements (e.g. data collection,
                                               guidelinesfor landacquisitionand compensation, employment
                                               opportunitiesfor localcommunities, e&.). Additional informationon
                                               the environmental impactof the WAGP and the pipelineto which it
                                               will be connected (Escravos-LagosPipeline)is includedin Item2.
                                               Item9 provides moreinformationon the socioeconomic benefitsof
                                               the project,and, in Item 11,there is additional informationonthe
                                               project's contributionto reducedgas flaring.
                                                 As for the other countries, constructionhadnotcommencedin
                                               Beninwhen the IndependentMonitoringReportwas written.The
                                               independentmonitoringteam examinedthe concretecoatingfacility
                                               and portfacilities nearTema, Ghanaandthe HDD site and offshore
                                               pipelaying barge, DLB Brazos Horizon,inTogo. Whiletherewere
                                               someviolations (and potentialviolations) of the HSEMP
                                               requirements,the monitoringteam notedthat the siteswere
                                               generally compliant with the requirements and they provided
                                               recommendationsonways to resolveoutstandingor potential
                                               problems (e.g., morefrequent monitoringand review, more
                                               documentation,preventivemeasurestc dealwith contamination,
                                               more detailedplanningfor site management).

  Itissadto notethattheoverwhelming       4.01   Managementconsidersthat extensiveconsultationswere held
majorityof our peoplewere not consulted   4.12 2nd concernswell documentedand presentedin a balanced
duringthe preparationof the Environmental      manner.
ImpactAssessmentreportonthe project,             Fromearly discussionsin2002 through May24,2004, therewere
nor after announcementsinthe national          twenty-fiveformal meetingsheldwith individualcommunitieson
daily newspapersthat draftcopiesof the         environmental impacts, amongthemthree at Badagry,threeat
EnvironmentalImpactAssessmentof the
projectwere ondisplay at different             Igbesa,three at O b ,andtwo at Ajido, all with communitiesalong
                                               the ROW,whsre various of the Requesterswould have been
locations.                                     represented.One large meetingwas heldto which all communities
  Inour presentationto theteam of              alongthe pipeline ROWwere invited, and there was another
consultantsfromtheWorld Bankthat               meetingwith theAdo-Odo localgovernment. Communitymeetings
visited our communityon October30,2004,        were annGUnCedand opento landownersand non-landowners
we statedthat "we shall appreciatea prcof      alike. Questionson landacquisitionandcompensation,
(sic) as regardsvenue, timeand listof          environmental,social and other issueswere discussed.The
communitypeoplethat attendedthe public         meetingsare summarizedin Chapter5 andAppendix5-D of the
hearingon the EIA besidesthe landowners        EA.
with whomthe companyholds.periodic               The FederalMinistryof Environmentconducteda public hearing
meetingsonthesubject of compensations."        on the EAon April 6,2004, the results of which are also
 Although the majorityof our community         documentedinEAAppendix5-D.
peopleare not landowners,the pipeline            Bank staff visited Nigeriafor consultationduring February,March




                                                 22

                                                                            WestAfrican Gas Pipeline Project




would passvery close to our homes,                  andApril, 2004, and MlGAattendedthe public hearingand made
through routesour childrentaketo their              sitevisits. Bank staff' conductedconsultationsatthreelocations in
schools, routesour womentaketo their                Nigeria (Lagos, Badagryand Otta) inOctober2004 in connection
farms andto our fishing grounds. This               with projectappraisal.The ET0for that missionclearly showsthat
makes ussignificantstakeholders.And we              issuessuchas safety and communitydevelopmentwere discussed
feel aggrievedthat we were not consulted            at Badagry,while at 0ththe questions almost exclusively
untilthe visit of the team of consultants           concernedcompensation. Bankand MlGA staffvisited Badagryand
from theWorld Bank, [] on October30,                Otta duringthe supervisionmissionof June 2005 and consuited
2004 in Badagry.Duringthis visit, itwas             againwith localcommunitiesand communityleaders. On both
evident thattherewas a lack of adequate             occasions, community leadersand virtually allother speakers
consultationwith the peopleas no onefrom            statedclearlythat, despitewhatever concernsthey wished to bring
our communitiesinthe Badagryaxis of                 to the mission's attention,they supportedtheWAGP projectand
Lagosstatewas ableto identrfywhat was in            were lookingforward to its implementation. Ontheconsultation
the ResettlementAction Plan.We havehad              sectionof PADAnnex 13,allof these issueswere discussedIn
theopportunity of readingthe Project                detail. It is Management'sview that supportfor the projectwas not
Appraisal DocumentReportNo. 30334-                  misrepresented. SeeAnnex 2 of this responsefor a complete listof
AFR on November2,2004 of the team of                consultations.
consultantsreferredto above.We are very
worried that this importantaspectof the
meetingwas not highlightedintheir report.
Moreover,our support for "a projectthat
would utilize presentlyflared and harmful
associatedgas"was misconstruedas
giving blanketsupportfor this project.

  Thefailureof the projectproponentsto                Managementbelievesthatthe EA covers boththe upstreamgas
carry out an EnvironmentalImpact                    sourceand pipelinesafety issuesandthat an EA of ELPSwas
Assessment of the existing Escravos-Lagos           neithernecessary nor appropriate. An ELPSIntegrityStudy was
Pipeline,to which theWest AfricanGas                conducted (see below), showingthat the existing pipelineneeded
Pipelinewill be linked, isa major sourceof          no major repairs inthe nextten years as a resultof itsconnectionto
concernfor us. Insome cases, the routeof            WAGP. The system-wide EmergencyResponsePlanfor the new
the pipelineisonly a few feet awayfrom our          pipelinehas been issuedandthe communityawareness program
homesand passescloseto our schools,                 on emergencyresponsebeganin February2006.
farms andfishing grounds.We are very
worriedthat the Escravos-Lagospipeline,               WAGP is not expectedto generate any additional burdenor
                                                    impacton the ELPSsince nocapacity upgradeor major
which isshut downseveraltimes a year                interventionis requiredto meet bothWAGP andgrowing Nigerian
becauseof poormaintenanceand                        marketdemands.
accidents,willsourcetheWAGP pipeline.                 ELPSwas collstructedbetween1988and 1992by
  Itisgenerally knownhere inNigeriathat             SaipamEnamprogettito internationalstandards. Itoriginates inthe
the Escravos-Lagospipelineisnotsafe. We             western Niger Delta,The pipelineisowned by NNPC, and operated
will notfeel safe either untiia proper EIA          by itssubsidiary NGC.WAGPwill connectto ELPSat theAIagbado
has beencarriedout on the Escravos-
Lagossection of WAGP so that its potential          Tee" near ltokiinOgunState. It is capableof delivering900
                                                    MMscf/dayof gas without compression.The demandat the moment
impactsonthe safety of WAGP are made
clear andavailablefor alltosee. Suchan              is of theorder of 365 MMscflday,or about40 % capacity. The
                                                    pipelinesystemwill not needto be upgradedor modifiedto meet
EIA isessentialto determinethe West                 theWAGP gas demandof upto 200 MMscfidayforecastwithin the
African Gas Pipeline Project's                      next510 years; infact, evenwithWAGP operatingat that volume,
environmentalimpacts.                               capacityutilizationonthe main ELPStrunklinewould increaseto
  We are convincedthat the unsafestate of           about 63%, which still providesa significant marginfor growth in
the Escravos-LagosPipelineimpliesa                  domestic demand beforethe additionof compressionfacilitiesis
seriousdangerfor thesafety of theWest               needed.
AfricanGas Pipelineand all who live inits             No EAwas preparedfor ELPSbecauseitwas constructedbefore
proximity.We do notAsh to become                    Nigeria's EIA law came intoforce in 1992. Itwas determined notto
victimsof gasexplosions and leaks likeour           be a partof the project's areaof influenceas definedinOP4.01
brothers inoneof the states inthe Niger

     'Not  a"teamof consultants"as stated inthe Request.




                                                      23

    Management Response



                  Ciaidissue                                                            Response

Deltawhere on September 12,2003, a gas                  AnnexA, para. 5 because,inter alia, ELPSis notownedby
pipelineowned by Shell (oneof the                       WAPCO, has beeninoperationfor sometime, is not dependent on
sponsorsof theWAGP project)that                         WAGP, andwould not be significantly modifiedby or for the project.
supplies gasto the aluminumsmelterplant,                 Itwastherefore notincludedinthe scopeofthe EAforWAGP.
exploded. This ledto thedeathof                          Moreover, an environmentalaudit isthe appropriateinstrumentto
communitypeopleandto their relocation                    applyto an existing facility ratherthan EA.
awayfrom their communities.Importantly,
we knowthat emergencyresponse                              Infact, WAPCocarried out an audit, intheform of the ELPS
mechanisminthis country istotally non-                   IntegrityStudy undertakenby an independentengineeringfirm, to

existent. There were two majorair mishaps                determinethe pipeline's integrityfor future useas a supply pipeline

latelastyear in Nigeria,oneof them                       to the WAGP. Phase Iof that study was completed in2001, and

happenedat Lisavillagea few kilometers                   examinedthesystemdesign, operationalhistory, andfuture

awayform our communities,and ittook the                  expectedusagefor bothNigeriandomestic andWAGP markets

search and rescueteamof the National                     overa forecast 20-year period.The Phase 1reportdid make some

Emergencyoutfittwo whole daysto locate                   recommendationsfor repairof certainfacilities and identified

the siteof the crash. We have beentold                   operating practicesto be changedby NGC.Since2001, NGC has
                                                         largely completed the recommendedrepairs,which includedrepair
thatthereis an emergency responseand
contingency planto minimizeimpactsof                     of leakyvalves, reinstatementof an active ROW maintenance

disasters, butwe aretotally unawareof its                program, refurbishment of cathodic protectionsystemsfor external

content or adequacy becauseof the little                 corrosion protection, as well as modificationsnecessaryfor

informationwe have.                                      intelligentpigging2of the pipeline.
                                                         Phase 1also analyzedthe system capacityfor bothWAGP and
                                                         increasing Nigerianmarketdemandrelativeto theexisting pipeline
                                                         systam. The systemwas found to haveadequate pipelinecapacity
                                                         without the needfor any compressionuntilafter2020, some 15
                                                         years after startupof theWAGP. The firm also reportedthat "there
                                                         havebeen no reportsof majorfoss of gas incidentsinthe ELP
                                                         system", althoughthere havebeenpinholeleakscausedby
                                                         vandalism, severalminorvalve leaks, and one reportedgas leak
                                                         due to hardwarefailure. The most likelyform of failure, accordingto
                                                         the consultant, is through corrosion. Corrosion results in easy-to-
                                                         repair leaks, andgood maintenanceshould keepthefrequency of
                                                         suchfailures belowone everythreeyears.
                                                           Phase2of the IntegrityStudy was intelligent piggingto inspect
                                                         insidethe lengthof the majorityof ELPSsegments importantfor
                                                         gas deliveryto WAGP. Fromthis, the consultantconcludedthat the
                                                         ELPS pipelineisoverall in goodconditionfor continuedfuture
                                                         deliveries, and that no major line section repairswill be needed in
                                                         the next 10years if it ismaintained,operatedand inspectedinline
                                                         with IntegrityStudy recommendations.The studythuscontradicts


     'A  "pig" (pipe inspectiongauge) is a devicethat is inserted into and runthrough a pipelineto perform a
     specificfunction. Pigscan beseparated intotwo classes; non intelligent pigsand intelligentpigs. Non
     intelligentpigs performa basicoperationalfunctionsuchas swabbing,batching,and cleaning. Intelligent
     pigscollect data asto the integrity or performanceof the pipelinesuch as diameter measurementlgeometry,
     corrosiondetection, crackdetection and leakdetection.
      The issueof an EIAfor Escravos-LagosPipelineSystem (ELPS)was raisedby NGOsthat metwith Bank
     staff inWashingtonduringpreparationand in a lawsuitfiled againstWAPCoandthe NigerianGovernmentin
     February2004by a groupof communitiesfrom the Niger Delta (remotefromthe Requesters' locationsand
    WAGP), andfrom Badagry. Ina letter datedFebruary2,2006, andcopiedto WApCo, a memberof the

     attorneys: "...that aftera very wide consultationwith membersof the communitiesandthe royalfathers
     plaintiff groupwho isalso oneof thefour namedrepresentativesof the Requestersinformedthegroup's

     alongthe WestAfrican GasPipelineProject'srightof way, andrecentdevelopmentswhereinthe
     communitiesaffectedbytheprojecthavebeenproperfysensitizedaboutthe non-adversehealtheffectof
     the gasprojectandothersundryissues, I hwedeckledto discontinuethe suit institutedagainstthe
    executors of the Project."




                                                           24

                                                                       WestAfiican GasPipeline Project



                   Clainnns!4ue                                              Response

                                               the Requesters'contentionthat ELPS is unsafe.
                                                 Safetyof the ELPSin particularwas notan issueraisedby anyof
                                               the communitiesthat metwiththe Bank, probablybecauseitis
                                               sufficientlydistantfrom any of the communitieslistedinthe Request
                                               to pose no hazardto their safety? However,the BankandWAPCo
                                               heardclearlytheir concern about safety of WAGP andthe needfor
                                               themto befamiliarwith the emergency responseplans atthe
                                               October2004 consultationat Badagry inJune 2005. The Bank
                                               advisedWAPCoto respond, andWAPCo committedto having
                                               emergency response plans inplaceanddiscussedwith
                                               communitiespriorto anytransmissionof gas throughthe pipeline.
                                               The system-wide EmergencyResponseplanwas issuedon May
                                               19, 2006andwill befollowed by detailed plansfor specificsites
                                               whenfinaldesign is confirmed.WAPCo anticipatesthat the detailed
                                               planswill beready inthe 3rdquarter of 2006 andwill conduct
                                               workshopson them at the community levelwhen they are finished.
                                               In February,WAPCo heldtwo community meetingson emergency
                                               responseand safety for the communitiesalongthe ROW inNigeria.
                                               Membersof the Consortiumof WAGP ProjectHostCommunities
                                               Forum(an umbrellagroupthat apparently includesthe Requesters)
                                               attendedbothmeetingsWAPCo's response planhas been
                                               preparedtaking intoaccountthe existing emergency response
                                               capacityin Nigeria.
                                                 TheWAGP pipelineitselfwill undergoextensive inspectionand
                                               hydraulicpressuretestduring, and as part of, the standardfinal
                                               commissioningprocedures bythe contractor,beforehandingit over
                                               to theoperator.

     involuntary ResetUement

4.   The projectas presentlybeing                Managementbelievesthat affectedpeoplewill beableto
   implementedviolatedthe Bank's OP/BP         improve,or at least restoretheir standardsof living as a resultof
   4.12 of January 2002, which in essence      the project. Ifany concerns of inadequatecompensationhavenot
   requiresthatpeople who are losingtheir      beenproperlyaddressed,as requiredbythe project's legal
   landsorlivelihoodas a result ofa Bank       agreements, the Bankwill ensurethat those standards are met.
   financedprojecfshouldDenefiffromthe
   projectandshouldhavetheirstandardof           RAPSfor the projectcontain measuresto improveor restore

   livingimprovedor atleastresfored.This       livelihoodsand standards of living, minimize landacquisition,

   policystated herewas notcompliedwith in     guarantee that all affectedhouseholdshave an option to choose

   our communities.                            betweenland-for-landor cash compensation basedon negotiated
                                               replacementcosts, ensure that no constructionstarts priorto full
     We havecomplainedvarioustimesto           paymentof compensation, ensurethat impactson water
   differentstakeholdersinthe project,the      resources and transport infrastructureare minimalandtemporary,
   government, the projectowners (West         with no adverse income and livelihoodimpacts, and most
   African Gas PipelineCompany),etc. on our    importantly, to providefull replacementvalue for assets lost.
   fears andconcernson inadequate              Annex 3 lists Bankactions during preparationto confirm these
   compensation.We are convinceditwill not     requirementswere met.
   restoreor improveour standardof living.       The RAPSalso contain grievanceredress and monitoring
                                               mechanismsto correctany deficiencies.Measures include: (i) a
                                               complaint register and grievanceredresddisputeresolution
                                               process ;(ii) internalmonitoringbyWAPCo teams to ensure that
                                               the valuationand paymentsare madecorrectly; that the grievance
                                               process isfunctioningand any problems are being resolved
                                               (however, as this internalmonitoringbyWAPCo has not occurred
                                               as planned inthe R4P, the task team is reviewingthe adequacy
                                               of compensationto replaceiost assetsand progress in income
                                               restorationto date; (iii) annualimpactmonitoring to assessthe
                                               effectiveness of compensation in improving or at leastrestoring
                                               incomes; (thefirst of these impactmonitoringreportsis scheduled



                                                 25

     Management Response



                 Claidlssue                                                             Rwponhle

                                                         for September2006, coinciding with the first field visit of the
                                                         expert panel) (iv) externalmonitoring by an expertpanelto verify
                                                         that resultscomplywith resettlement standards, (scheduled for
                                                         September2006); and (v) after completion of all plannedactins
                                                         underthe RAP, an independentcompletion audit to ensurethe
                                                         resettlement objectiveshave beenachieved and mitigation
                                                         measureshave hadtheir intendedeffectsio improveor at least
                                                         restorelivelihoods.
                                                           Inaddition, regularBank safeguardssupervision missions
                                                         oversee compliance. However, if the assessmentsshouldreveal
                                                         that theseobjectiveshave not beenrealized, the sponsor will
                                                         proposefollow-upmeasuresthat couldrequire continuedWorld
                                                         Bank supervision.

  Membersof our communitieswere                            Replacementvalue compensationisthe approach agreedwith
assuredthat "adequatecompensation                        WAPCo andthe Managementbelievesthatthis principle must be
would be paidon the basis of rates                       applied. if it has beenappliedinconsistemtty,the Bankwill ensure
establishedby the Nigeriangovernment                     this iscorrected.
andthat these rateswould befurther
increasedto reflectinflation adjustmentand                 In Nigeria, the constructionof the gas pipeline, compressor

restorationof lost incomes." Withthe                     station, and constructioncamps requiredacquisitionof about 144

benefitof hindsight,we now believethat                   hectares(ha) of land. Dueto the linear natureof the project,this

thesestatements providedprecious little                  relativelysmall amountof landisspreadamong23 communitiesof

informationon the exactamount of                         two westernstates of Nigeria.A totalof 1,557 privatelandowners

compensationthatwe were to receivefor                    and 928tenantsare losinga smail portionof thetotalholdingsthey
each plotof landacquiredfor the project.                 own and/or cultivate.They allhave beencontacted bothby the
                                                         EstateSurveyorscontractedbyWAGP and responsiblefor the land
 The projectsponsors keptus intho dark                   and asset inventoryaswell as by independentsurveyorsthat the
aboutthis and other informationrelatingto                affected peoplethemselves hiredto representthem. The estimated
adequatecompensationthat should                          numberof peopleinthe affectedfamiliesof owners andtenants is
improveour standardof living.Therewere                   8,647. About 143residentialpiotsare affected; on 37 of these there
assurancesfrom projectsponsorsthatthe                    arefully constructedhomes.
ratesfor leaseof land inour communities
set bythe Nigeriangovernmentwould not                      WAPCo's valuation methodsare describedinthe WP, which was

be usedincomputingthe quantumof                          disclosedin-countryon June 9,2004. Forall assets, including land,

compensationto be paid. Butto our                        WAPCo usedestatevaluers and anyasset improvementsmade

surprise,whenthecompensationswere                        were expectedto be incorporatedincompensationpayments.
eventually paid,the rateswere inmost                     WAPCo, likeother operatorsintheoil andgas sector, beganwith

caseslessthan4% of the market rate.                      rates basedon the 1998QilProducersTradeSection(OPTS)
                                                         compensationschedule rates,althoughthese are largelygrounded
  Ina petitionto the "Chief Executive                    in conditionsinthe Niger Deltawhere productiontakes place.
Wtcet' of theWest African Gas Pipeline                   Therefore, due to publicconcerns inthe project areaabout the
Companyby representativesof [one of ]the                 inadequacyof these OPTS rates, in May2004WAPCo's vatuation
familiesof imeketown Olorunda Local                      team (FolaAlongeand Partners)negotiatedwith three community
GovernmentArea, dated March 14,2004,                     appointedestatesurveyors{Adefiiaand Company, George Nzei
thefamilies respectivelystated'%at upon                  and Company. and Shola Enitanand Company) and agreedto
commissioningour surveyorto measureout                   increasethe ratesby 75%for land, and50%for crops and
the portionof ourfamiiy landthatfalls within             buildings. InJanuary 2005, due to delays inpayment,anadditional
the gas pipeline route, itwas discavered                 increaseof 5% was agreed. Inthe RAPhowever,the OPTS rates
that 2 acresof ourfamily landfalls within                were reportedto befirst increasedby tentimes and then, for
the route...atthe momenta plotof land                    inflation, an additional increase(+75%for land, and +50%for other
measuring100ft by 50ft in lmeke                          assets)was reportedto beadded. The Bankis now reviewingthe
communitycan besold (leased}for at least                 actual paymentsto ensurethat, regardlessof OPTSratesor any
N250,OOO (twohundred     fmihousandnaira                 mark-upsagreed, the principleof replacementvaluefor lostassets
only)this is about USD2,000." The                        was met.



      The value of the naiiato the dollarat the official marketat the time of the survey commissionedbythe
     family was 132-135 nairato the dollar.




                                                          26

                                                                           WestAffican GasPipeline Project



                                                                                 Response

petitionerscontinuedTwo Acres of landat             Duringpreparationthe BankinsistedthatWAPCo demonstrate
that ratewill attract N3,000,000 (three           that itwas assessing actual marketvalues inthe projectarea. Inthe
million nairaonly) or $23,1@I....Our family       RAP, WAPCo reportedthat ithadassessedactualincomestream
should be adequatelycompensatedfor the            values on a sample basisto ensurethat adjustmentsto the OPTS
lost (sic)which will definitelybe                 ratescorrespondto or exceedreplacementvalues. To reassessthe
occasioned."The petitionersfurther                adequacyof compensationto replace last assets, before
stated.. ."we duly acknowledgethe receipt         September30,2006 WAPCowill conducta professionalsurveyof
of N400,OOO (four hundredthousand naira           the currentvalues of eachtypeof assetlostto the project, including
only) or $3,600 already paidAas                   communallands, trees, crops, other structures, and publicassets.
compensationto thefamily. Itis important          These surveyswill be basedon actualfieldmeasurementand
to state herethat one of the signatoriesis         ratings, not on State, localor OPTSrates. The definitionof
the highest rankedelectedofficialinthe             replacementvalue inOP4.12will bethe guideline used.
localgovernmentarea.                                 The specific casecited inthe Requestis beinginvestigated.Any
                                                  affectedpersonreceivinglessthanreplacementvalue would have
                                                   groundsto appeal and makeuseof the grievanceprocess.The
                                                   Bankwill also review outstanding grievance casesduring
                                                   supewision missionsto ensureWAPCofulfillsits commitmentthat
                                                   compensationamountsmeetor exceedasset replacementvalue.
                                                     Annex 2 liststhe consultationsheldbyWAPCo, which informed
                                                   communitiesabout thevaluation principlesand processfor
                                                   compensation.

  Therewas no binding contractual relation  4.12     Managementbelievesthat, if registeredas describedinthe RAP,
betweenindividuallandownersand                    the receiptsfor propertyacquisitionmeet Bank requirements.This
WAPCo. The sponsorsof the project                 will also be confirmedduringsupervision.
merely paidat their own discretion.They              Compensationwas for both landandcrops.All agreements
providedcompensationfor the cropsonthe             reachedwith landownershavebeendocumentedin"Compensation
landonly and didnot pay anythingfor the            and IndemnityReceiptsfor Direct Paymenrforms, with photosand
landandfuture profitsthat are accruable            signaturesof affectedpeopleandwitnesses.
from the activities that we would have
undertakenonour lands.                               Compensationratesfor perennialcrops and economictrees
                                                   shouldtake account of allfuture production(seethe OP, AnnexA,
  Our requestfor cashcompensation                 footnoteon definitionof replacementvalue). Ifthese were not paid,
insteadof relocationin many instanceswas           then affected peoplemay haverecourseto thegrievance
informedby ourfear of the unknown.These            mechanism.
landsare our ancestrallandsandwe
cannot leave it to totalstrangerswhile               Compensationratesfor all immovableassets and improvements
movingto someother locationto reside.              include considerationof future incomestreams (RAP page5-23).
Rulingelites inthe country inconnivances           Ftitureprofitsshould have beenconsideredas partof future income
with the oil multinationalshavebytheir             but ifthey have not beenadequately estimated, those affected have
actions and inactionsenhancedpovertyin             recourseto grievance redressprocesses.
our communities. Butthis does notgive
themthe rightto takeour landsor pay us
nextto nothingas compensationwhenwe
optedto stay onour land.

  Notall stakeholders hadaccessto the       4.12     Managementbelievesthatcompensationwas adequately
project information,andthe information             covered in consultations;tensionsthat mayhavedevelopedare not
providedwas not understoodby members        Discl. a resultof the project.
of our communities.That iswhy the           Polic

expectationsof our communitypeoplewere      Y       As pointedout in responseto Item2, WAPCo and its consultants
                                                   respondedto questionson compensationand landacquisitionthat
unnecessarily raisedonthe compensation            were asked by participantsat consultationsonthe EA. Inaddition,
we were to receive. Untilthe day some of          20 community meetingson RAP issueswere heldbetween
us collectedour compensations, we hadno            November2002and September2003. Further RAPworkshops
ideaof the criteria usedfor computingthe
compensationsto be paidfor the                    were conductedinAugust2003, at ljoko and ttoki villages, and at
                                                  Anuko-ljokovillage. InFebruary2004, there was another series of
acquisitionof our lands. We believethat            meetingson landacquisitionand the RAP, one each at Otta,
there was a deliberatepolicynotto disclose         Igbesa,and Badagry.WAPCostaff madepresentationsat the
all relevantinformationinorderto get our          workshotx onthecompensation principlesand processand, during



                                                     27

     ManagementResponse



                  Chim i bUB                    Bzpl
                                               OPI BP                              Respan-

supportfor the project.                               early2004, madeinformalvisits to affectedvillages in an effortto
  The mannerthe littleconsultationthat                ensuretherewas clear understanding. Listsof assetsto be
took placewas carried out is a recipefor              acquiredwere postedin publicplaces in March2004, after which
crisis andviolence inour communities.                 the inventoryof assets was completedwithfull participationof
There are stilltensions betweenthe                    ownersand users.WAPCo normally includedYoruba speakers in
landownersandthose of uswhose lands                   the teams that conductedthese and all other consultations.
were notacquiredbywhose livelihood                       The tensions that may havedeveloped betweenlandownersand
would invariably be affected bythe project.           others, betweenlandowners and users, andwithin families are
Someof uswould loseour farmlands;                     normalpartsof communitydynamics. The October2004 Bank
others maybe deniedeasy accessto their                missionwitnessed an example at its consultationmeeting in
farms andfishinggrounds.We believethat                Badagry-a group of landownersconfronted another group of
the sponsorsof the projectemployedthe                 citizens who had metwith NGOsand discussedenvironmental
classic divide and rusestrategy to their full         issueswithin48 hours precedingthe meeting.The landowners
advantage. Ourcommunitymembers have                   believedthattheother groupwas working to biockWAGP.The
yet to resolvethe bitternessand bickering             Bank missiontogetherwith the High Chief facilitated a discussionin
that was the hallmarkofthe selective                  which thedifferenceswere resolved. The non-landownersmade
consultationswhich took placewith a few               clearthatthey were notopposingthe project inany way but merely
landowners,while other land usersand                  trying to ensurethat the issuesthatconcernedthemwere also put
impactedpersonswere ignored.                          on thetable.
  Inanother exampleof conflictsthat arose,               WAPCoexpendedconsiderableeffortto identifythe actual
familieswereagainst eachother owingto                 owners of the parcelsacquiredor paitlyacquired, Neitherthe BAP
what some membersperceivedas the                      nor OP4.12 obligesWAPCoto becomeinvolvedinhow
small amountof compensationdeclared by                compensationis divided among membersof a famitv when the land
their family headswho signedfor and
collectedcompensationchequeson behalf
of theirfamilies. Familyheadswere
suspectedto havestashedpartof the
compensationfor their privateuse. This
perceptionwas entirelyfalse, but as there
was hardlyany informationonthe quantum
of compensationto family heads, rumorsof
dishonestyonthe partof family headswere
rifeandthese ledto bitter quarrelsand
even physicalfights. Itispertinentto note
that afamily inthesense usedhere
denotesthe extendedfamily system
practicedwidely inour communities.
  There were also instances where the
landowners and the land users (those who
lease lands for fanning) clashed over who
should be paid compensation and how the
compensationthat has been paidshould be
shared.

  At this moment, although land acquisition 4,12         ManagementagreesthatYoruba translationsof summary RAPS
has been completed and clearing of the                and EMPswere not disseminated, as requestedby the Bankin its
right-of-way is in progress, there is still noDisci.  supervision missionof June 2005. WAPCoconsideredthat, as most
translation of the ResettlementAction Plan    Polk    literateresidentsintheaffected communitiesreadEnglish, itwas
intoYoruba.                                    Y      not necessaryto undertaketranslations. However,these arenow
                                                      being undertakenandwill becompleted and disseminatedin
                                                      September2006.


                                                     I
  PovertyReductkm

  Evenat the levelof the supposed             4.15       Managementbelievesthatthe projectwill benefit, not impoverish
economicbenefitof the projectfor us as a              affectedpeople, boththrough resettlementcompensation,as well



                                                         28

                                                                         West African CasPipeline Project


                                                                                Reisponse

community,we think thisclaim is patently    4.12 as communitydevelopment, constructionandthe planned
false, illusory and diversionary. Firstly        permanentemployment.
employmentopportunitieswould only           4.01

includetemporarymanuallaborduring                  The EA identifiesthe economicbenefitsthat are likely to accrueto

constructionwork. As far as we know, no          communitiesalong the pipeline.These include: temporary

mechanismhas beenput in placeto ensure           employmentfor localresidentsin ROW clearing, pipe installation

that quaiified personsfromthe community          andconstruction; localpurchasesof materialsandsupplies during

with the relevantacademic credentialsare         construction;localsubcontractingfor constructionandmaintenance

putthroughtraining to secureemployment           services;and permanentemploymentfor a muchsmallergroup of

onafull term basis. This is despitethefact       residents(46) of the four participatingcountries inoperating and

thatwe have compiledandsubmittedthe              maintainingthe pipeline.Willbros, the contractorfor onshore

namesof graduatesfrom our communities            facilities, is behindscheduleandnotworking at fullstrength, andso

indierentfields, especially inthe areaof         the total numberdrawnfromthe locallaborpoolis notyet known.
engineering.                                     WAGP does notrequire a large laborforce. WAPCo is operating a
                                                 nine-monthtraining programinwhich 73 nationalsrecruitedfrom
  We thereforethink thatthis projectwill         thefour countries are beingpreparedfor long-termemployment.
further impoverishthe peopleof our               The recruitmentwas conducted by a nationally-knownrecruitment
communities.We will loseour lands,which          firm, andthe opportunitieswere publiclyadvertised. Nigerians
areour only meansof livelihood,without           number25 inthe group of trainees, andthe numberof positions
adequatecompensation,while onthe other           likelyto befilled in Nigeriais 16.
handwe do not havethe prospectof long
term alternativeemployment. We have                 WAPCo has committedto at least 15%"local contenr duringthe

oftenmadethe pointthatwe would not               constructionphaseof the projectandhasachieved 12.2%through

acceptto bemereonlookersinthis project,          March,c;pfrom 11.5% inJanuary. The companyexpectsto exceed
andthatwe want to be an importantpartof          15%;the delay inreachingthe target ismainlycausedby delay in

the project, but itseemsthat there isa           mobilizationbyWillbros, which isthe mainsource of demandfor
                                                 labor, materials andservices in Nigeria.To date,Willbros has
deliberatemoveto pushasidewith one
excuseor the other.                              expended$2.8 millionfor purchasesinNigeriathrough 16 different
                                                 contracts,or 6.4% of itstotal billing,upfrom 9% inJanuary.The
                                                 HDDsubcontractorof HorizonMarine,theoffshore pipeline
                                                 contractor,also employedlocallaborat Badagty.
                                                    Mostlandownershavelostonly small amountsof landanddo not
                                                 haveto move. Forthem, alternativeemployment is notan issue. Of
                                                 those whose housesor houseplotswere acquired, only two opted
                                                 for resettlement.Cashcompensationwas the nearly unanimous
                                                 choiceof all affectedlandownersor landusers. Moreover,the land
                                                 inthe ROW can stillbeusedfor grazingandfoot traffic.
                                                    Communitydevelopmentisacovenant inthe ProjectAgreement,
                                                 Section7fn). Inadditionto compensationfor directly affected
                                                 people,WAPCO has developedvoluntary CDPswithfull
                                                 participationof the membersof the affectedcommunities,under
                                                 whichWAPCo isfinancinglocaldevelopmentprojects identifiedby
                                                 the citizens as highpriority. The programbegan in2003withthe
                                                 self-assessmentsof needsand prioritiessummarizedinthe EAs.
                                                 Annualwork programsareagreedwith the communities.During
                                                 2004, the needslistswere verifiedand refinedwith assistanceof a
                                                 socialdevelopmentconsultant.WAPCo'sintentisto formulate a
                                                 comprehensive, five-year CDPfor allfour countriesinWAGP. As
                                                 an interimstep, thefinal agreement betweenWAPCo andthe
                                                 communitiesfor the firstyear of the programwas negotiatedinlate
                                                 2004 andearly2005. InNigeria, the MOUthat documentsthe
                                                 contentof the CDPfor each participatingcommunitywas signed by
                                                 the Consortiumon behalfof the 14 communitiesparticipating inthe
                                                 first year of the program.Sevenof them arecommunitieslisted
                                                 amongthe Requesters:Ajido, lmekeAgemowo, AraromiAle, llogbo
                                                 Eremi, fgbesa, Okoomi, and Itori.Annex 4 liststhe first year
                                                 projectsto be supported ineach community.WAPCo hassigned
                                                 and returnedthe MOUto the community leadersandwill disclose it
                                                 on itswebsite and provide IDAwithannualreportsonthe status of




                                                   29

    Management Response



                 CIaidosue

                                               Iimplementationas    requiredinthe ProjectAgreement.
                                               I
  Esonornk Evaluationof investment
Opemtions
  Another very importantpolicythatwas     10.04  Managementbelievesthatthe economicanalysis didconsider
violated isthe OperationaVPolicyand Bank        feasible alternatives andadequatelyevaluatedthe project's
Procedure10.04of September 1994,which           sustainability.
requiresthat the Bankevaluateinvestmenf
projectswith the aimof ensuringthat they          Inadditionto the ecoriomicanalysis carried out by Bank staff, a

promodethe developmentof goals of the           completeeconomic assessmentwas conductedby an economic

country, to do aproperconsiderationof           consultingfirm. The resultsof the latterwere presentedin anopen
feasiblealternativesincludingthe Wthouf         publicforum in September2004, inAccra, Ghana, attended by

project"situafion (as also requiredby OP        representativesof thefour WAGP countries, aswell asinthe PAD.
4.0t) andto evaluatethe sustainability,of       The resultsshow substantialeconomicbenefitsfor ail four countries

theprojecfs.                                    as well as for the investors.
                                                 Alternatives to WAGPwere consideredin Nigeria's Gas Master
                                                Planand Gas Strategy. The alternativesfor meetingthe energy
                                                needsof Ghana, Benin, andTogo thatwere consideredbothinthe
                                                economicand environmentalanatysesincluded:
                                                  1. The no-WAGPprojectscenario;
                                                 2. Developmentof small gas reserves inoffshore Ghanawaters;
                                                  3. Gas and power importsfrom Cotedlvoire;
                                                 4. Conversionof gasto electric power In Nigeriaand transmission
                                                to thethree consumingcountries; and
                                                 5. Transportof naturalgasthrough onshore routingof the
                                                pipeline.
                                                 The World Bank Groupcarried out an extensive assessmentof
                                                the project, includingdetailedtechnical,fiduciary, financial,
                                                economic,social, environment,politicaland reputational risk
                                                assessment (includedinthe PAD).The project metall of the
                                                requirementsunderthe Bank's policies.The assessmentconcluded
                                                that the project isa fair and reasonabletransactionfor all parties.
                                                This sharingof benefits isthe lynchpinof the projest's sustainability
                                                overthelongterm. Additionally, this projectwas assessedat lowoil
                                                pricescenarios, and givencurrent highoil priceprojections,much
                                                larger absolute benefitsto all participatingcountriesare anticipated.

  We believethat this projectwould not            Managementbelievesthatthe project's contributionto reduced
promotethe holisticdevelopmentinour             gasflaring is presentedwithoutoverstatementinthe economic
communityandeven inour countryas it is          analysisand-in order to see actual results-the annualvolume of
premisedonthefalse assumptionthat itwill        AG (nomally flared) is includedas one of the project's monitoring
reducetheflaring Dfassociatedgas in             indicators.
Nigeria. Fromthe facts inthe documents
availableto us it is unquestionablethat           Nigeriaand all majoroperators inNigeria are Partnersinthe

Nigeriaisthe biggestgasflaring countryin        Bank-led Global Gas FlaringReduction Partnership(GGFR). The

theworld. Flaringcontributesto the              GGFR is a forum of governmentsof oil-producingcountries,
                                                nationaloil companies, internationaloil companies, aswell as other
destructionof the landsand rivers inour
country,to serious healthproblemsand to         keystakeholders, includingthe World RankGroup, whose key
                                                objective isto supportthe effortsofthe petroleumsectorworldwide
the global phenomenonof Climate Change.         to reducetheflaringandventingof gas associatedwiththe
As such, gasflaring is doinggreat hamto




      Joint UNDPNVorldRank EnergySector ManagementAssistance Programme2004.




                                                 30

                                                                                   WestAfrican Gas Pipeline Project




                    Ctaidtssue                                                            Response

the environment,healthand livelihoodsof                  extractionof crudeoil.
Nigerians. Inaddition,flaring as opposedto
capturinggas entailsaneconomic loss.                        The FGNhas put in placea "Zero Gas Flaring Policgand routine

Accordingto estimatesof theWorld Bank                    gas flaring and venting is set to end in2008;6thiswill beformalized
                                                         ina Gas Act this year. Since2003, the FGN has not allowedany
itself, it costs Nigeriaabout US$2.5billion               new oilfielddevelopmentif itentailedflaring. This policy isstrictly
annually.                                                implementedand monitored.
  TheWAGP project's proponentsclaim
that associatedgas (whichis normally                        Nigeriahas a numberof policy initiatives to meet itsflare-out

beingflared)will bethe sourceof the                      targetfor 2008, of whichWAGP isa small part. WAGPwill transport
                                                          approximately5 percentof theAG that is producedin Nigeriaover
pipeline.We, inconjunctionwith
EnvironmentalRightsActionlFriendsof the                  the lifeof the project(about 1 billioncubic meters).
EarthNigeria, have requestedinfomzdion                      WAGP will usea mixtureof NAGandAG. "Initially, the gas soldto
thatwould showthat this isthe case.The                   theWAGPwill be about60%AG (reducingto about40% over 20
questionis important,sincethefields inthe                 years as associated, hithertoflaredgas, decreases), a largeportion
Westem NigerDeltawherethe gasfor                          of which would have beenotherwiseflaredinthe absenceof
WAGP will besourced,are generally non-                    productive usesof gas, includingthe (ELPS andthe) WAGP." (PAD
associatedgasfields. This means                           page6.)
additionalgas wells would bedrilled                         No single projectcouldcaptureallAG and operate soiely on it,
instead.                                                  since its availability iscioselytiedto andthus fluctuateswith oil
  Currently,theWAGP projectdesigndoes                     production. Gas pipelinesto deliver the gas volumescontractedfor
notdemonstratein concretetermsthat any                    by customersat the receivingend must be underthe same
amountof associatedgaswould be piped                      pressuremostof the time, which AG alonecannot provide,thus the
throughthe pipeline.As theWorld Bank                      necessityto mixAG and NAGin any pipelinesystem. (See EA
itself hassaid, 75%of gasflaring in Nigeria               Appendix2A for moredetails.)
is a resultof thefailure of proponentsof the                It isthe Bank's understandingthat 311significantvolumesof AG
West Africa Gas Pipeline Projectto put in                 have beenallocatedto gasflaring reductionprojects,either planned
placethe necessaryinfrastructureto                        or underimplementation, and to domestic marketuses.Therefore,
enhancegas utilizationinthe country.5 In                  additionalAGwould not beavailable to WAGP.
this situation, it is inappropriatefor the Bank             As stated inthe PAD(paragraph 7); "To supportthe initial
to supportWAGP, as itallowsproject                        demandfor gas fromWAGP, as well as some of the projected
sponsorsto continuethe unwarranted                        increaseindemandover the firstfiveto ten years of WAGP
degradationof our environmentand                          operation, productioncapabilityof 200 MMsd/dayhas been
livelihoods.                                              identifiedfrom existingoil andgas operations inthe Niger Delta...
  Inthis respect,the Bankalso failed to                   Consequently,constructionandoperation of WAGPdo notentail
take intoconsideration Nigeria's plansto                  any newenvironmentalor social impactsupstreamfor at leastf i e
doubleoil outputto 4 millionbarrelsof                     to ten years.Thereafter,the combined effects of deciiningvolume
crudeoil perday (fromthe present2.5                       of AGavailablefor WAGP and possibleincreasesindemandupto
millionbarrelsperday) by2010andthe                        WAGP's maximumcapacitywould necessitatenewwells and gas
expectedincreaseinnewoilfield                             gatheringsystems, with attendant impacts. The timing of theneed
development.This will inevitably leadto the               for additionalgas and the specific well locations,gatheringsystem
productionof moreassociatedgas.                           capacities, etc. cannot be identifiedand thereforewere not
  Without guaranteesthatWAGPuseonly                       addressedinthe regionaiEAor the EAfor Nigeria."
associated(otherwiseflared) gas, the                        Theoriginalupstreamproducers(andtheir affiliates) havethe
World Bank's supportfor WAGP will                         exclusive rightto transport natural gas onthe new pipelineuntila
increasethe useof non-associztedgas,                      threshotdhas beenmet       -thatthresholdisthe  earlier of contracted
which ischeaperto producethan                             capacities reaching200 MMscf/dayor 10years. The original
associatsdgas. WAGPwouldthus set a                        upstreamproducersare: (i) NNPC;(ii) Chevron NigeriaLimited
precedentof tooking solely at profit                      (CNL); (iii)The Shell PetroleumDevelopmentCompanyof Nigeria
margins, ratherthan the bestdevelopment                   Limited(SPDC); (iv) Elf PetroleumNigeria Limited(a subsidiaryof
interestof the peopleof this counby.                      TOTALSA.); and (v) Agip, organized intwojoint ventures
                                                          (NNPCICNLand NNPC/SPDC/Elf/Agip).Underthe agreementsto
                                                          purchasegas inthe Niger Delta, the original upstreamproducers


        Itis a possibilitythat the 2008flaring deadline may not be reached;the largest producer, Shell, has
      announcedthat progresshasbeenslowerthan it had hoped. Itnowexpectsto stop flaring at some point
      during2009.




                                                            31

    ManagementResponse



                  Claimilssue                                              Respanse

                                            havecovenanted, interalia,to complywith all applicable
                                            environmentaland social laws. After the thresholdhas beenmet,
                                            the pipelinewill beopenedto other future shippers underthe
                                            Access Code. To qualify for access,future shippers must, interalia,
                                            be incompliancewith environmentalandsociallaws in Nigeria.The
                                            WAGPAuthority is chargedwith monitoringcompliancewith the
                                            Access Code.
                                              Nigerianregulations requirecompletionof an approvedEA prior
                                            to issuance of permitsfor newwells and relatedfacilities, andthe
                                            permitsrequireimplementationof environmentalmanagementand
                                            monitoringmeasures identifiedinthe uI\.
                                              W& regardto profit margins, as notedearlier,the Bank's detailed
                                            assessmentof the projectshowsthat the commercialstructure
                                            allowsfor a fairand reasonablesharingof benefitsto all
                                            participants. As a fuel switichingproject,WAGP allowsthe
                                            consumingcountriesto switchto cheaperand climatefriendly gas.
                                            As a producer,the projectallows Nigeriato monetize its natural
                                            resourceat reasonableprices.Onthewhole, the projectis
                                            expectedto result in significantnet economicbenefitsto each of the
                                            four participatingcountries.
                                              The amount of gas carriedbyWAGP is afunction of demand in
                                            the receivingcountries ratherthan of oil output.

  supervision
  TheWorld Bank'sOP 13.05 requiresthe         Managementbelievesthat the projecthasbeenwell prepared,
Bankto ensurethat the borrower              andsupervision includesmultiplelayers of oversight, which had
implements theprvjectwith due diligence     alreadyidentifiedthe issuesraised inthe request.The effectiveness
andto identifyandfake stepsto resolve       of monitoringand follow-up will be reviewedbythe independent
problemsinimplementation.As will become     expert panel.
clearfrom the elaboration below,wefeel
stronglythattheWorld Bankhasfailed to         ProjectPreparation.The Bankand MlGA engagedwithWAPCo

comply withthis policy.                     and its consultantson environmentalandsocial safeguards eariy
                                            andoften during project preparation.The full chronologyof
  Manyof the problemscausedbythe            interactins and key eventsisshown inAnnex 3. Altogether, senior
WAGP project's sponsorswere not             Bank and MICAsafeguardsstaff conductedor participatedin 25
anticipatedor resolvedbythe World Bank      meetingsor teleconferenceswith WAPCoand its consultantsand
as required bythis policy.We considerthe    providedwritten commentson all keysafeguards documentsduring
problemswith the projectsponsors            projectpreparation.
mentionedbelowa resultof theWorld
Bank's failure to adequatelysupervisethe      FromAugust 2002to June2003, the Bank and MIGAworked

project's preparationand implementation.    closelywith WAPCo on the scope andTORSof the EL4and RAP. A
                                            resefflementexpertfrom the Bankvisited allWAGP sites inJune
                                            2003 and providedadditionaladvice on RAPpreparation.
                                              The first draftof the EAwas commentedonextensively inwriting
                                            by the Bank Group in February2004, and numerousmeetingsand
                                            telephone discussionstook place beforetheseconddraftwas
                                            delivered in May2004. MlGA safeguardsstaff madesitevisits on
                                            March30,2004, and attendedthe public hearingheldby FGNon
                                            March31. After further revisions, Bankclearanceof the EA for
                                            disclosurewas issuedon June IO, 2004. The first draf4of the RAP
                                            was receivedand reviewedbythe Bank Groupon June 3,2004,
                                            and it aiso requiredextensiverevisions. The revisedRAPwas
                                            clearedfor disclosure onJum 23,2004. Bank environmental,
                                            social, and communications staff conductedconsultationsat three
                                            locationsin NigeriainOctober2004, to follow up on the
                                            consultationsheldduring EA and RAPpreparation. The overall
                                            assessmentof participantswas thatWAPCo's consultationshad
                                            beenadequate.




                                              32

                                                                       WestAfrican GasPipeline Project



                 ClaJdIssue                                                   Resgansa,

                                                  Projectl m ~ ~ e m e The~institutionalarrangementsfor the
                                                                             ~    t i ~ ~ .
                                               projectprovidefor multiple layers of supervisionof EA and RAP
                                               implementationduring constructionof the pipelinebyWAPCo,
                                               cooperating governmentsandthe Bankand MIGA, as wellan
                                               independentexpert panel.Sincethe projectis being implemented
                                               by the privatesector, the arrangementsreflectthe private
                                               enterprise's responsibilities,legalobligations, andcorporate policies
                                               for planning, construction,andoperationof its investment.The
                                               WAGP projectteam undercontractto WAPCo hasoverall
                                               responsibilityfor projectsupervisionfor the developer, includingfor
                                               implementationof the EnvironmentandSocial ManagementPian
                                               (ESMP)developedinconjunctionwith the EA. RAP implementation
                                               isalsooverseen bythis group. TheWAGP team kstaffed by
                                               expertson assignmentfromthe projectsponsors (Chevron, Shell,
                                               NigeriaNationalPetroleumCorp., andVRA (the mainconsumerof
                                               the gas, inGhana).The ESMPis madeupof elements that address
                                               health,environmentandsafety. Eachcontractor isobligatedto
                                               preparea detailedhealth, environment andsafety (HES)planand
                                               have it reviewedand acceptedbyWAGP priorto initiationof
                                               construction. Eachcontractor mustestablishan HESmanagement
                                               organizationand providetraininginaccordancewith the ESMP.
                                                  The projectcalls for three levelsof "audit"to supplementnormal
                                               oversightof ESMPimplementation. Level3 consists of auditsof
                                               contractor performanceconductedby theWAGP team. Level2
                                               auditsare conductedmonthlyduringconstruction,by WAGP
                                               managerswho are notmembersof the constructionsupervision
                                               team. Level1 monitoringand auditsare carried out bythirdparties
                                               undercontractto WAPCo. To datethere have beenthree
                                               independentmonitoringmissions, and afull, independent audit of
                                               ESMPimplementationbeganon May8,2006.
                                                  Supervisionbythe Bankand MIGA, plus plannedoversight by an
                                               independentexpert panel,is inadditionto what is describedabove.
                                               The Bank and MlGAsupervisedthe projectspecificallyfor ESMP
                                               and RAP implementationinJune2005, holdingconsultation
                                               meetingsat Badagryand 0th.At thattime, noconstructionwork
                                               had begunin Nigeria, andso the missionfocusedonconsultation,
                                               RAPimplementation, andthe status of activities such as design of
                                               the CPDsandpreparationof emergencyresponseplans.The
                                               issues raisedduringthe missionwere: inadequatecompensation,
                                               needfor emergency responseplan, implementationof CQPs,and
                                               employmentof locallaborandcontractors. Bank staff followed up
                                               onthese issues(See items9 and 13).
                                                  Inadditionto the June2005 mission, Banksafeguards staff have
                                               metwithWAPCo health,safety and environmentstafforWAPCo
                                               managementonfour occasions (11/4/05,2/9/06,3/22/06,and
                                               5/12/06) for briefingson progressandfollow-up on open issues.
                                               Other membersof the Bankteam havemetwith the WAGP
                                               Authority (Juneand October,2005) andWAPCO management
                                               (January,April and May, 2006)for discussionsonthe project.A
                                               field missionfor supervisionisoverdue andwill be conducted inthe
                                               first quarier of FY 2007.

 We havemadestrenuouseffortsto make              Manyof the Requesters'concernswere raisedduring preparation
the views thatwe havecanvassedhere             and are addressed inthe PADindetail. The remainingissuesare
available to the proponentsof the project      relatedto implementation,andso only arose during supervision.
andthe Bankitself, includingduringvisits of    These are now beingaddressedbythe team.
the West AfricanGas PipelineCompany
(WAPCo)andthe WorldBank,the first of             The Bank and MIGAmetwith Nigeriancommunities-including
                                               manyof those that comprisethe Requesters-duringconsultations



                                                 33

     ManagementResponse



                  CtairrPnssue                                                Response

which took placeon October 30,2004 at           at the time of appraisalin Badagryand Otla in October2004, and
WhisperingPalmsat Badagry, Lagosand             again at the same locationsduringthe safeguardssupervision
the secondinJune2005.                           missionof June 2005. At the Badagrymeetings,the following
  However,we are disappointedwith the           issuescovered inthe Requestwere presentedto the Bank:
completeinactiontaken to addressour                  Non-landownersas stakeholders
concerns. We also knowthat several
organizations have raisedthesesame                0  Needfor emergencyresponseplanawareness
concernswiththe Bank at forums such as            0  Deliveryof promisedcompensation
duringthe civilsociety consultationwith the       0  Accessto information
Bank's teamto Nigeriaon 29 October 2004.
We havethereforedecidedto usethe                  a  Needfor locallanguagesummaries
InspectionPanelto further reiteratethat our          Employmentof localpeople
concernsandfears have not been                       Access to the EA.
addressedneitherbythe Bank northe
proponentsof the project.                         The Bank's initialfollow-up regarding compensationwas based
                                                on concernsraisedat Otta inJune 2005; the payment recordsthat
  Forsometime now,our communities,              the Bank analyzedwersfor 14communitiesinthe Ottaarea. This
supported by civilsocietygroups, have           group includedthree of the Requesters:Egushi Benja, Igboloye,
beenexpressingconcernsin relationto the         andArobieye. The recordsare being reviewedby a resettlement
project. These issues include:                  specialist,whose findings and recommendationsare anticipatedby
  paymentof inadequatecompensationto            May31,2006. Since receivingthe Request,the Bank has asked
landowners;                                     WAPCo to providethe correspondinginformationfor the nineother
  the mannerinwhich Environmental               communitiesincludedamongthe Requesters.
ImpactAssessmentwas carriedout;                   On emergencyresponse, the Bank receivedassurancesfrom
  the inabilityof the communitiesand            WAPCothat responseplanswould becompletedinearly2006 and
groupsto pinpointthe locationwhere the          discussedwith allaffected communities priorto any transmissionof
draft EnvironmentalImpactAssessment             gas. The system-wide planwas issuedin May2006. WAPCoheld
documentwas displayed;                          communitymeetingson emergency responsein February2006and
                                                will holdadditional meetingsinthe third quarter of 2006 after
  the project's unconvincingapproachto          detailed,site-specific response plansare prepared.
the issueof gas flaring:                               Bank has no recordsof the other issues notedinthe Request
  thefailure of the proponentsof the project    -The
to cany out an EnvironmentalImpact                 that is, gasflaring, EAof the ELPS,environmental degradation,
                                                economicanatysis, and povertyalleviation-as havingbeenraised
Assessmentinareas alongthe existing             to the Bankor MIGA bythe Requesters,althoughmostof them
Escravos-Lagospipelinethatwillfeed gas          havebeendiscussedon several occasionsbetween NGOs-
intothe new pipeline.                           Friendsof the Earth(FOE)and EnvironmentalRightsAction
                                                (Embandthe Bank, for exampleat a meetinginWashingtonon
                                                April 19,2004. Ina letterfrom FOEdated November 18,2004,on
                                                the eve of Boardpresentation,NGOsurgedthe ExecutiveDirectors
                                                to delay action onthe projectuntilconditionsrequiringattentionto
                                                thesame issuescouidbe included.These issuesare addressedin
                                                the PADindetailandwere knownto the Executive Directorswhen
                                                they approvedthe project.

  Dkclasureof Information

  Wevisitedthe BadagryandOlorunda                 Managementnotesthat the early 2004draftswere disclosedfor
localcouncilsecretariats inJanuary2004 in       NigerianPublicHearingand PermitReview, butthen revisedas a
order to makeinformedcommentson the             resultof the hearingsanddisclosed,as requiredfor Bank
EIA. However,this was impossiblebecause         standards, inJuly 2004.
the documentwas unavaila4)e.We
understandthat it is now availableonthe          WAPCodisclosedthefirst draftof the Nigeria EA inearly 2004 in

internet. But lookingatthe sizeof the           order to meetdisclosurerequirementsfor Public Hearingand
                                                PermitReviewbythe FGN.The disclosurewas announcedin"town
document, the lowliteracy level inour           hall" meetings, radio spots, and newspaperadvertisements.Within
communitiesand non-availabilityof internet      aweek afterdisclosure, a national NGO informedWAPCo andthe
serviceinour communities, itwill take us
forever to decipherwhat isinthe document.       Bankthat ithad not been ableto gain accessto the reportinLagos

Italso meanswe would haveto hire                and at the localgovernmentadministrationof Badagry. The Bank

mnsuttantsto combthroughthe EIA                 expressedconcernto WAPCo, andWAPCo staff visited all




                                                 34

                                                                     WestAfiican Gas PipelineProject




                ClaitWkssoe                                                 Response

documentsseeking relevant data that we        locations and corrected the problemswithina matter of days.
may needto respondto.                           The EA and RAP as cleared for disclosure by the Bank (thethird
  Inaddition, itwould have been helpful if    and second drafts, respectively) had been disclosed at 11locations
relevant portionsof the largedocuments        in Nigeria by July 7,2004, including at Badagry, Ado-Qdo, Otta, and
had been reproducedinYoruba, the              Ifo. WAPCo staff verified that they were indeedaccessible, andthe
language commonly usedin our                  Bank has not received any information to the contrary. They were
communities, and distributed to impacted      also placed onWAPCo's website and that of the Bank's Infoshop,
communities. This, no doubt, would have       butthe Bank did not rely solely on internet for disclosureinthe
assisted usto makethe informed                project-affected areas becauseof limitedaccessibility.
comments required bythe sponsors and            The Bank mission's adviceto WAPCofor translatins of the
theWorld Bank.                                ExeeutiveSummaries to be distributedto communities is recorded
                                              inthe October 2004 BTOR.WAPCo had not madethe translations
                                              at the time of the request, becauseof itsopinionthat literacy in
                                              English is rektively high in Nigeria, butit is now doing so, with
                                              completion scheduledfor September 2006.




                                                35

Management Response


                                        Annex 2.
                                S DURING EA AND            P PREPARATION

M P CONSULTATlONS

1.      Meetingsto discuss land acquisition and resettlementbegan in 2002. Twenty
individualcommunity meetingswere held. The meetingsat Igbesa, Badagryand Otta in
July 2003 were open fora for groups of communities, and estate surveyorswere present
to explainthe proposedWAGP ROW acquisition and the process of landacquisitionand
cornpensation. Minutesof those three meetings show that at least six of the Requester
communitieswere represented:Ajido, Araromi-Ale, Igbesa, Igboloye, llogbo Eremi, and
lyesi, plus peoplewho listedthemselvesas beingfrom Badagryor Otta. Issues
discussed besides landacquisition and compensationwere safety, employmentof
locals, the EA process, and community development benefits.

                    Nigeria: CommunityMeetingsInvolvingRAP Discussions
                      Date       Location          Date         Location
                  I1/7/2002     Badanw      II12/18/2002   lgbesa
                  11/7/2002     lgbe& -       12/20/2002   Badagry
                  11/7/2002     lgbesa        5/29/2003    Ajido
                  11/7/2002     imeke         711012003    lgbesa
                  11/7/2002     lmeke         711ll2003    Badagry
                  11/7/2002     lmeke         711212083    Otta
                  11/20/2002    Lemode        7/28/2003    Otta
                  11/2012002    Otta          9/26/2003    ljokolltoki
                  11/20/2002    Owode         8/3/2003     ljoko Erinko
                  11/25/2002    Ewupe         8/3/2003     itoki
                  11/25/2002    Ewupe
               Source:Nigeria WP, Chapter7

2.      Starting in early 2004, WAPCo carried out a series of RAP activities implemented
as partof RAPdisclosure. These included:

   0    Disclosureof the compensationprocessand principlesat pubsicworkshops and
        in affectedvillages with opportunitiesfor affected peopleto providefeedback;

   e    Completion of the inventoryof affected assets with full participationof the
        Dandowners and users as a follow up to the postingof these assets in public
        placesin March2004; and

       Verification and updateof the census crf land owners.

ENVIRONMENTALIMPACTASSESSMENT CONSULTATIONS

3.     Through May 2004, WAPCo or its EA consultants had conducted 35 formal
consultationswith stakeholders in Nigeria,25 of which were with cornmunitiesor local
governmentthat are documentedin Chapter 5 and Appendix 5-D of the EA. Therewere
also numerousinformalconsultationsthat were not documented.




                                            36

                                                               WestAfrica??GQSPipeline Project



      I       WAGP Consultation Summary byCountryand individualStakeholder*
           Stakeholder    I             StakeholderName               I    No. of   1




      Source: Nigeria EIA,Chapter5

4.    The EA consultationswere opportunitiesfor stakeholdersto raise any issues or
concerns pertinent to the humanand naturalenvironment.However, the questions most
frequently raisedby the participantswere about land acquisitionand compensation.
Publicawareness and the EA processwere the next mostfrequent, followed in
importance by safety.

                      WAGP Stakeholder ConsultationSummary Nigeria*
                                                              -
                           tssue Category             No. of Consultations
                                                      Where tssue is Raised
                                      EIA Related Issues
                 AwarenesslEducation                          12
                 LandAcquisition Compensation
                                  -                           23
                 EIA                                          12
                 CommunityDevetopment                          4
                 Safety                                        9
                 CommunityReaction
                 Implementation  -Contractors                  61
                 Implementation-Employment                     3
                                    Mon-EiARelatedIssues
                 Advocacy

                 IPA/TREATY - Ratification
                 Gas Market

                 IPNRegulatory
                 Other
                 PemittindFEED (Technical)                     2
               Source: Nigeria EIA,Chapter 5




                                             37

            Management Response


                                                      Annex 3.




       April 5,2001      Discussionof EAand RAP requirementsandscoping             WAPCO, MlGA
      August 21,2002     Meetingto discussEA process,scopingandtiming              WAGP investors, MIGA, IDA
      October7,2002      Discussionsof EAand RAPTermsof Reference                  WAPCO, ICF (EA and RAP
                                                                                   consultants),IDA, MlGA
  ~~~


-     February21, 2003   Detaileddiscussionson EA scoping and baselinestudies      ICF, IDA, MlGA
      March 12,2003      Written commentson EA baselinestudy proposals             IDAto WAPCO
      March 19,2003      Written commentson RAPTOR, stressing needfor              IDAto WAPCO
                         comDensationat marketvalue
1      ADril. 3.2003   I Meetinato discusstmaress on EAbaselinestudies           I WAPCO, ICF, MIGA, IDA       I
                ~
       April 9,2003      M1GAreceives"Definitive Application" fromWAGP investors   MlGA
                         and beginsformal due diligence onWAGP
       ADril29.2003      Writtencommentson householdsurvey protocol                IDAto ICF                    I
1      A~ril30.2003    I Meetinato discusshouseholdsurvey protocol                                             I




     September3, 2003    Meetingto discussenvironmentalandsocial issues            IDA,WAPCO
      October31,2003
I                      I FSAP
                         Teleconferencediscussingorganizationand membershipof    I IDA,WAPCO                   I
                                                                                   WAPCOand IDA




     December21,2003   I FirstdraftsofEAsdelivered                               I WAPCOto
                                                                                  I
                                                                                              IDA, MlGA




                       I                                                           ICF
      February5,2004   I Writtencommentsfrom  Bankon draft EAsfor Togo and Benin,  IDAto WAPCO, cc OPIC, MIGA,



                                                           38

                                                                             WestAjEcan GasPipeline Project




                                                                                     rrttennotesprovi
 February18,2004              commentson socialaspectsof thefour country EAs, by       to WAPCO, cc OPIC, MIGA,




                                                                                    ChevronTexaco, Shell, IDA, MIGA

                                                                                    WAPCOto IDA, MIGA
                                                                                    IDAto WAPCO


                                                                                    IDA: EXTCDManager,Abuja Office
                                                                                    CommunicationsOfficer
-
March29-Apri(O7,2004  Due diligencemission,with fieldvisits and attendance at       MIGA: Senior SocialSector
                      nationalpublic hearingson EAs in allfourWAGP countries        Specialist, Senior Environmental
                                                                                    Soecialist; OPlCenvironmentalstaff
    April 7,2004      e-mail explainingthe RAPrevisionis underway                   WAPCOto IDA
   April 15,2004      Telephoneconversationon what is necessaryto complete EAs      WAPCO, IDA
                      and RAPS
   April 19,2004      Meetingon issuesraisedby NGOs: documentsnotaccessible,        IDA, Friendsof the Earth,
                      EA ignores ELPS,flaring reduction insufficientand not         EnvironmentalRightsAction/Oil
                      guaranteed,environmentallsocialproblemsin Niger Delta,        Watch, Bank InformationCenter
                      problemswith consultations
   April 22,2004      Meetingon EA issues includingdownstreamconditionalities,      IDA,WAPCO, ICF
                      economic analysis, conditionof UPS, progresson archeology
                      surveys; also landacquisition, urgencyof Bank approvaiof the
                      Droiect, rewriteof rwionalEAwill be delivered5/7,2004
   Mav 17.2004       1Bankreceivesreviseddraftof Niaeria EA                         WAPCo to IDA




   June 10.2004     I Clearanceto disclosethe Niaeriafinaldraft EA                ! IDAtoWAPCo



                                                         39

      ManagementResponse




                                                                               IDAto WAPCo
                                                                               WAPCO, IDA

                                                                               IDA

                                                                               IDA,WAPCo
                                                                               IDA.WAPCo
September3, 2004   InternalmeetingonWAGP and ExtractiveIndustriesReview        IDA
September9,2004   Meetingon stakeholder commentson EAs; WAPCO                  WAPCO, IDA
                  environmentalstaff travelingto the regionto address any that
                  have beenreceived                                           -
September23,2004  Economicand FinancialAnalysisWorkshop      -- Accra,Ghana    IDA, Governments, NGOs,
                                                                               WAPCO. other stakeholders
September24,2004   Discussionon EA review,status of environmentalpermitin      Ghana EPA, IDA
                   Ghana, needsto buildcapacityto monitorlarge projects-
                  Accra
September24,2C04   Meetingoncommentsreceived,status of publichearing           WAPCO, IDA
                   reportsand decisionson environmentalpermits inallfour
                   coun~es  -Accra
September29,2004  Teleconferenceonwhat isneededtofinalize Regional EA          WAPCO. IDA
 October6.2004     Meetingto discussfulfillmentof Boardconditions(preparation  WAPCO, ICF: IDA
                  of free-standingEMPs)andfinalizationof RegionalEA
October9-17,2004   Missionto appraiseandvalidate consultations byWAPCO in      IDA, FOE Ghana, FOETogo, Third
                   Benin, GhanaandTogo                                         World Network,other NGOs, local
                                                                               officials, communities
October27-31,2004  Missionto appraiseandvalidate consultations byWAPCO in      IDA:AFR Safeguards Coordinator,
                   Nigeria,with NGOmeetingin Lagos,field visits and community  Senior Partnershipand CivilSociety
                  meetingsin Badagryand Otta                                   Specialist, Senior SocialScientist,
                                                                               OperationsAnalyst;WAPCO
                                                                               community relationsstaff as
                                                                               observers
November 19,2004   Friendsof the Earthand other NGOswriteto EDsaskingthem      FOE (variouschapters), ERA,
                  to delayvote onWAGP untilavariety of conditionsare added     African Networkfor Economicand
                                                                               EnvironmentalJustice (Nigeria)
November22,2004   Friendsof the EarthGhanaissuespressrelease criticalof        FOEGhana
                   Bank andWAGP
November23.2004  I BoardamrovalofWAGP                                          IDA, MIGA



   May3,2005      Updateon lawsuitstatus as of 3/30/05 received, includingtext WAPCoto IDA
                  of the courtfiling
  June 2,2005     DetailedESMPfor Nigeria submitted                            WAPCo to IDA
 June 12-17/05    Joint IDA-MIGASupervisionMissionto Benin, Ghana, Togo        IDA:AFR SafeguardsCoordinator;
                  and Nigeria:focus on safeguards implementation,includedsite  MIGA: Senior SocialSector
                  visits to Badagryand Otta; FOE, ERAandother NGOsinvited      Specialist, Senior Environmental
                  to meetingin Lagos but didnot attend                         Specialist, MIGA,WAPCO
                                                                               community relationsstaff as
                                                                               observers
 August 23,2005   WAPCo noties IDAinwriting of change inamount of landto       WAPCo to IDA
                  beacquiredinTema industrialzonefor pipestorage
 August 31,2005   First independentmonitoringreporton M Pand HSEMP             ERMConsulting
                  implementationissued
November4,2005    Briefingon environmentalandsocial issues, implementationof   WAPCO, IDA



                                                      40

                                                                              WestAfrican GasPipeline Project




   December2005




II  Mav6,2006         First independentauditof ESMPimplementationbegins
    Mav9,2006      1I WAPCosubmits     4/7/06 surnmaw of land acauisitionin Nineria II ICFConsulting
                                                                                               IDA               1I
    May 12,2006 I Third      BriefingbyWAPCo health, safety and environmentofficer WAF'CO, IDA
                                                                                    I WAPCoto




                                                        41

Management Response




                   WAGPLISTOF
                         COMMUNITYAnnex    4.
                              YEARDEVELOPMENTPROGWA
                                     ONE PARTICIPANTS


             llogbo-Eremi         1 healthcenter
            Ajido               II water
                                    water borehole, healthcenter
          II Okoomi                       borehole
             ltori                I water borehole                  II
             Ore-Akinde             health center
             lmeke                  classroom blocks
             Ewupe                  classroom blocks
             Ijoko-Otta             classroomblocks,water borehole
             lgbesa                 healthcenter
             Paako-BadagryTown      water borehole




                                      42

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 34806

2                     1                      0                     1                 2                        NIGERIA      This map was produced by
                                                                                                              Area of Map                                               Coker
   Kumasi                                                                                BENIN                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                            Orogbe
                                                                                                                                colors, denominations and                                             Onihale
                                                                      TOGO             PORTO NOVO                                                                                                                Agoro
                                                                                                                      Lagos     any other information shown
                                                                                            Cotonou                             on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                Oba
                                                                                                                                legal status of any territory,
                                                                    LOM                                                                                                                                                             Alade
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Alade                                      Orudu-Olokan
                                                                                               PROPOSED ONSHORE                 or any endorsement or                Mero
6           G H A N A
                                                                                                     PIPELINE                   a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                                                                                                                                boundaries.                                     RiverIju
                                                                                               UNDER THE PROJECT                                                                                                  Owode                                  Ijoko                                                      Magado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ijako
                                          Tema                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALAGBADO TEE
                                                                                              EXISTING ESCRAVOS-LAGOS                                                        Ilogbo                                                       Road
                               ACCRA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pipeline
                                                                                                        PIPELINE                                                                                             Isorosi                                                            Escravos  Lagos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Otta                   Itoki                                               Magboro
                                               PROPOSED OFFSHORE                                                                                                                                                                Ijoko
                                                        PIPELINE                                                                                                                Mosafejo                                             Sango-Otta
                                                UNDER THE PROJECT
                                                                                                                            5                                                                                                                                                  Lambe                    Igaun
                                                                                PROPOSED WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELINE                                                Isale
Takoradi                              GULF     OF       GUINEA                  EXISTING GAS PIPELINES                                                                                       Etere
                                                                                                                                                                   Igboloye                                                                            Alagbado          Oke-Aro
                                                                                GAS TERMINAL OUTLET POINTS                                                                                                                    Otta                                                                  Aketu-Oja
                                                                                SELECTED CITIES                                                                                       Egushi Benja
        0        50        100 Kilometers
                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITALS                                         Atan
4      0      25        50     75 Miles                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    4                          Proposed Location                          Mopin                                                       Ijaiye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Iju
2                     1                      0                     1                 2                     3                                      of Isolation Valve       Arobieye                                                                          Junction
                                                                                                                                                                                Oloya/Abiola
                                    NIGERIA                                                                                                                                                                           River                                                   Ifako
                                         Isalu                                                                                                        Kajola                                                                                                                                              Iseri
            REQUEST FOR INSPECTION:                                                   Olorunsola                                                                                                 Itori                     Ilo
                                                                                                                                                                                  Itori                                                                                                     Omole
  WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT                                                                          Onigbongbo                                   Erinle                                            Ewu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ikola                                                                    River
                                                                                                                                                              Okomi
                             23 PROJECT-AFFECTED VILLAGES                                                                                    River Ore                                                                                                                                                               Ogun
                                                                                                                                                      Akere                                                Olugbode                           Ipaja
                             LOCATION OF REQUESTORS                                                                  Owoye                                                           Oluke

                             PROPOSED PIPELINE ROUTE                                                                                                                  Fowowawo                                                                                                                  Eregun
                                                                                       Onimosalas                                                                                                                                           Atan                                       IKEJA
                             PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD                                                                                                                                        Idimu
                    Owo      EXISTING ESCRAVOS-LAGOS GAS PIPELINE
                                            ADO-ODO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ojota
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Itele
                             PRIMARY ROAD NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ogudu          Oruba

                             SECONDARY ROAD NETWORK                                                                                                                                                        Olorunda                            Idowu
                                                                                                                                                                             Muta
                             TOWNS                                                                Oniloabo                                                                                                                                                                    Oshodi
                             STATE CAPITAL
  Onfo
                             STATE BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                                              Ikotun                       Eligbo                       Oworonsoki


                   Ere            0      1    2      3      4    5   6        300'E
                                      .5                                                                                                                River                                                                                                               Isolo
                                                                                                                                                                       Igbessa                                                                                                     Mushin
                                               KILOMETERS                       Eruku                                                                           Isaku
                                             (approximate scale)                                                                                                               Iteku         RiverOwo                         Ijegun                                                 Suru-Lere
                                                                                                                                                   Agbara                                                 Iba                                                                                                        Lagoon
 630'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Itire                                             630'N
                                                                        Idagha Iyesi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lake
                                                                                                   Ilogbo
                                        Irago                                                                                                                  Ijanikin
                                                                Ipota
                                                                                                                                            Ologe                                                                                                                          Coker
           Yewa   River                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Iganmu
                                                                                     Araromi Ale
                                                                                                                                          Lagoon                                                                                                       Amuwo                                            Iddo

    Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ikoyi
                                                                                                      Obele                                                                                                                                                                                               LAGOS
    of the West African Gas Pipeline Project                                                                                                                                            Igbede               Ojo
    (representing 12 communities)                                                Imeke Agemowo                             Ikotun                  Idoluwo
                                                             Aradagun                                                                                                                                                                             Isunba                         Apapa
                                                                            Imeke                          Gbanko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Victoria
                                           Proposed Lagos Beach                    Access Road to Dock                              Moba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Island
                                            Compressor Station                                                                                                                                            Iyagbe                                            Imore
            BADAGRY                 Topo                                                 Iworo                                                                                                                                            Ibese adagry Creek         Igbologun
                                                                Akarakum         Ajido             Badagry Creek                                                          Irewe                                                                  B
         Badagry Creek
                                                                                                                     Tafi                                                                                                                                                                   Okeogbe
                                                                                                                                              Maroko
                                                                    Badagry Beach                                                                                                                             ATLANTIC                        OCEAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAY 25, 2006

      ANNEX111

SUPPORTINGLETTERFROM
        GHANA


Friday, June 09,2006

The Executive Secretzriat
The hspectionPanel,


 200433



Dear Sir


                                                                 ANA (FOE-GH.)


We write to you to express ow support for ow colleagues inNigeria inrelation to a complain
lodged bythe lfesowapo Host Con1mu ties host F o m ofthe West Africa Gas pipelineproject
                     inspection panel on the West Africa ~ a s p ~ ~ e ~We e .
                                                                            i nwould like to ask that
our namesbe added to the request for inspection. By this letter we also wish to inform you of
issuss we consider critical to the ~ ~ ~ l e ~ e n t ao ftthe nWest A ea Gasp~pe~i~eProject and
                                                          j o
believeingood faith that a call for meaningfulaction will heed e concerns raised inthis letter
ofcomplaint.

    ile we acknowledge the ~ o ~ ~of~energyu~ e~ ~ ~~ eo ~toopovertye alleviation in the West
                                                 b                     ~ ~ ~     n t
     ca subregion, we wish to draw your a ~ t e ~tot theocritical issue of lack oftransparency
                                                           ~    ~
duringrheproject's design and assessments. At your own insistence, the promoters ofthe WAGP
         integrated public consultation     engagement int~ project's desi
                                                                 the
        tion ofthe vital importance of      erstanding stikeholders' o p ~ ~ ~ ~ s .
recogpized need for public c ~ n s ~ ~ t ahas o
                                            t i not~ beenadequately addressed, and the persistent
calls from civil society o r g ~ ~ ~ afor this~tosbe underiaken have gone unheeded.
                                        ~ i o

It is on record ( the media) that Ghana's Energy Conimission raised major concerns regarding gas
pricingbenefit sharkg and the pmject's longtern1 economic benefits to Ghana. As you may be
aware, the EnergyCommission is a democratic statutory ~ ~ s t ~that ~ t    t owes~itsocreation,
                                                                                        ~
existence and responsibility to the people of Ghana. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~any~concern n t ~ y
                                                                               ~ e raised by such,aE
institution shouldbe accorded the necessary~          t    tit deserves. However,~we have hilowedthe
                                                                ~   ~    ~    t      ~     ~
WAGP development process and have to date ne evidence to suggest that the c o ~ s u ~ ~ ~ t ~ o ~
process has been expm edto examine the Commission's ~ ~ n ~ e ~ s .

In oar view, it i         y revisiting this critical eo                      sure s t r e ~ ~ ~national~
                                                                                                  e n e
                                                                                  c o ~ ~ ~ ~aevital pillar
                                                                                                  r e d




                                                  crucial barrier to achieving `sustainable
                                                 pact ~ s s ~ s sdetailedta clear emerge
                                                                      ~ e ~
                                                  t with the WAGP ~ n ~ a ~ t ~However~iteis,very
                                                                                        c t ~
 ~   c   e the~extent ~
                  a    to w~                                l e to utilize such a system in
an accident such as a fire outbreak resultingfrom the WAG

                                                              ~~~~a lacks the requisite capacity to
                                                                                illcontingencyresponse
                 is to be the modelfor managing
          de. In2005 several fives were lost as a
            hisamplyreflects the country's lack ofcapacity to deal with such m emergency
situation. ~    ~    ~    einteractionwithelocal
                              ~   ~    r         ,   ople suggests they do not have my better
u ~ ~ ~ e r s t aofdhow ~ respon
                 n ~ n to                             y situation. Security is a humanright and, as
such, is a very crucial issue. It shouldbe emphasized that WAG is immune from responsibility
for any indirect impacts inthe course afthe project d ~ ~ , e ~ o ~ nThis .
                                                                         i e n taspect raises yet more
s i ~ ~concerns because ordinarypeople with limited howledge and understanding of
                ~ c ~ t
emergency responsemanagement could easily cause a fire outbreak as a result of a gas le&
incident and this would have extremely sePious consequences, yet the WAGP would be ~                     ~   -
from liability because the project is registered inBemuda outside any ofthe laws o fthe
   untPies in West Africa. We are aware ~fyour expressedconcerns for hum
   t you will use your influenceto re-examine these concerns md the existi
the W A ~ ~ , a nsodestab'iish~h~necessa~stllscttares a t wromote~~ ~ t e g ~security and
                                                           t ~           ~ ~               t y ,


                  Gal source of livelihoodfor a significant p r o p o ~ ~ofnGhana's population.
                                                                            o
                  t the plannedroute o f the pipeline avoids sensitive fisheries ecosystems, the
project sponsors should eo       it itselfto undertake assessmentso f th        peline's impacts on
fisheries and livelihoods         ingthe layingofthe pipeline andpe             ca!?y t     ~    ~the ~    ~ o u
project's operation. It i s mt clear to what extent this wil&be a        ssed. Inpursuit of achieving its
core mandate of poverty alleviation, it will be of credit to the           ifit ensuresthat continuous
impact assessments such as these are done to ~ ~ d ~ rthe t a ~  s project's~     acts Q Q ~
                                                                                           livelihoods and
  e fisheries ecosystems agd so allow for any negative impacts to be
Simildy the project's c ~ ~ i ~to local consultation sho~ldexp
                                           i ~ e ~ t
inthe stretch ofthe country's coastline.      nly inthis way can there
consuItation process, p ~ ~ i cconsidering~thei migratory tendencies ~ffishermen. Focusing
                                       ~ ~ ~           y

YOUPS sincerely
f \




MH.The0
Director,


       ANNEX IV

SUPPLEMENTALMANAGEMENT
       RESPONSE


                                    roject -                      ar

I. . FolIowingtheJune1,2006~ a n ~ g eResponse       m ~ ~ t to the equest for ~ ~ ~ ~of e c t ~ o ~
                                 Pipeline Project, the        ction Panel visited
                                  ementto provide cl
                                   dTafi villages inNigeri
                                    duringits field visit, the
                                    sence of a brownish-gre
                                     their ability to catch fish, andthey beli
                                     ions inthe area.



                                 withthe affected fishermen to better understandthe

c     ~    ~   ~andtverbal.discussions betwee
                       ~    e    s    ~                               esentative from

(a) the fishing nets are not going deep enough intothe waters; and (b) the ~u~ge-~ike
materid i s catching ontheir fishingnets.

3.        WAPCQvisitedthe site on June 22,2006 inthe company ofthe community
represe~tat~veAjido, where they met withthe chief fisheman and several other local
                to
fishermen at Ajido. The fishermen statedthat since May 2006 they have beennoticing
some b r o ~ ~ s h - ~ sludge-like substanceontheir nets andthey have beenunable to
                        e e n
"reach the bott01p1."They have encountered this problemnot inthe open water, but r
inBadagry Lagoon, abrackish-water system betweenthemainlandaqdthe barrierisland.
WMGopurchased from the fishermen a sample usednet so that it could analyze the
substance. Duringthe meetings withthe affected fishermen, W M C oexplained the
process for HorizontalDirectionalDrilling(FIDE))for the lagooncrossing, using
illustrations, to show that the drilling occurs beneath the bottom of the lagoon and
beneath the seafloor out to 8 meters water depth.

4.        This meeting was followed by several other face-to-face meetings with the
affected fishermen (including the chief fisherman), further site visits to Ajido, the
physical sampling ofthe substance, and discussions among WAPCo's c o n s t ~ c t ~ o n
engineers andHealth?Safety, and Environmental(MSE) auditors. WAPCo's conclusion
i s that the brownish-green s;lbstance 3s a filamentous green alga, tentatively identifiedas
a species of Spirogyra. At one stage of its life cycle, Sphgyra can take on a brownish
color, which may explainwhy some fishermen describe the substance in their nets as
brown and others as green. WAPCo also notedthat there are municipal wastewater
discharges into the creeks, andthese are a likely source of nutrients that could cause an
accumulation o f algae inthe lagoon greater thmnormal. Giventhat the substance appears
to be piant material, that its locationis inthe lagoon anadnot the marine envir
that, according to WAPCO,the MDDprocess inthe areawas completed S ~ Q
W M C ohas concluded that the problemencountere bythe Ajido fis ing c o m ~ tisy
not related to the installationo fthe gas pipeline.

              staff have also reviewed the ~   ~   o grasvidedby WAP~
                                                         ~   a      ~          Q      ~




disturbance to this sensitive m a . The     work inthe LagosBeachshore approach
(454m) was completed        h4




e ~ v i ~ o ~ staff specialist from the Bank's Abuja office will visit the site to follow up
                e n ~ a ~
on the matter with the fishemen, local gove      nt( i ~ c ~ u its~environmentalunit),
                                                               ~    n g
andWAPCc,field stafto enswethat this matter is ~ ~ p ~ o ~referred~toetheyNigerian
                                                                    ~ a         l
enviromental authorities. ~ ~ ~ a gwill ~ e nthe~InspectionPanel. of the outceerne
                                           e advise
o fthese visits.




                                            2

             est Africa

                ~ o ~ ~ the June~ 1~2006 ~ ~ a ~ a ~Responsetot the equest for Inspectionof
                                 o w        'I  g               e ~ e n
               est African Gas Pipeline project, on June 14,2006, the Pan forwarded a letter from
Friends ofthe Earth-Ghana(FOE), dated June 9,2806. The letter raises concerns about
~ ~ n s u l ~ asafety and,adverse ~ ~ v e ~ ~ consequences for fishemen inGhana as a result ofthe
                 t ~ o ~ ~                         h o o d
~   ~    n   ~and~operation ofthe pipeline. and asks that FOEbe added to the inixial Request.This
                      ~       t   ~   o    n
is ~ ~ ~ a g e ~responseto the issues raised inthat June 9,2006 letter.
                     e n ~ ' 5
 Theseissues were raised by FOE ipa meetings withBank s t a ~ d ~ thenNovember 2004 ~~~~~~~a~
                                                                            ~   g
mission, as well as duripag              e 2005 supemvisionmission. Contin~~edconsultaliom meplanued
during ~ ~ ~ l e ~ e nant ~ t ~ o nmeal w @ l c ~ ~any      e snew ~ ~ ~ o r ~toabetter~manage these
                                                                                      t i     n
risks.

       1.FOEstatesthat whilethe imp~r$ance ~ c o n s ~ ~wast recognized inthedesign ofthe
                                                     o               ~ ~ o n
Project, the issue ~ f ~ o ~ s u ~ wastnot handled ~ ~ e ~ ~ aintpractice. FOE states that Ghana's
                                        t a i o ~                       e i y
Energy ~ o ~ mhad raisedconcerns about the Project's long term
                             ~ s ~ ~ o ~                                        onornie benefit to Ghana.
FOEbelievesthat these concerns have notbeentaken into account int consultation process.
PG September 2004,     e s ~ a~ ? e n ~ u bform was
                                            l ~ c     held in Accra, spec@callyto disclosethe results of
the ecopasmih:analysis of the Project ~ ~ d ~allri ~ot e r~e s~t e ~ ~ ~~~ e n s ,~the lEnergy ~
                                                                         d       ~ e               ~     ~ u  ~
C o ~ ~ ~ ~ofs Ghana:an o ~ p ~ r t utongive,input, which the Bnergy ~ o ~ ~ ~didthrough its
                  s ~ o n                        i ~                                           s s ~ o n
~    ~   n    s    ~Rambdl. Bank st t a~~ ~~ n douac~roundof consu~tatio~sallfour countries in
                         l    ~     ~            o        ~ e ~                 ia
connection with appraisal to evakzaate FAPCo$.public p u r ~ i c ~ aprogram. Fiveformal
                                                                             t ~ o ~
meetings or W ~ ~ ~ us wellFmSother ~nform~lconsultationswere held in Ghanaby WAFGOand
                              ~ O
its consultants~ ~ r i n g p r e p a ~ofthei ~Ghanaenviron~ent~l social impact ~ssess~en~.la
                                             a t ~                    and
addition to the Nigeria co~ultat~onsdescribedin the ~ a n a g e ~ eResponse, the Project
                                                                           n t
Appralsul Document (FAD)details the consultationsheld in Ghana,Benin and Togo.

      2. FOEnotes that the EMidentifiedthe importance of an emergency response system, but is
concerned as to whether loca! people will be able to utilize and understand such a system inthe
case of an accident. FOEcites several instances of oil and gas relatedaccidents and doubts that
Ghana has the capacity to respondto such accidents.
Past accidents are qf concernto boththe Bank and              PCo. WAPCocompletedits system-wide
emergency responseplans iB Mq 2006: andtheseme now beingdisclosed. WAPCowill hold open
public meetings withall co~munitiesaffected by the Project to discussproposedsite-spec@c
responseplans and obtain c o ~ mfeedback. Them i npwpose of these meetings is to ensure
                                                ~ ~ a ~ ~
that the responseplans arepractical andfilb understoodby ~Q~mun~ties,and to clearly define
the acttom to be taken by allparties - WAPCo,local andtiasiond authorities, and community
members- in the event ofan uccident. Theexpertpanelwill review theplans during itsfirst
mission and will advise Government,the Bank,md FABCoconcerningtheir adequacy. (SeeJune
1,2036Management Response,p a r ~ ~ a57)h          p

Item3. While FOErecognizes that the plannedroute ofthe pipeline does not pass sensitive
fisheries ecosystems, it believes that the Project sponsors should assess the pipeline's impacts on
fisheries and livelihoods and that the Bank should ensure that continued impact assessments are
conductedto avoid any negative Project impacts on livelihoods andthe fisheries ecosystem. Local
consultations should include all c o r n ~ along ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ s
                                                      ~ ~the coastline given the migrato~y~ a t ~of thes
                                                                                                       e ~
fishermen.
It was not cost-efect ive to comuktwith every ~~ass&i-ilco.r7rmunity;ip?~t~~d,   co~~~ltationswere held
in ~ ~ j o r ~ s ~ce~ters,withafocus on coastalc~~munitiesin the vicini@o
                   ~ i p a g                                                             ~     p la~~~fal~s. ~
                                                                                                    ~  ~  ~    n ~
~ ~ ~ ~ ~and~other rep~~se~tatives~nf teh ~ ~~&s o
                             s ~ @ ~ i                            h ~ n~ ~~ ~~~i ~~ tii e& s~inathesed
                                                                                                 t e


