                           ReportNo. 38868
                                      \

The InspectionPanel         e
   Report and Recommendation




 GHANA: West African Gas Pipeline
           Project
   (IDA Guarantee No. B-006-0-GH)


          March 1,2007


                                      The InspectionPanel


                    FinalEligibilityReportand Recommendation
                                                  on
                                     Requestfor Inspection




                                Re: Request for Inspection
                   GHANA: West African Gas Pipeline Project
                             (IDA Guarantee No. B-006-0-GH)
                            InspectionPanelRecommendation



      1. On April 27, 2006, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection
           related to the West African Gas Pipeline Project'. The Request was submitted
           by the Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum of the West African Gas Pipeline
           Project (the "Association") through their representatives from the Olorunda
           Local Government Area o f Lagos State, Nigeria. The Request was submitted on
           behalf of the members o f the Association, which i s composed o f 12
           communities that will be affected by the Project around the Badagry axis2, in
           Lagos State, southwest Nigeria.

      2. On June 6,2006, Management submitted its responseto the Req~est.~

      3. A Panel team visited Nigeria and Ghana from June 4-10, 2006, to determine the
           eligibility o f the Request for Inspection. During the Panel's visit, some
           Requesters raised a new concern related to pollution o f their fishing grounds in
           the Badagry area.4

      4. On June 9, 2006, during its eligibility visit to Ghana, the Panel received a letter
           from Friends o f the EarthGhana ("FOE-GH'), inwhich it expressed its support
           for the Request submitted by the Association and asked to be added to the
           Request for Inspection(the "FOE-GHsubmission").

'Hereinafter referred to either as "WAGP" or "the Project". Document Number o f the Notice o f
Registration is INSP/SecM20006-0003.
'Hereinafter  also referedto as "Badagry area".
 Bank Management Responseto Requestfor InspectionPanel ofthe Ghana: West African Gas Pipeline
Project (IDA GuaranteeNo. B-006-O-Gh), June 6,2006, [hereinafter "Management Response"].
INSP/R2006-0004, dated July 18,2006.
 The new concerns will be discussedinmore detail below in Section C ofthis report.


                                                    1

       5. On June 14, 2006, the Inspection Panel notified the Regional Vice-president of
           the new concerns about fishing activities raised with the Panel during the
           Panel's visit to Nigeria and the FOE-GHletter. The Panel added both items to
           the processing of the existing Request. Management provided the Panel with a
           supplemental response regarding the issues raised in the later letter from FoE-
           GH ("Supplemental Re~ponse")~.Management also provided the Panel with
           "Clarijkations Regarding Marine Pollutionyy6 response to the issue raised by
                                                                in
           the Requestersduring the Panelvisit inJune 2006.

       6. On July 7, 2006, the Panel submitted its Report and Recommendation7to the
           Executive Directors and at that time refrained from making a recommendation
           on whether an investigation i s warranted for the reasons explained later in this
           Report. The Panel stated in its Report and Recommendationthat it expectedto
           be able to make a determination by the end of the year 2006 as to whether an
           investigation would be merited. This would also give a further chance to
           Management to demonstrate that it was taking "adequate steps to follow the
           Bank's policies andprocedures" as requiredby the Resolution that established
           the Panel.

       7. The Board approved the Panel recommendation on July 27, 2006, on a non-
           objection basis.

       8. The present report contains the Panel's final recommendation on whether an
           investigationof the issues of concernraisedby the Requesters is warranted.


     A. The Project

       9. The Project aims to contribute to, inter alia, "improving the competitiveness of
           the energy sectors in Ghana, Benin, and Togo by promoting the use of cheaper
           and environmentally cleaner gas fiom Nigeria in lieu of solid and liquidfuels
          for power generation and other industrial, commercial uses, and diversijjdng
           energy supply sourcesyy

       10.According to the PAD, the Project includes the following elements: (1) a new
           pipeline system, the West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP), which will transport
           natural gas from Nigeria to Ghana, Togo and'Benin;(2) spurs to provide gas to
           power generating units in Ghana, Benin, and Togo; (3) conversion of existing


  Submittedto the Panelon June 30,2006.
6
'*Paragraph
 Hereinafter "Management Clarifications", datedJune 30,2006.
 INSP/R2006-0004, dated July 18,2006.
            13 of the ResolutionNo. IBRD93-10 of September22, 1993 (hereinafter "the Resolution").
 Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a Proposed IDA Partial Risk Guaranteeinthe Amount ofUS$50
Million for Ghanaand a Proposed MIGA Guarantee inthe Amount of US$75 Million for SponsorsEquity
to the West African Gas Pipeline Project, November 2,2004, p. 10.


                                                   2

           power generating units to gas; and (4) as needed, additional compression
           investments.lo

       11. Under the Project, gas will be delivered from Nigeria via a 678 kilometer
           pipeline across southwestern Nigeria to a terminal point in Takoradi, Ghana.
           Fifty-eight kilometers of pipeline and other ancillary facilities are to be
           constructed by WAPCo in southwestern Nigeria.' InNigeria, the pipeline will
                                                                    '
           be constructed on the lands of 23 communities, including the 12 communities
           making this Request. The Project is implemented by the special purpose
           company WAPCO.'~

    B. Financing

       12. The entire Project i s estimated to cost about US$ 590 mi1li0n.l~ The
           InternationalDevelopmentAssociation (IDA)14has provided a guarantee, inthe
           amount o f US$ 50 million, for certain obligations of the Republic o f Ghana
           related to the purchase o f natural gas. The guarantee was approved on
           November 23, 2004, and the Guarantee Agreement became effective on
           December 31, 2004. Also, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
           (MIGA) has provided a US$75 million political risk guarantee to WAPCo in
           relationto the construction o fthe pipeline and associated fa~i1ities.l~

    C. The Request

       13. The Requesters claimedthat the Project would cause irreparable damage to their
           landand destroy the livelihoods of their communities.16 More specifically, they


loPAD,p. 11-12.
I' WAPCo's participation in the project is provided in the WAPCo Shareholder Agreement of May 19,
2003, entered into by WAPCo, Chevron Texaco West Africa Gas Pipeline Company Ltd., Nigerian
NationalPower Corporation, ShellOverseasHoldingsLimited andTakoradiPowerCompany Limited.The
development, financing, construction, ownership, operation and maintenance o f the Project was agreedin
an International Project Agreement dated May 22, 2003, between the Republic of Benin, the Federal
Republic ofNigeria,the Republic of Togo, the Republic of Ghana, and WAPCo. The InternationalProject
Agreement was negotiatedpursuantto Article VI1of the Treaty on the West African Gas Pipeline Project
betweenthe Republic of Benin, the Republic of Ghana, the FederalRepublic ofNigeria, andthe Republic
of Togo, signedon January 31,2003.
l2Current shareholdersof WAPCo includeShell, Chevron,NigerianNational PetroleumCorporation
(NNPC). Volta RiverAuthority (VRA) of Ghana, BenGazofBenin, and SotoGazof Togo.
l3PADp. 13. ManagementResponse(p. 4 7 13)states that the sponsors currentlyestimatethe construction
costs ofthe pipeline, excludingother WAPCo costs, to be about US$495million.
I4
 IDA is alsoreferredto as the "Bank".
l5WAPCo is also the beneficiary ofsimilar insurancestructures from Zurich(withreinsurance from OPIC)
to backthe paymentobligations ofthe Governmentso f Ghana, Togo andBenin.ManagementResponse,
713. IDA has entered into ProjectAgreements with WAPCo andN-GasLimited, respectivelythat contain
several covenants,representationsandwarrantiesthat bothWAPCo andN-Gas"have actedandwill
continue to act in compliancewith applicable WorldBank Environmental andSocial Safeguard Policies
and anti-corruptionpolicies." PAD, p. 9. BothProjectAgreementswere signedon December 15,2004.
l6The Requestersstatethat the Bank didnot comply with a numberof its policiesandprocedures,
includingOPBP 4.12 on InvoluntaryResettlement,OPBP 4.01 on EnvironmentalAssessment, OP/BP


                                                  3

          believedthat the scope o f the EA was too narrow because it did not include the
          existing Escravos-Lagos Pipeline ("ELPS")            to which the West African Gas
          Pipelinewill be linked.

      14. The fishermen among the Requesters in Nigeria expressed concern about the
          environmental impact o f the Project on their fishing grounds. They claimed that
          the construction ofthe gas pipeline pollutedthe water anddamaged their nets so
          that they were no longer able to catch fish inthe area. They indicated that this
          was an especially serious concern because many people in the area depended
          upon fisheries for a livelihood.

      15. The Requesters in Ghana also stressed that fishing is essential to their
          livelihoods and that continued impact assessments should have been conducted
          to avoid any negative Project impacts on livelihoods and the fisheries
          ecosystem. Considering the migratory tendencies of fishermen, the Requesters
          claimed that local consultations should have included all communities along the
          coastline. They also raisedconcerns about safety issues.

      16. With regard to involuntary resettlement, the Requesters assertedthat the Project
          provides inadequate compensation for people who have or will loose land, trees
          and/or other assets, including future income streams, and expressed their
          concern regarding the compensation rates and valuation methods. They also
          asserted a lack of mechanisms to secure long-term employment for affected
          membersoftheir communities.

      17. With regard to information and consultation, the Requesters claimed that the
          disclosure o f relevant information, such as the EA and RAP, had been
          inadequate andthat consultations hadbeenlimited.

      18. The Requesters also questioned the economic evaluation o f the Project and
          believed that it was based, inter alia, on the incorrect assumption that it will
          reduce the flaring o f associated gas inNigeria. According to them the assertion
          that associated gas (which would otherwise be flared) would be the source for
          the pipeline is false.

      19. Moreover, the Requesters claim that Management has failed to comply with the
          Bank's policies on supervision.

   D.ManagementResponse

      20. On June 6, 2006, Management submitted its Response to the Request.
          Management believed that it had made significant efforts to apply its policies
          and procedures and believed that the Project meets Bank safeguards

10.04 on Economic Evaluationof Investment Operations, andOPBP 13.05 onProjectSupervision. The
Requestfor Inspection is summarizedextensivelyinthe Panel's first Report andRecommendation,
INSPR2006-0004,datedJuly 18,2006.


                                                4

        requirements. Management recognized, however, that further work will be
        neededon safeguardssupervision.l7

    21. Regarding the Requesters' claims concerning the EA, Management stated that
        the Project would not cause major impacts in Nigeria and that the EA did not
        include the ELPS, because it was not part of the Project's area of influence. It
        cited an ELPS Integrity Study, which describedthe ELPS pipeline as being in
        good condition overall and having sufficient capacity to operate under the
        Project. Regardingsafety issues, Management assertedthat WAPCo has issued
        a system-wide Emergency Response Plan, and intends to prepare site-specific
        responseplans.

    22. Regarding the Requesters' concerns about the amount of compensation,
        Management indicated that it would ensure that the principle of "replacement
        value" would be applied for land and assets. Additionally, Management
        mentioned several employment activities that would benefitpeople living inthe
        Project area, such as temporary employment of local residents and permanent
        employment for amuchsmaller group ofresidents.

    23. Regarding the issue of gas flaring, Management indicated that while flaring
        reductions are not an explicit objective inthe PAD, the Project would "make a
        modest contribution to flaring reduction.    "'* According to Management, the
        annual volume of associatedgas i s one of the Project's monitoringindicators.

    24. Management claimed that frequent and extensive consultations had been held
        regarding the EA and the RAP, and the issue of compensation. However, it
        acknowledgedthat disclosureofinformationstill neededto beimproved.

    25. Management believed that the Project had been supervised well, but
        acknowledgedthat a fieldmissionwas overdue.

    26. With regardto the problem of water pollutionand the alleged loss of fisheries
        raised during the Panel's June 2006 visit, Management providedthe Panel with
        "Clarijkations Regarding Marine Pollution," in which it indicatedthat it had
        sought cooperation with WAPCo and would pursue a preliminary investigation
        into the matter. However, Management deemed it unlikely that the problems
        were relatedto the Project.

    27. In Response to the FOE-GHRequesters' concerns regarding possible negative
        impacts on livelihoods and fisheries, Management submitted a Supplemental
        Response in which it claimed that the environmentalmonitoring plan included
        the assessment of these impacts. In addition, Management stated that WAPCo
        would stay engagedwith Project-affectedcommunities for severalyears.



'*ManagementResponse,
l7
 Management'sResponse is summarizedinmoredetail inthe Panel's first ReportandRecommendation.
                     7 43.

                                          5

    PlannedAction by Management

      28. In order to address the issues raised by the Requesters, Management Response
          proposed several actions, such as the facilitation o f community development
          programs, additional disclosure o f information and enhancement o f supervision.
           Management also stated that an expert panel to review the Project's
           environmental and social issues would be appointed and make a first field visit
          by the endof September2006.

      29. Management also asserted that it would assess the adequacy o f compensation
          rates and verify whether the grievance redress process had been effective in
          correcting problems. Additionally, Management claimed that before September
           30, 2006, WAPCo would conduct professional surveys based on field
          measurements and ratings to assess the current values o f each type o f lost asset.
          Management confirmed that this would be guided by the definition o f
          "replacement value", as required by OP 4.12. Further, it stated that the Bank
          would review the cases cited in the Request. Management said that a
          resettlement audit, planned for September 2006, would review the adequacy o f
          compensation to replace lost assets andthe status o f income restoration.

      30. Moreover, Management expected that system wide emergency response plans
          would be disclosed inJune 2006 andthat detailed site plans would be developed
          anddiscussed with local communities.

    E.Eligibilityofthe Requestfor Inspection

      31. The Panel reviewed the Request and Management Response, the Supplemental
          Response, and Management Clarifications. A Panel team visited Nigeria and
          Ghana from June 4-10, 2006. During the visit the Panel team met with the
          signatories o f the Request for Inspection and with other affected people in
          Ajido, Badagry and Lagos, with national government officials, and with Bank
          Management in Abuja. In Accra, Ghana, the Panel met with officials from
          WAPCo, Bank Management, and experts.

      32. The Panel determined in its Report and Recommendation, dated July 7, 2006",
          that the Request satisfied the eligibility criteria for an Inspection, as set forth in
          the 1993 Resolution establishing the Panel2' and the 1999 Clarifications21,
          However, due to the special circumstances described below, the Panel
          recommended to defer a decision on whether to recommendan investigation.

      33. The Panel, in its Report and Recommendation, noted that the Requesters with
          whom the Panel met during its eligibility visit indicated that that they did not


l9INSP/R2006-0004, dated July 18,2006.
2oResolution No. IBRD93-10 of September 22, 1993 (hereinafter "the Resolution")
  The 1999 Clarifications to the Resolution (hereinafter "the 1999 Clarifications") are contained inthe
"Conclusions o f the Board's SecondReview o fthe Inspection Panel", datedApril 20,1999.


                                                     6

          want to press for an investigation at that time but rather await further
          developments and Bank actions regarding their concerns.

      34. Management Response described actions that appeared to address the concerns
          of the Requesters, and Management affirmed that concrete actions would take
          place soon. Management's Supplemental Response to the concerns raised by
          FOE-GH and Management's Clarifications regarding the environmental
          pollution and fisheries issues also suggested that Management was ready to take
          responsive action.

      35. Inlight of the foregoing, the Panel refrained from making a recommendation on
          whether an investigationwas warranted, in order to provide the opportunity for
          the issues of concern to be resolved. The Panel stated in its Report and
          Recommendation that it expected to be able to make a determination by the end
          of the year 2006 as to whether an investigation would be merited. This gave a
          further chance to Management to demonstrate that itwas taking "adequate steps
          tofollow the Bank'spolicies andprocedures" as required by the Resolutionthat
          established the Panel. 22

      36. The Board approved the Panel recommendation on July 27, 2006, on a non-
          objectionbasis.

   F. RecentDevelopments

      37. Inorder to ascertain the need for an investigation, the Panel followed up on the
          status o f the Requesters' concerns and the status o f Management's progress in
          addressing them.

      38. According to Paragraph 13 of the Resolution "[tlhe Panel shall satisjj itself
          before a requestfor inspection is heard that the subject matter of the request
          has been dealt with by the Management of the Bank and Management hasfailed
          to demonstrate that it hasfollowed, or is taking adequate steps tofollow Bank's
         policies andprocedures."

      39. On November 8, 2006, the Requesters sent a letter to Management, which they
         copied to the Panel, inwhich they asked for clarifications on various unresolved
          issues and requested an update on certain actions envisaged in Management's
         Response. On November 14, 2006, the Panel requested a meeting with Bank
          staff and consultants responsible for the Project and received a useful briefing
         on Project implementation. The Panel subsequently asked Management to
         elaborate on certain issues related to the Requesters' concerns. Management did
         not adequately address specific aspects o f this request for information.




22Paragraph 13 of the Resolution.


                                              7

      40. On December 19,2006, the Panelreceived an e-mail from the representative of
           the Requesters stating that "[wle are in theprocess of writing a report on the
           issues listed in the Action Plan put forward by World Bank's management,
           whether they were implementedand how they were able to address the concerns
           of the communities. The environmental scientist called to study the impact of the
           drilling onfisheries is yet to conclude work and consultations are still ongoing
           to determine the next step to take by the communities." The e-mail added that
           "[wle expect to conclude consultation (sic) around the second week in January
           2007."

      41. On December 27,2006 the Panel informed Management that, "in the interest of
          giving Management and the Requesters afurther opportunity tofind satisfaction
           and common grounds on the issues still raised, the Panel expects tofinalize its
          Report and send it to the Board in February 2007."

      42. From January 24-30, 2007, Panel Member Werner Kiene, together with
           Assistant Executive Secretary Anna Sophie Herken and Panel Operations
           Officer Serge Selwan made a follow-up field visit to Nigeria to observe first-
          hand developments relating to the Requester's concerns and Management's
           actions before making its recommendation. The Panel met with the Requesters
           and several hundred other affected people in Lagos and Ajido, with WAPCo
           officials inLagos, and with Bank staff inAbuja.

      43. During this visit, a group o f persons from the Escravos area o f Western Niger
           Delta submitted a letter to the Panel and expressed their support for the Request
           o f the Association and asked that their names be added to it.23On February 13,
           2007, the Panel informed Management o f the letter andrequestedcomments. As
           o f the date o f this Report, Management has not responded to the letter, although
          the Panelhas beeninformedthat comments will beforthcoming. Since the letter
          raises similar issues to the initial Request, the Panel is adding the signatories to
          the initial Request.

      44. In Nigeria, the Panel had a constructive meeting with WAPCo officials who
          provided updated information and agreed to finish to the Bank updated data
          about different aspects o f Management's Response. They noted, however, that
          they had not been adequately informed by Bank Management regarding the
          content o f the Management's Response and the extent to which it required
          actions on their part. The Panel would like to thank WAPCo officials for the
          meeting, and for their constructive approach.

      45. During its follow-up field visit, and especially during its meetings with the
          Requesters, the Panel also observed that there seemed to be a lack of
          information regarding the compensation issues raised in the Request for

23Letter datedJanuary 12,2007, signedby Isaiah Ogah, President CommunityJustice Forum, on behaIfo f
the communities Okpele-Ama, Sarabubowei, Benikrukm,Ikododiagbene Okerenkoko, Oporoza, Kurutie,
Azama, EgwaandKunukunuma.


                                                 8

          Inspection and apparent disagreement regarding the situation o f the fishermen
          and the cause o f pollution. The Requesters provided the Panelteam with a copy
          of a study called "A report on the disruption offishing efforts in the coastal
         waters of the Nigerian Host Communities of the West African Gas Pipeline
          (WAGP) Project"24 which differs from Management's representation to the
         Panel.

     46. The Panel also noted that the affected people repeatedly stated that their
          situation had remained the same in the past six months. They seemed not to
         have been informed or consulted about actions set forth in Management's
         Response.

     47. The Panel was unable on the ground to confirm progress on the actions
         proposed by Management to address the Requesters' concerns. The Panel noted
         that Management does not seem to be following the timetable described in the
         Management's Response. As an example, the expert Panel that was to be
         appointed and make its first field visit by the end o f September 2006 had still
         not been set-up by the time o f the Panel's follow-up visit in January 2007. The
         Panel also has questions about the adequacy o f supervisionand communication.

     48. The Panel notes the economic importance o f this infrastructure Project to the
         region, the important role o f the private sector, and the volatile situation inparts
         of the Project area. The Panel observes that in such circumstances it is
         especially important to determine Bank compliance with its policies and
         procedures, and thus to facilitate the achievement o f the objectives o f the
         Project and Bank policies.

    G. Conclusions

     49. The Panel finds conflicting assertions o f the Requesters and Management about
         the interpretation of issues, facts and the compliance with Bank policies and
         procedures. During its follow-up visit to Nigeria in January 2007, the Panel
         noted disagreement regarding some major issues, such as the cause o f pollution
         o f the lagoon and alleged damage to fisheries, serious concerns regarding the
         valuation o f assets and procedures for compensation, and a lack o f information
         regardingthe implementationof the Project. As stated inthe original Eligibility
         Report, the Request and the Requesters meet the eligibility criteria set forth in
         the Resolutionthat established the InspectionPanel andthe 1999 Clarifications.

     50. The Panel believes that these important questions regardingthe Bank's alleged
         failure to comply with its own policies and procedures and possible harmto the
         Requesters can only be addressed inthe context o f a Panelinvestigation.



24Preparedby Tayo Akeem Yusuffor Friendsofthe Earth/EnvironmentalRights Action(ERA), Nigeria,
datedJanuary 2007.


                                              9

51. In light o f the foregoing and the facts related to the matters of concern to the
   Requesters, the Panel recommends to the Board of Executive Directors that an
   investigationbe conducted.




                                       10

