                                                                                              36075

INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                       1818HStreet,N.W.        Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                         Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                         U.S.A.                   Email: ipanel@worldbank.org



     Edith Brown Weiss
     Chairperson

                                                                            IPNREQUEST RQ06/03

                                                                            May 2,2006


         MEMORANDUMTO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES OF THE
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                   SUBJECT: Requestfor Inspection
                             GHANA: West African Gas PipelineProject
                                   (IDA GuaranteeNo. B-006-0-GH)


             Please be advised that on April 27, 2006, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a
     Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-mentioned Project. The Panel
     registered the Request for Inspection inthe Panel's Register on May 2, 2006, as provided in
     paragraph 17 o f the Panel's Operating Procedures. It also delivered a copy o f the Request to
     the President of IDA pursuant to paragraph 17 of the IDA Resolution that established the
     Panel. Enclosed for your informationare:

             (1) a copy ofthe Notice of Registration; and
             (2) a copy o fthe transmittal Memorandum to the President.




     Enclosures


INTERNATIONALBANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                             1818 H Street, N.W.      Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                                Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                                USA.                     Email:ipanel@worldbank.org




           IPNREQUESTRQ06/03


                                                                                              May 2,2006




                                   NOTICE OFREGISTRATION

                                       Re:Requestfor Inspection
                           GHANA:West African Gas PipelineProject
                                     (IDA GuaranteNo. B-006-0-GH)


              On April 27, 2006, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
     Inspection (the "Request"), dated the same day, related to the Ghana: West African Gas
     Pipeline Project (the "Project"). The Request was submitted by the Ifesowapo Host
     Communities Forum o f the West African Gas Pipeline Project (the "Association") through
     their representatives fkom the Olorunda Local Government Area o f Lagos State, Nigeria.
     The Request was submitted on behalf o f the members of the Association, which is
     composed o f 12 communities that will be affected by the Project around the Badagry axis,
     in Lagos State, South-West Nigeria. These communities are Ajido, Imeke Agemowo,
     Araromi Ale, Idaghe Iyesi, Ilogbo Eremi and Igbesa, Okoomi, Itori, OloydAbiola,
     Arobieye, Igboliye andEgushi Benja. The Request includes four Annexes, among them 44
     signatures o f people from different affected communities and two letters o f consent from
     families who support the Request.

              The West African Gas Pipeline Project aims to deliver gas from Nigeria via an
     approximately 680 kilometer pipeline across south western Nigerian to a terminal point at
     Takoradi, Ghana. Fifty-eight kilometers o f pipeline and other ancillary facilities to be
     constructed by the West African Gas Pipeline Company (WAPCo) in south western
     Nigeria would pass through andbe placed on the lands of 23 communities with an overall
     population o f 140,000, including the 12 communities making this Request.'                           The
     development, financing, construction, ownership, operation andmaintenance o f the Project

     1 WAPCo's participationinthe project i s provided inthe WAPCo Shareholder Agreement o fM a y 19,2003,
     entered into by WAPCo, Chevron Texaco West Africa Gas Pipeline Company Ltd., NigerianNational
     Power Corporation, Shell Overseas Holdings Limited and Takoradi Power Company Limited.




                                                                                                               1

 was agreed in an International Project Agreement dated May 22, 2003, between the
 Republic o f Benin, the Federal Republic o f Nigeria, the Republic o f Togo, the Republic o f
 Ghana, and the West African Gas Pipeline Company Limited.2

          According to the Request, the Project i s designed to substitute natural gas from
 Nigeria for alternative fuels used in the power, industrial, miningand commercial sectors
 inthe Republics o fGhana, BeninandTogo, andto promoteregionalintegration insupport
 o f economic growth. The entire Project i s estimated to cost about US$590 million. The
 InternationalDevelopment Association (IDA)3,has provided a guarantee, inthe amount o f
 US$50million, for certainobligations o fthe Republic o f Ghana relatedto the purchase o f
 natural gas. Also, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) has provided a
 US$75 million political risk guarantee to WAPCo in relation to the construction o f the
pipelineand associatedfacilities.

          The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) states that "the World Bank Group
participation (IDA and MIGA) willprovidefinancial risk mitigation to allow theproposed
Project to proceed, support the implementation of regional and national frameworks and
actions required to kick start the development of gas markets in Ghana, Benin, and Togo,
and more broadly will provide comfort to all the stakeholders regarding Project
preparation and implementation standards."                For these purposes IDA has entered into
Project Agreements with WAPCo and N-Gas, respectively, that contain several covenants,
representations andwarranties that both WAPCo andN-Gas "have acted and will continue
to act in compliance with applicable World Bank Environmental and Social Safeguard
Policies and anti-corruption policies."

         The Requesters believe that the Project, as it now stands, will cause irreparable
damage to their land and destroy the livelihoods o f their communities. They state that the
Bank didnot comply with a numbero f its policies andprocedures, such as OPBP 4.12. on
Involuntary Resettlement, OPBP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, OPBP 10.04 on
Economic Evaluation o f InvestmentOperations and OPBP 13-05onProject Supervision.

         According to the Requesters, the Bank failed to follow its policies and procedures
inthe preparation of the Environmental Impact Assessment (ccEIA'y).                   They state that the
overwhelming majority o f their people were not consulted during the preparation o f the
EIA. The Requesters claim that though the West African Gas Pipeline Company holds
periodic meetings with the landowners on the issue on compensation, manyo f the affected
people in their communities are excluded because they are not considered landowners. In
the Requester's opinion, equal consideration should be paid to non-land owners because
the pipeline passes the area in which they live, where their children go to school, where
women walk to their work at the farms and where their fishing grounds are. In the
Requesters' view, this makes the non-landowners "stakeholders" who should be included
inconsultations.

'The  International Project Agreement was negotiated pursuant to Article VI1o fthe Treaty on the West
African Gas Pipeline Project between the Republic o f Benin, the Republic o f Ghana, the Federal Republic of
Nigeria, and the Republic o f Togo, signed on January 31,2003.
 IDA is also referred to as the "Bank".
 Project Appraisal Document (PAD), para.3 pg. 6
 PAD, para B 1.pg. 9. Both Project Agreements were signedonDecember 15,2004.



                                                                                                            2

         The Requesters also claim that they didnot have access to the EIA. They indicate
 that when they visitedthe Badagry and Olorunda local council secretariats inJanuary 2004
 to comment on the EIA, the EIA was not available. They understand that the EIA is now
 available on the internet, but - given the volume o f the document, the lack o f internet
 access in their area and the low literacy level in their community - question that their
 communities will be able to access and understand the EIA. The Requesters add that it
 would have been important to publish extracts from the relevant documents inYoruba, the
 language o f their communities. They state that until today, a translation o f the
 Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) into Yoruba does not exist, although land acquisition has
 beencompleted.

         With regard to the scope of the EIA, the Requesters are concerned that an EL4has
 not been carried out for the existing Escravos-Lagos Pipeline to which the West African
 Gas Pipeline will be linked. They consider the Excravos-Lagos Pipeline to be unsafe
 because of its history o f poor maintenance and accidents. They are worried that the
 Escravos-Lagos Pipeline "will source the WAGP pipeline."           Because o f that link, the
 Requesters believe that an EIA for the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline i s necessary to determine
 the Project's environmental impacts. The Requesters fear that "the unsafe state of the
 Escravos-Lagos Pipeline implies a serious danger for the safety of the West African Gas
 Pipeline and all who live in its proximity.   "  They refer to gas explosions and leaks with
 fatal consequences that happened inother areas o f Nigeria, particularly inthe Niger Delta.
 They state that they "have been told that there is an emergency response and contingency
plan to minimize impacts of disasters, but we are totally unaware of its content or
 adequacy. "

         The Requesters also claim that the Bank has not complied with its policy on
resettlement (OPBP 4.12). They express their fears and concerns about the Project's
impact on their livelihoods and inadequate compensation, and state that they "are
 convinced that it [the Project] will not restore or improve our standards of living."

        The Requesters are especially concerned about the amount o f compensation paid to
them for the plots of landacquired for the Project. According to the Requesters, members
o f their communities were assured that "'adequate compensation ' would be paid on the
basis of rates established by the Nigerian government and that these rates would be
further increased to reflect inflation adjustment and restoration of lost incomes." They
state that, in hindsight, this assurance provided "precious little information on the exact
amount of compensation that should be paid to them for each plot o f landacquired under
                           'I
the Project. They believe that the project sponsors kept them "in the dark" about relevant
information about compensation. They further claim that "[tJhere were assurancesfrom
project sponsors that the rates for lease of land in our communities set by the Nigerian
government would not be used in computing the quantum of compensation to bepaid. But
to our surprise, when the compensations were eventually paid, the rates were in most
cases less than 4% of the market rate."

        The Requesters indicate that there were no "binding contractual relations between
individual landowners and WAPCO" and that the payment of compensation was left to the
discretion o f the Project sponsors. They claim that this resulted in compensation only for



                                                                                             3

 the actual crops on the affected land, and none for the land or loss o f future profits from
 their activities on the land.

         As regards consultation and disclosure, the Requesters claim that not all
 stakeholders had access to Project information and that the information that was provided
 was not understood by members o f the communities. They state that "[uJntil the day some
 of us collected our compensation, we had no idea of the criteria usedfor computing the
 compensations.   "   The Requesters believe that this lack of disclosure o f relevant
 informationwas deliberate to get community support for the Project.

         Moreover, the Requesters state that the "little consultation that was carried out
                                                                      "
  "is a recipefor crisis and violence in our communities. They claim that the "community
                                                          "
 members have yet to resolve the bitterness and bickering that was the hall mark of the
selective consultations which tookplace with afew landowners, while other land users and
 impactedpersons were ignored. The Requesters believethat the "sponsors" o f the Project
                                  "
 deliberately tried to cause tensions as part o f a strategy to divide the community. They
refer to cases inwhich landowners and land users were unable to agree over who should be
 eligible to receive and keep compensation. The Requesters indicate that the Project has
also caused serious social conflicts within families. The Requesters attribute this to the
insufficient level o f information about compensation, including the amount o f
compensation paid.

         The Requesters also question the economic evaluation o f the Project and believe
that it will not promote the "holistic development in our community and even in our
country as it is premised on the false assumption that it will reduce the flaring of
associated gas in Nigeria." They cite Bank estimates, according to which flaring gas, as
opposed to capturing gas, costs Nigeria about US$ 2.5 billion per year. They add that
flaring contributes to the destruction o f the lands and rivers, to serious health problems,
and to great environmental harm.

         The Requesters note that while the Project proponents claim associated gas (which
i s normally being flared) will be the source for the pipeline, they have requested
information that would show this i s the case. They claim that the fields in the Western
Niger Delta where the gas for the Project will be sourced "are generally non-associated
gas fields. This means additional gas would be drilled instead." The Requesters claim
that the Project design does not demonstrate that any amount o f associated gas would run
through the pipeline. Thus, the Requesters deem it "inappropriate" for the Bank to support
the Project, because it would allow the Project sponsors to "continue the unwarranted
degradation of our environment and livelihoods."

         In this respect, the Requesters believe that the Bank failed to consider Nigeria's
plans to double oil output by 2010, which according to the Requesters, will inevitably lead
to the production o f more associated gas. The Requesters claim that without assurance that
the Project will only use associated (otherwise flared) gas, rather than non-associated gas,
which i s cheaper to produce, the Bank will "set a precedent of looking solely at profit
margins, rather than the best development interest of thepeople of this country.''




                                                                                            4

         As to economic benefits to their communities, the Requesters assert that
 employment benefits would only be o f a temporary nature during construction work. The
 Requesters assert that they are not aware o f mechanisms that ensure that qualified persons
 o f the communities are trained to secure full-term employment, though they have
 submitted names of graduates from their communities in different fields, such as
 engineering.

        Based on the above mentioned concerns, the Requesters fear that they will not only
 lose their lands, which are their only means o f livelihoods, but they will also have no
 prospect o f alternative long-term employment, which will further impoverish the people o f
 their communities.

        Moreover, the Requesters claim that Management has failed to supervise
 adequately the preparation and implementationo f the Project.

        The Requesters assert that they have made several efforts to discuss the above-
mentioned issues with Management, inter alia, during visits o f the Bank to Nigeria in
 October 2004 and in June 2005. They claim that despite these approaches, the Bank has
remained inactive and failed to addresstheir concerns.

        The Requesters therefore request that the Panel recommend an investigation to the
Board o f ExecutiveDirectors.

        The above claims may constitute non-compliance by the Bank with various
provisionso fthe following operational Policies and Procedures:

    OPBP 4.01                          EnvironmentalAssessment
    OP/BP 4.12                         InvoluntaryResettlement
    OD 4.15                            PovertyReduction
    OP/ BP 10.04                       Economic Evaluationo f Investment Operations
    OD/OP/BP 13-05                     Project Supervision
    World BankPolicy on Disclosureo f Information


        All communications with the Requesters in connection with the Request will be
sent until fbrther notice to the addresses listed below.

        In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the
`Operating Procedures'), Iam notifying you that Ihave, on May 2, 2006, registered this
Request inthe InspectionPanel Register.

        Inaccordancewithparagraph 18ofthe IDAResolutionthat establishedthe Panel
(`Resolution'), paragraphs 2 and 8 o f the "Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of
the Inspection Panel" (the `1999 Clarifications'), and paragraph 18 (d) o f the Operating
Procedures, Bank Management must provide the Panel, no later than June 1, 2006, with
written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply, with the Bank's relevant
policies andprocedures inrelationto the above-referenced Project. The subject matter that




                                                                                           5

Management must deal with in a response to the Request i s set out inparagraphs 3 and 4
ofthe 1999 Clarifications.

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined inthe 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 [of the Resolution] and
shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should
be investigated."

        TheRequest hasbeenassignedIPNRequest NumberRQ06/3.


                                     Yours sincerely,




    Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum on the West African PipelineProject
    c/o BalogunAdinni Shopping Complex
    Imeke, Olorunda Local Council Development Area
    Badagry Local Government Area,
    Lagos State, Nigeria

    c/o Environmental RightsAction / Friendsofthe Earth-Nigeria
    10 IbaaStreet, O f fOkomoko Street, D-Line,
   Port Harcourt
   Nigeria

   Mr.PaulD.Wolfowitz
   President
   InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
   Room MC12-750

   The Executive Directors and Alternates
   InternationalDevelopmentAssociation




                                                                                            6

INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                       1818 H Street, N.W.      Telephone.(202) 458-5200
                                                          Washington, DC 20433     Fax (202) 522-0916
                                                                                   Emat ipanel@worldbankorg

EdithB r o w Weiss
Chairperson
                                                                      EPNREQkrEsTRQ06/03

                                                                         May 2,2006



                    MEMORANDUMTO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
                THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                    Requestfor Inspection
                        GHANA: West African GasPipelineProject
                             (IDA GuaranteeNo, B-006-0-GH)


        In accordance with paragraph 17 of IDA Resolution that established the Inspection
 Panel (the "Resolution") and paragraph 17 o f the Inspection Panel's Operating Procedures
 (the "Operating Procedures"), Ihereby notify you that on April 27, 2006, the Inspection
 Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-
 referencedProject.

        IhaveonMay2,2006,whichisalsothedateofthedispatchofthisnotice,registered
 the Request inthe InspectionPanel Register.Enclosed are:

        1. copy oftheNotice ofRegistration; and
        2. copy o fthe Request for Inspection

        In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
 ``Conclusions of   the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel" (the "1999
 Claiifications"), and paragraph 18 (d) o f the Operating Procedures, Bank Management i s
 hereby notified that it must provide the Panel, no later than June 1, 2006, with written
 evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and
 procedures inrelationto the gbove-referenced Projects, The subject matter the Management
 must deal with in a response to the Request is set out in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the 1999
 Clarifications.

      After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be
investigated."

      The Requesthas beenassignedIPNRequestNumberRQ06/03.




Enclosures:
      Request for Inspection
      Notice of Registration


TO: Mr.PaulWolfowitz
President
International Development Association
Room MC12-750

[By hand against confirmation]

cc:   The ExecutiveDirectors andAlternates
International Development Association




                                                2

