                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank
                          International Development Association


                                                                  Report No: ICR88918



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         Guarantee No. B-006-0-GH




                                          ON A


                             PARTIAL RISK GUARANTEE


                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50.00 MILLION


                                         TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                           FOR

                    THE WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT


                                       June 30, 2014




Energy Group
Sustainable Development Department
Africa Region, IDA
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            3.09 Ghana Cedi (GHC) = 1 US Dollar
                       (as of June 17, 2014)

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 – December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AG             Associated Gas
Agip           Nigerian Agip Oil Company Limited, a subsidiary of Eni S.p.A.
Bbl            Barrel
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDP            Community Development Projects
CEB            Communaute Electrique du Benin (Benin Electricity Company)
CNL            Chevron Nigeria Limited
COD            Commercial Operation Date
CRR            Community Relation Representatives
DPR            Department of Petroleum Resources (Nigeria)
EA             Environmental Assessment
ECOWAS         Economic Community of West African States
EFA            Economic and Financial Assessment
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
EIR            Extractive Industries Review
EIRR           Economic Internal Rate of Return
EITI           Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
Elf            Elf Petroleum Nigeria Limited, a subsidiary of TOTAL S.A.
ELPS           Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System
EMP            Environment Management Plan
EPC            Engineering, Procurement and Construction
ERP            Emergency Response Plans
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
ESAP           Environment and Social Advisory Panel
ESMP           Environmental and Social Management Plan
FGN            Federal Government of Nigeria
FID            Final Investment Decision
FIRR           Financial Internal Rate of Return
FMEnv          Federal Ministry of Environment (Nigeria)
FoE-Ghana      Friends of the Earth, Ghana
GCSA           Government Consent and Support Agreement
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GEPA           Ghana Environmental Protection Agency
GGFR           Global Gas Flaring Reduction Public-Private Partnership
GHGE           Green House Gas Emissions
GSA            Gas Sales Agreement

                                ii
GTA      Gas Transportation Agreement
GWh      Gigawatt-hour
HSE      Health, Safety, and Environment
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IITA     International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
IOC      International Oil Companies
IPA      International Project Agreement
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
JV       Joint Ventures
LBCS     Lagos Beach Compressor Station
LCO      Light Crude Oil
LNG      Liquefied Natural Gas
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP      Management Action Plan
MERF     Ministry of Environment and Forestry (Togo)
MIGA     Multilateral Investment and Guarantee Agency
MMBtu    Million British Thermal Units
Mmcf/d   Million Cubic Feet per Day
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MW       Megawatts
NAG      Non-associated gas
NEPAD    New Partnership for Africa’s Development
N-Gas    N-Gas Limited
NGC      Nigerian Gas Company
NGO      Non-Government Organization
NNNGO    Nigeria Network of NGOs
NNPC     Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
NPV      Net Present Value
O&M      Operating and Maintaining
OPIC     Overseas Private Investment Corporation
OPTS     Oil Producers Trade Section
PAP      Project Affected Persons
PDP      Project Development Plan
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PER      Project Evaluation Report
PRG      Partial Risk Guarantee
QAG      Quality at Entry
QSA      Quality at Supervision
R&M      Regulating and Metering
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RIAS     Regional Integration Assistance Strategy
RoR      Rate of Return
ROW      Right of Way
SPDC     Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited

                        iii
VRA        Volta River Authority
VTMS       Vessels Traffic Management System
WACC       Weighted Average Cost of Capital
WAGP       West African Gas Pipeline
WAGPA      West African Gas Pipeline Authority
WAPCo      West African Gas Pipeline Co.
WAPP       West African Power Market Development Project
Zurich     Steadfast Insurance Co., a subsidiary of Zurich Financial Services Group




               Vice President:      Makhtar Diop
            Regional Director:      Colin Bruce
            Country Director:       Yusupha Crookes
              Sector Manager:       Meike van Ginneken
         Project Team Leader:       Waqar Haider




                            iv
                                                                 AFRICA

                                          The West African Gas Pipeline Project


                                                             CONTENTS

Data Sheet ...................................................................................................................................... vi
A. Basic Information...................................................................................................................... vi
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................................. vi
C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................................... vi
D. Sector and Theme Codes.......................................................................................................... vii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................................. vii
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................... ix
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................................. ix
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 6
3.     Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 12
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 19
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 20
6.     Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 22
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 26
Annex 2. Project Outputs .............................................................................................................. 27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................. 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................. 35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................... 38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................... 39
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................... 40
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................... 42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................................... 43
Annex 10. MAP ............................................................................................................................ 47


                                                                         v
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
                                                                        West African Gas
Country:                Africa                Project Name:
                                                                        Pipeline Project
Project ID:           P082502                L/C/TF Number(s):
ICR Date:             June 25, 2014          ICR Type:              Core
Lending Instrument:   PRG                    Borrower/Guarantor:    Republic of Ghana
Original Total
                      USD 50.0 million       Disbursed Amount:      USD 0.00
Commitment:
Environmental Category: Category A
Implementing Agencies: West African Gas Pipeline Company (WAPCo)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: SPDC, CNL, NNPC, VRA, CEB

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process        Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:         08-07-2003   Effectiveness:       28-Feb-2007         31-Dec-2007
Appraisal:              06-16-2004   Restructuring(s):         -
Approval:              23-Nov-2004   Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:              12-31-2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:             Moderately Satisfactory
                        Moderately              Implementing            Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory          Agency/Agencies:        Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                             vi
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                                Indicators                               Rating
       Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                   Quality at Entry
                          No                                   Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                       (QEA):
Problem Project at any                      Quality of
                          No                                   Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                              Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                              50%
Oil and Gas                                                        50%
Sustainable Energy                                                                    100%

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Regional Integration                                              Primary             Primary

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                        Gobind Nankani
Country Director:          Yusupha B. Crookes                  Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:            Meike van Ginneken                  Yusupha B. Crookes
Project Team Leader:       Waqar Haider                        Michel Layec

F. Results Framework Analysis

The WAGP will contribute to: (a) improving the competitiveness of the energy sectors in Ghana,
Benin, and Togo by promoting the use of cheaper and environmentally cleaner gas from Nigeria in
lieu of solid and liquid fuels for power generation and other industrial and commercial uses, and by
diversifying energy supply sources, and (b) fostering regional economic and political integration
that would support economic growth, and in particular the development of the West Africa
electricity market.




                                                vii
KPIs :
         a. PDO Indicators:
Indicator Name                        Baseline                 Actual                    End Target
Indicator-1: Decrease in the average 0%                        Decrease of 14% in        Decrease of 10-20% in
wholesale cost of electricity supply                           Ghana; and 12% in         Ghana; and 40% in Benin
in Ghana, Benin, and Togo                                      Benin and Togo            and Togo
compared to the "without gas"
                                     02 May 2005               31 Dec 2013               31-Dec-2013
scenario (USD/kwh).
                                     Hydro at USD              Average wholesale cost    Cost of electricity
                                     0.01/kwh. LCO-fired       in Ghana estimated at     production in Ghana
                                     open-cycle gas turbine    USD 0.0773/kwh            reduced by 10-20%, and in
                                     cost at USD 0.28/kwh      reducing by 14% during    Togo and Benin by 40% in
                                     (2012 prices).            2011. Average wholesale   2008 as compared with the
                                     Weighted-average          cost reduced in Benin     status quo.
                                     wholesale cost            and Togo from 69.04 to
                                     estimated at USD          60.62 CFA/KWh, a
                                     0.0561/kwh.               reduction of 12%.
Indicator-2: Physical completion of 0.00 %                     100.00 %                  100.00 %
regional gas pipeline and of spurs
                                    02 May 2005                31 Dec 2013               31-Dec-2013
into Ghana, Benin, and Togo,
including main connections to       Project gets underway.     Pipeline operational      WAPCo passes its
target power plants (%).                                       since mid-2011.           performance testing
                                                                                         specified in the Project
                                                                                         Development Plan (PDP)
                                                                                         by end CY 2006.
Indicator-3: Number of large,     0                            4                         Not Specified
medium and small gas customers in
                                  02 May 2005                  31 Dec 2013               31-Dec-2013
Benin Ghana and Togo (No).
                                  None                         CEB and Contour Global Specific target was not set.
                                                               (Benin and Togo); and
                                                               VRA and Sunon-Asogli
                                                               (Ghana) are consuming
                                                               gas.
Indicator-4: Expanded volume of       0.0                      80.5                      133.0
energy trade in the region,
                                      02 May 2005              31 Dec 2013               31-Dec-2013
measured in terms of gas exports
from Nigeria (MMscf/day).             None                     Average Gas export over Contracted gas volume for
                                                               the last three months of Ghana, Togo and Benin.
                                                               2013.



Indicator-5: Harmonization of the     No                       Yes                       Yes
regional institutional, legal, and
                                      2 May 2005               31 Dec 2013               31-Dec-2013
regulatory framework to increase
private sector participation in the   There was no regional WAGPA has largely            Active involvement of
gas sector.                           authority             harmonized the               West Africa Regional
                                                            institutional, legal, and    Authority in Project
                                                            regulatory framework,        monitoring.
                                                            including granting open
                                                            access to WAGP.




                                                        viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   N/A
   1   18 Apr 2008         Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
   2   30 May 2008     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.00
   3   07 Oct 2008     Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
   4   19 Dec 2008     Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.00
   5   03 Sep 2009     Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.00
   6   05 Jun 2010         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
   7   23 Dec 2010         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
   8   14 Sep 2011         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
   9   23 May 2012         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
  10   18 Mar 2013         Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00

I. Disbursement Profile
No disbursement took place, as the project entailed only a PRG.




                                                 ix
x
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.       The West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) project comprises about 678 kilometers of
onshore and offshore pipelines to transport gas from Nigeria to power generation plants in Benin,
Togo, and Ghana, and associated processing/receiving facilities. The WAGP connected power
plants in Ghana, Togo, and Benin to large gas resources in Nigeria. The project was one of the
first regional Public-Private Partnership (PPP) initiatives for large infrastructure in West Africa.

1.1    Context at Appraisal

2.      Regional/country context. Of the four participating countries, Nigeria, with an estimated
population of about 133 million at the time of project appraisal, was Africa's most populous and
hydrocarbons-rich country. It had made impressive progress in consolidating the political
transition to a democratic nation, and had increased economic growth from 2 percent during
1995 to 1999 to an estimated 4.1 percent between 2000 and 2003. In addition, Nigeria had also
started full implementation of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) by 2004.
Ghana, with a population of about 20 million and a Gross National Income per capita of US$280
(2002), had made considerable progress in laying the foundations for sustainable growth and
poverty reduction. This resulted in sustained per capita output growth, averaging 1.6 percent per
annum, and increased private sector activity and investment, with corresponding improvements
in social indicators. With a population of about 7.3 million in 2003, Benin had a per capita
income of US$380, with over one third of its population living in poverty and inadequate access
to health care, education and other social services. Relative to most other countries in the sub-
region, Benin had achieved remarkable progress in sustaining robust growth while building up a
pluralist democracy over the past decade. Togo had a population of about 5.6 million in 2003,
and while it had strong growth from 1960 to the mid-l970s, largely through a boom in
international phosphate prices in 1975, the economy experienced severe strains in the 1980 and
1990s. Togo’s economic situation deteriorated sharply in 1998 with the four-month energy crisis
and the worsening of the economic and business climate that accompanied the contested
presidential election in June 1998.

3.       Energy sector background. Over 95% of foreign exchange earnings and 80% of Nigeria’s
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2004 was based on the export of crude oil. Nigeria also had
very large hydrocarbon resources, with 30 billion barrels of proven oil reserves and about 180
trillion cubic feet of gas. While oil production of approximately 2.2 million barrels per day, all of
it from the Niger Delta, was largely exported, gas production was limited due to a lack of
infrastructure, as a result of which 75% of the all gas produced (2,700 MMscf/day) had to be
flared. The inadequate processing and transmission pipelines also constrained the supply of gas
to thermal power plants in Nigeria. Ghana had historically relied on electricity supplies from
the hydroelectric plants of Akosombo (900 MW) and Kpong (100 MW) as well as on imports
from Cote d’Ivoire. With an average consumption growth of 8% p.a., and also to overcome
seasonal variations in hydro-generation, thermal generation had become imperative in the 1990s.
The 330 MW Takoradi (Tl) power plant was first built, and a second unit (T2) was also
contracted out to avert a power supply crisis. In Togo and Benin, power demand had also more
than doubled-from 510 GWh in 1993 to 1054 GWh by 2003 (growth of 10% p.a.). The
electricity requirements were met through one hydro plant in Togo, imports from Ghana and

                                                 1
Cote d’Ivoire, and limited domestic thermal generation. The joint electric utility for Benin and
Togo sought to overcome rapid growth in demand and low access rates in these two countries by
increasing thermal generation capacity in Lome and Cotonou.

4.      At the time of project appraisal, the energy sectors in the four countries were faced with
the following challenges: (a) high cost of thermal electricity generation on account of use of
expensive liquid fuels; (b) generation capacity deficits leading to unreliable power supply; (c)
non-utilization and flaring of gas in Nigeria, with attendant environmental consequences; (d)
insufficient regional cooperation in energy trade due to physical, institutional, regulatory, and
legal constraints, and weak political commitment; (e) poor power sector performance, and the
need for reforms in the participating countries; and (f) low access of the population to modern
sources of energy. WAGP was conceived as a response to address all the foregoing challenges.

5.      Rationale for World Bank Group assistance. Over several decades, the World Bank
Group (IDA, IFC, and MIGA) had been playing an important role in the energy sectors of Benin,
Togo, Ghana, and Nigeria as well as fostering private sector expertise and financing; it also had
experience in implementing large infrastructure projects. Support to the WAGP was also part of
the World Bank’s West Africa Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS), which focused
on 15 countries 1 to create an open, unified economic space through the integration of markets.
At the time of project appraisal, the West Africa sub-region had embarked on phased integration
in key sectors - air, road, and sea transport, energy, and telecommunications. The Bank was also
supporting several regional integration activities and was involved in a complementary initiative
called West Africa Power Pool (WAPP) project. The WAGP project was also part of the action
plan of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and actively supported by the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).

6.     WAGP was a collaborative effort of the World Bank (IDA PRG to cover payment risk)
and MIGA which arranged investment guarantees to cover the payment risk of VRA under the
Breach of Contract cover. Close coordination has been maintained during preparation, appraisal,
implementation and post-completion evaluation of the project. The field mission for the ICR
was jointly conducted by the World Bank and MIGA in October 2013. While this ICR covers the
IDA PRG, an independent Project Evaluation Report (PER) on the investment guarantee is being
prepared by MIGA.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.     Project development objectives. The WAGP will contribute to: (a) improving the
competitiveness of the energy sectors in Ghana, Benin, and Togo by promoting the use of
cheaper and environmentally cleaner gas from Nigeria in lieu of solid and liquid fuels for power
generation and other industrial and commercial uses, and by diversifying energy supply sources,
and (b) fostering regional economic and political integration that would support economic
growth, and in particular the development of the West Africa electricity market.

1
 Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d’Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Niger,
Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Lone, and Togo.



                                                     2
8.     Key indicators. The following key indicators were defined to track progress towards the
achievement of the development objectives of the project :

      Economic Indicators:
      • Decrease in the average wholesale cost of electricity supply in Ghana, Benin, and Togo
         compared to the "without gas" scenario;
      • Number of large, medium, and small gas customers in Ghana, Benin, and Togo;

      Physical Indicators:
      • Physical completion of regional gas pipeline and of spurs into Ghana, Benin, and Togo,
         including main connections to target power plants;
      • Expanded volume of energy trade in the region, measured in terms of gas exports from
         Nigeria;

      Institutional and Regulatory Indicators:
      • Harmonization of the regional institutional, legal, and regulatory framework to increase
          private sector participation in the gas sector.

1.3      Revised PDO and Key Indicators

9.       The project development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

10.    Primary beneficiary. WAPCo is the primary beneficiary of the IDA PRG, related to
payment risk by VRA for gas purchases committed under the Gas Sales Agreement (over 92% of
the foundation gas volume is for VRA plants).

11.     Other beneficiaries. There are a number of other beneficiaries/groups which have
benefited from WAGP, as follows:

      Participating Governments: Nigeria benefits through a market outlet for its large gas
      resources, increased revenues from gas exports, and a modest contribution to reduced flaring
      in the Niger delta; Ghana, Benin and Togo benefit from the availability of cheaper and
      environmentally cleaner gas for thermal power generation.

      Power consumers:
      Cost-effective generation through gas (instead of liquid fuels) aimed at improving access and
      affordability of electricity for consumers in Ghana, Benin and Togo.

      Rural population:
      (a) Community development programs for WAGP project affected persons envisaged to
      contribute to improvements in rural health, education and common infrastructure; and (b)
      Reduction of gas flaring was aimed at providing significant health benefits to communities


                                                  3
      where flaring was close to living and working environments (reduced CO, CO2 and
      particulate emissions).

1.5      Original Components

12.     Physical infrastructure. The original components of WAGP included the construction of a
high-pressure natural gas pipeline, which was to supply gas delivered from the western part of
the Niger Delta in Nigeria, via an existing high-pressure gas pipeline, the Escravos-Lagos
Pipeline System (ELPS), to the markets in Benin, Togo, and Ghana. The WAGP is a 678 km
long, (30 inch diameter onshore in Nigeria; and 20 inch diameter offshore pipeline) commencing
close to Lagos where the ELPS terminates. From the commencement point to the Nigerian coast
at Lagos beach (about 56 km) the pipeline is onshore. At Lagos Beach, a compression station is
constructed and thereafter the alignment runs about 15-20 km offshore along the coast to
Ghana. 2 The termination point of the pipeline is the site of the Takoradi thermal power station in
Ghana. Lateral pipelines are laid to permit natural gas delivery at regulation and metering
stations at Cotonou in Benin, Lome in Togo, and Tema and Takoradi in Ghana. The initial
installed capacity is about 170 MMscf/day but the pipeline has been sized to allow for expansion
to meet future demand growth, up to a maximum of 474 MMscf/day.

13.     Partial Risk Guarantee. Under the project (see Figure-1), N-Gas (owned by NNPC,
Chevron and Shell) contracts for the purchases of natural gas from the respective Chevron and
Shell joint ventures (JV) with NNPC at two delivery locations on the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline
System (ELPS) in Nigeria. N-Gas is also responsible for shipping gas on ELPS and WAGP to
the buyers in Benin, Togo, and Ghana. Since VRA in Ghana is the largest, single purchaser of
gas, the Bank provided a limited IDA Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG) to cover a portion of the
payment due to WAPCo for gas sold to VRA. The Gas Sales Agreement (GSA) includes a
portion of VRA’s overall payment to pay WAPCo for the transport of gas. In the event of any
continuing failure by VRA to pay its obligations, N-Gas could consider terminating the GSA, but
such a termination will result in VRA owing a “termination payment” to N-Gas and to WAPCo.
The PRG is designed to cover the risks faced by investors in WAPCo, arising from non-payment
by VRA for the gas received which could result in the termination of GSA.




2
 The initial compression would be two 12,500 horsepower centrifugal units, including 100% standby. The station
would be constructed to allow expansion with another four 12,500 horsepower units to accommodate the future
expected gas capacity of 470 MMscf/day.


                                                      4
                              Figure-1: IDA Partial Risk Guarantee Structure




1.6      Revised Components

14.      The project components were not revised.

1.7      Other Significant Changes

15.    International oil prices. Crude oil prices rose from an average of approximately $30/bbl at
the time of project appraisal in 2004 to a peak of $140/bbl in 2008, with prices in early 2014
about $100/bbl. This dramatic rise in commodity price led to high demand and competition for
petroleum related construction projects and related services globally but also increased the
economic benefits of the WAGP investment.

16.    Nigeria’s power sector reforms. Over the past ten years, Nigeria has embarked on an
ambitious plan for increasing its own thermal power generation capacity. It also put in place: (i)
a gas pricing policy; (ii) gas aggregation mechanisms 3; (iii) a gas master plan; and (iv) domestic
supply obligations on International Oil Companies (IOCs). Gas prices were steadily increased to
assure more supplies to the new power plants, and plans for augmenting the processing and
transmission infrastructure were developed in Nigeria. These changes meant a re-focus on
meeting the natural gas needs for domestic thermal plants, before any significant exports could
be contemplated.


3
  In managing all gas demand and supply requirements within Nigeria, the mechanism aggregates gas from IOCs for
resale to the strategic sectors at the aggregated price, and acts as a one stop intermediary point between the suppliers
and the diverse demand sectors. IOCs are not free to sell gas to any consumer, or export gas, without the consent of
the Aggregator.


                                                           5
2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.      Project preparation. The project was prepared in 2004 and the project documentation
correctly identified the key issues that had to be addressed in order to attract investment from
mainly the private sector for this large regional infrastructure undertaking. The background
analysis was sound and robust and the Bank’s knowledge of the energy sector in the participating
countries was duly reflected in the project documents. A multi-disciplinary team undertook due-
diligence and project preparation activities. Detailed assessments of the macroeconomic context,
the energy sector, environmental and social assessments, and future demand for fuel in power
generation in Nigeria, Benin, Togo and Ghana were undertaken in order to establish a need for
the PRG.

18.      Project design. The provision of a PRG to catalyze major investments in a gas
transmission pipeline system between four countries under a Public-Private Partnership (PPP)
was unique in the West African sub-region. In preparing the proposed Project, the Project team
drew lessons from the experience in developing power transmission facilities in the countries of
the region (Nigeria, Senegal / Mauritania / Mali) and in building regional pipeline facilities
worldwide (Chad / Cameroon, Mozambique, Bolivia, and Argentina). The innovative project
design resulted in the following major outcomes: (a) WAPCo's shareholders, particularly the
public sector entities such as VRA and CEB, were able to arrange for sufficient funding
(including risk mitigation instruments) to meet the cash requirements of the Project; (b) WAPCo
was able to initiate construction in early 2005; and (c) effective communication and consultation
was carried out with all stakeholders upfront.

19.      Quality at entry. A Quality at Entry review undertaken by QAG overall rated the project
Satisfactory4. All technical, commercial, financial and economic, and environmental and social
safeguards aspects of the project were thoroughly studied. The contractual framework had been
extensively designed and developed by the time of the Board. A total of 15 stakeholder meetings
were organized and 963 individuals were consulted (194 female) in all the four countries. The
project was assessed as robust under varying assumptions of future energy demand and prices.
For the most part, the project risks were thoroughly analyzed 5 and mitigation measures proposed
during project preparation; the gas supply risks were not fully assessed given that Nigeria’s
domestic consumption was relatively low, and a large amount of associated gas was being flared.
While in hindsight, it is easy to state that these risks were not properly assessed, these were hard
to anticipate at the time of appraisal. The commitment of the four participating countries to
supply and consume gas was adequately embodied in the International Project Agreement (IPA).
4
  Strategic relevance and approach, compliance with safeguard policies, implementation readiness and arrangements,
and risk assessment and mitigation were each rated Satisfactory; and technical, financial and economic aspects were
rated Highly Satisfactory. However, the project was identified as meriting close supervision because of potential
reputational risks that arise from its very nature, including reliance on gas that came from an area (the Niger Delta)
that faced security problems and civil unrest directly related to the petroleum sector, and possible concerns about its
consistency with the Bank’s Extractive Industries policy.
5
  The significant political and social issues in the Niger delta were recognized, and the project’s limited leverage to
resolve these larger issues was clearly stated in the project documents.


                                                          6
2.2     Implementation

20.      The project was conceived in 1982 by the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS), which was followed by a Study to confirm the viability of WAGP, and signing of
an Agreement by all the four participating countries. Table-1 provides the chronology of events
in the implementation of the project.

                Table-1: Implementation progress of West African Gas Pipeline Project

Month/Year      Milestone Event and Key Activities completed
Pre-May         (1) Signing Intergovernmental Agreement for Harmonized Fiscal and Regulatory Regime (2000).
2005            (2) Establishment of preliminary Commercial Structure (August 2002).
(Preparation    (3) Signing of WAGP Treaty by Benin, Ghana, Nigeria and Togo (January 2003).
Phase)          (4) Conceptual Design Package of Pipeline submitted to the States (April 2003).
                (5) WAPCo formed as BOT entity; International Project Agreement signed (May 2003).
                (6) Sensitization Seminars / Technical Workshops held (September – December 2003).
                (7) Final WAGP Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Report submitted (January 2004).
                (8) Ratification of WAGP Treaty by the 4 Project countries (October 2004).
                (9) Nigeria, Benin, Ghana and Togo issue EIA Permits/provisional approvals (November 2004).
                (10) Enabling legislation for WAPCo passed; Final Investment Decision taken (December 2004).
                (11) Environmental Authorities in Benin, Ghana and Togo grant final EIA Permits (April 2005).
                (12) The four States give WAPCo the License to construct the pipeline (April 2005).
August 2005     (1) Offshore construction of West Africa Gas Pipeline commences (August 2005).
– April 2009    (2) Onshore civil construction begins in Nigeria and Ghana (March 2006).
(Construction   (3) Construction of compressor station in Nigeria commences (April 2006).
Phase     for   (4) Onshore civil construction in Benin and Togo starts (September 2007).
free-flow gas   (5) Offshore pipeline ready for commissioning (November 2007).
supply)         (6) Takoradi Regulating & Metering Station ready to receive free-flow gas (December 2007).
                (7) Commissioning of onshore and offshore pipeline; Itoki inlet valves opened (August 2008).
                (8) First natural gas supply through WAGP arrives in Ghana (December 2008).
                (9) Ghana's VRA generates electricity with free-flow natural gas from WAGP (April 2009).
May 2009 –      (1) Gas deliveries made at Tema R&M Station (August 2010).
April 2011      (2) Lome R & M station gassed-up and prepared for free flow gas (October 2010).
(Construction   (3) Remaining works at Itoki tie-in station, Lagos Beach Compressor Station, Cotonou R&M,
Phase     for        Tema R&M stations completed (November - December 2010).
compressed      (4) Gas compression into offshore pipeline commenced (February – March 2011).
gas supply)     (5) WAGPA approves the WAPCo request for the completion of the project (April 2011).
May 2011 –      (1) Commercial Operation Date of the project reached (October 2011).
To-date         (2) Gas supplies disrupted on account of pipeline rupture in Lome (August 2012).
(Operational    (3) Pipeline repair completed and gas supplies restored to Foundation customers (June 2013).
Phase)          (4) Gas supplies to VRA and CEB being delivered while ELPS in Nigeria is under Force Majeure.

21.      The project was implemented by WAPCo, and supervision was undertaken jointly with
MIGA to ensure that the Bank’s policies on environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and
involuntary resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) were complied with. The safeguard missions started
during the early months of construction (2005-07) and focused on strengthening the
implementing agency’s (WAPCo) capacities to comply with the Bank’s environmental and
social safeguard policies and procedures. During this time, corresponding safeguards documents
were completed and disclosed prior to completion of physical works.

22.    On April 27, 2006, prior to project effectiveness, the Inspection Panel (IP) registered a
Request for Inspection submitted by the Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum of WAGP,
                                                      7
comprising 12 communities affected by the Project around the Badagry area in Lagos State. The
request pertained to: (a) WAPCo’s non-compliance with Bank’s environmental assessment
policies; (b) WAPCo’s non-adherence to the Bank’s involuntary resettlement policies; and (c)
the Bank not undertaking adequate project supervision. The IP undertook its field investigation
in March 2007 and found the Bank team to be non-compliant on all three counts. One of the key
findings was the early lapse in preparation and delays in addressing major safeguards issues
during initial implementation. A final report was presented to the Board in July 2008, containing
a Management Action Plan (MAP) that aimed at resolving key project implementation issues. In
the MAP, at least two Bank supervision missions per year, and monthly field visits until project
completion, were scheduled. In addition, increased attention by Bank Management was provided
for addressing evolving issues, especially those pertaining to directly affected households.
Details of the safeguards compliance and project outcomes are provided in Annex-2.

23.    Aside from the safeguards issues, the implementation of the project was impacted by
force majeure events attributed to illegal anchoring of a ship in the exclusion zone 6 in Benin, and
damage to the pipeline lateral in Lome, during the construction phase 7. In addition, there were
unforeseen issues with the main onshore pipeline contractor which required its de-mobilization,
and subsequent engagement of a new contractor. From 2008 onwards, the Bank Management
and task teams stayed engaged closely with WAPCo to ensure that the project could be
completed with minimum delays.

2.3      Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

24.    M&E Design. The M&E arrangements were extensive. The institutional arrangements
allowed a number of entities to undertake specific monitoring activities, and generate data for
monitoring project outcomes and results. The design entailed coordination among the following:

      ChevronTexaco: Managing the construction and commissioning of the WAGP pipeline, and
      monitoring of physical progress.

      WAPCo: Monitoring overall progress including HSE issues, contracting with environmental
      firms to conduct independent audits of the implementation of the Environmental
      Management Plan (EMP) at least twice, and possibly three times, during the 12- to 15-month
      construction period and once every three years thereafter, and implementing the RAP.

      Energy Ministry in the four countries: Providing the short- and medium-term plans for the
      expansion of power generation, and the development of gas sector.

      VRA and CEB: Providing progress reports on converting the power plants to use natural gas,
      in addition to liquid fuels.
      Bank task team: Supervising pipeline construction, technical, commercial, environmental and
      social safeguards implementation, and placing key reports for public dissemination.

6
 Exclusion zone on the Maritime maps refer to the area where ships are not allowed to lower their anchor.
7
 There were two incidents of pipeline breaks due to illegal anchoring at Cotonou in 2008, and at Lome in 2010
during the construction phase.


                                                     8
      WAGP Authority: Monitoring compliance of WAPCo with permits and regulations, and
      meeting of its obligations under the project-related documents.

25.      The PDO and related indicators were ambitious and went somewhat beyond what could
realistically be leveraged by the operation. Some indicators were not well defined, and some
indicators lacked either the target or baseline. For Indicator 1, the average wholesale cost of
electricity supply in Ghana, Benin, and Togo was compared to the "without gas" scenario, even
though the comparison entailed variation of hydro availability and large increase in demand in
the future years. Under Indicators 3 and 4 (number of customers; and expanded volume of
energy trade in the region), no targets were indicated 8. In the case of Indicator 5 there was a
mismatch between target and the indicator, where the indicator was broad and referred to
harmonization of the regional institutional and, legal and regulatory framework, the target
referred merely to the participation of the West African Regional Authority in monitoring.

26.     M&E Implementation. Notwithstanding the extensive M&E design, implementation fell
short of what was intended, especially relating to gas supply, commercial and safeguard issues.
The main reasons for weak M&E implementation were: (a) ChevronTexaco and WAPCo initially
concentrated on monitoring the progress on civil works and financial aspects but did not give
enough attention to the gas supply, commercial and safeguard issues, and only incorporated
environmental and social indicators in the second year; and (b) there was no functional M&E set-
up in WAPCo during the project’s early months.

27.     M&E Utilization. Once the IP initiated its investigation in March 2007, the Bank task
team collected data on the associated and non-associated gas production in Nigeria, levels of gas
flaring, gas utilization, commercial implications, environmental parameters and social impacts
and resettlement costs with the full assistance of the M&E institutions. Demand and consumption
of gas in Nigeria, supply projections, and supply-demand gaps were also estimated.

2.4       Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.    The 2007 IP investigation found shortcomings in project supervision. In the Management
Action Plan, the Bank task team was to address the issue of “inadequate compliance with OP/BP
10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations, and OP/BP 13.05 on Project
Supervision,” in particular:

      • Incorrect assumptions for the economic evaluation of the Project relating to reduction of
      the flaring of associated gas in Nigeria; and

      •   Inadequate project supervision by the Bank team.



8
 During the period of July 11, 2013 to December 31, 2013, WAGP delivered an average of 77.093 MMscf/day to
Ghana, Benin and Togo. The average delivered gas in CY2011 was 80.5 MMscf/day against a contract volume of
133 MMscf/day.


                                                    9
29.    Environmental and Social Safeguards. WAPCo disclosed relevant environmental and
social management plans for WAGP infrastructures in each of the participating countries. These
plans were presented by WAPCo in a Stakeholder Workshop in 2007 and the updated EMP and
RAP reports were discussed at in-country workshops in 2008-2009. While safeguard activities
during the early implementation stages were inadequate, resulting in an IP investigation, these
were later corrected through the execution of a thorough Management Action Plan 9. Further, the
IP noted that WAPCo was to undertake corrective actions in the following key areas:

         •   Damage to the land and livelihoods of certain communities.
         •   Loss of incomes, specifically by:
              Fishermen in Nigeria and Ghana due to environmental impacts of the Project on
                their fishing grounds / ecosystem; and
              Project affected persons (PAPs) losing land, trees and/or other assets, including
                future income streams along the right-of-ways.
         c. Inadequate disclosure of relevant information, such as the EA and RAP.

30.     The Bank task team addressed the issue of “inadequate compliance with OP/BP 10.04 on
Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations, and OP/BP 13.05 on Project Supervision,” in
particular: (a) incorrect assumptions for the economic evaluation of the Project relating to
reduction of the flaring of associated gas in Nigeria; and (b) inadequate project supervision by
the Bank team. On reduction of the flaring of associated gas in Nigeria, it was clarified that the
project would make a modest contribution given the small volume of gas export compared to the
total quantity flared. Inadequate supervision by the Bank during the early months of project
supervision was recognized, and at least two Bank missions in a year and monthly field visits by
the staff were undertaken during the remaining period of project construction.

31.     Environmental and Social Mitigation Measures. During implementation, and following
the IP investigation, WAPCo adopted several corrective measures: (a) completed the updated
RAP to cover land owners, who were inadequately compensated for land and assets along the
pipeline right of way and construction sites, which required WAPCO to assess the fair market
value and opportunity costs for loss of trees, crop and structures; (b) revised the EMP to include
clearly identified environmental management counterparts in participating countries; and (c)
provided Community Development Projects focused on health and skills training and livelihood
support. These were undertaken in addition to a comprehensive 24 point-Management Action
Plan (MAP) that was implemented based on the IP’s findings. At the time of the ICR, WAPCo
had completed all activities agreed under MAP.

32.    Financial Management, Procurement and Disbursement. Since the project was a PRG,
there were no financial management, procurement or disbursement issues.




9
 Detailed Progress Reports 1 to 5 on the implementation of the Management Action Plan by the Sector
Management to the Board , is available (see 30-34 in Annex 9).


                                                10
2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

33.      Post-completion operation. The Commercial Operation Date (COD) was reached on
November 1, 2011 and triggered a number of provisions under the contractual framework. Prior
to COD, natural gas was being supplied to the foundation customers on a ‘best-endeavor’ basis,
without ‘take-or-pay’ provisions being applied, in the event of default by either the suppliers or
the buyers. Since construction and commissioning of the Lagos Beach Compressor Station
(LBCS) took time, non-compressed free-flow gas was supplied to Ghana throughout 2010, again
on a best-endeavor basis. The WAGP faced initial problems during the first few years of its
operation as follows: (a) delivered gas in Nigeria in the early months did not meet WAGP
specifications; (b) there was one pipeline rupture near Lome, resulting in the disruption of gas
deliveries; and (c) there were fatalities at Takoradi R&M station during the re-commissioning of
the pipeline in November 2012 which obliged WAPCo to undertake a comprehensive review of
its safety protocols on their entire pipeline system.

34.    The gas supply obligations to WAGP i.e. ‘Foundation Volume (133 mmscf/d) have not
been met since commissioning. The main reason for this is that domestic demand for gas
increased in Nigeria, gas infrastructure development in Nigeria was slower than expected, and
the limiting capacity of the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS) in Nigeria became a
constraint to increasing gas supplies to the WAGP. However, Nigeria is actively pursuing the
development of its domestic gas supply infrastructure, including doubling of the capacity of
ELPS, which would greatly enhance the delivery of contracted volumes to WAGP by 2015.
Given the huge financial and economic benefit of using gas, VRA and CEB are reluctant to
invoke the pertinent clauses of their supply contracts, and instead have been relying on the
goodwill of N-Gas to provide whatever gas volumes they could. In fact, supplies have been
under Force Majeure since re-commissioning of the pipeline in July 2013, so ‘send or pay’ has
been suspended.

35.      Completion of WAGP initiated the beginning of a West African gas market. Potential
demand for gas from power utilities and other customers far exceeds the 1st phase pipeline
capacity (170 MMscf/day). This capacity has not yet been fully utilized because of gas supply
constraints in Nigeria 10, even though the prospects of its full utilization from 2015 onwards are
quite optimistic. Consideration is, therefore, being given to investing in additional compression
facilities to increase the transmission capacity to 474 MMscf/day (in a 2nd phase expansion) as
the regional gas market develops. With the recent discovery of oil and gas in Ghana, new
opportunities have arisen in terms of incorporating the WAGP infrastructure into plans for the
development of a domestic pipeline system in Ghana. There has been interest expressed by the
authorities in Cote d’Ivoire for extension of WAGP to connect their power utility. It is important
to emphasize that the pace of development of the Nigerian gas system in the short term will
likely determine how well its domestic and export markets (including WAGP) are served.
Overall, WAGP has laid the foundation of a sub-regional market with a large number of
customers exploring supplies from large gas producers, and through imported LNG.

10
  The ELPS is currently under partial Force Majeure and repairs and looping are expected to be completed by end
2014. In the meanwhile, WAGP has been declared an open-access infrastructure and suppliers other than
ChevronTexaco and SPDC can become shippers of gas for customers in Ghana, Benin and Togo.


                                                      11
3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

36.     Relevance of objectives. The project objectives, which aimed at reducing power
generation costs and fostering regional economic integration, remain highly relevant to each
individual country’s growth strategy and to the Bank’s regional integration strategy in West
Africa. Growth in electricity demand remains robust in each participating country, and the use of
higher cost, imported fuels when lower-cost natural gas is unavailable has primarily a budget
impact as well as an impact on the balance of payments of these countries.

37.     Design. The design arrangements for a regional infrastructure investment also remain
relevant. Project design was kept simple, comprising only essential investment components and
the necessary institutions in the supply and beneficiary countries. The institutional framework for
this regional project was also well defined. Regional and national ownership was strong and the
investment supported by key regional institutions such as ECOWAS and NEPAD. Finally, the
importance of developing and implementing an effective communications and consultation
program for affected stakeholders was recognized during project design.

38.     The PRG structure for enabling the shareholder investments for WAGP focused on the
off-taker risk of VRA, the primary purchaser of gas flowing through the pipeline. This was an
appropriate use of the PRG instrument and proved effective. Risks associated with the supply of
gas volume from Nigeria were not foreseen, given the large resource availability and gas flaring
in Nigeria. Several subsequent events took place which had an important bearing on the gas
supply situation for WAGP, as follows: (a) Nigeria experienced a period of political and social
unrest in Niger Delta, resulting in frequent vandalization of gas supply infrastructure; (b) Nigeria
also embarked on its own gas master plan including sector reforms, but the implementation
progress of different projects remained slow; and (c) an ambitious and gas-to-power program
was launched which impacted the availability of gas volumes for WAGP. The PRG framework
did not fully take into account the developments in the Nigerian domestic gas market and
infrastructure which had an important bearing on the financial viability of the project.

39.     Implementation. The approach adopted for implementing the project through WAPCo,
and drawing on resources of the IOCs (NNPC, Chevron, and Shell) was appropriate and
relevant as it fostered a cooperative spirit. Implementation of the project using international
skills and domestic experience was also relevant in terms of a transfer of knowledge and know-
how. The PRG was also instrumental in facilitating the necessary investments in the project.
However, the contractual framework, which was envisaged to bring commercial discipline (take-
or-pay provisions; make-up volumes; penalties; etc) between the sellers and buyers in the
evolving gas market, has not been enforced due to Force Majeure events.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

40.     Overall. The achievement of the PDO’s is rated Moderately Satisfactory. While the
West Africa Gas Pipeline is recently starting to improve the competitiveness of the energy
sectors of Ghana, Benin and Togo (by promoting the use of cheaper and environmentally cleaner

                                                12
gas from Nigeria over the project period), key outcome indicators-in particular the volume of gas
exports from Nigeria- has been substantially achieved by the project’s closing date, December
31, 2013 11 (but not fully achieved). Going forward, WAGP has the potential to further foster
regional economic and political integration through the development of the West Africa energy
market. It is likely that the PDO will be fully achieved in the coming years as the volume of gas
in the WAGP will increase by mid-2015 when the ELPS transmission capacity in Nigeria is
expected to have been doubled. Finally, the beginning of a West African regional gas market is
already evident as several potential stakeholders (producers in Nigeria and Ghana, LNG
importers, consumers, WAPCo as a transportation entity) are taking steps to enter into
commercial arrangements.

41.     Indicator 1: Decrease in wholesale generation cost. With the availability of natural gas
since late 2009, the wholesale generation cost has been decreasing in Ghana, Benin, and Togo
(see Annex-2 for details). The thermal generation cost using natural gas is about 40% compared
to use of Light Crude Oil in the three countries 12. During 2011, when the supply of gas continued
without interruption, the wholesale generation cost in Ghana decreased by 14% (in line with the
target of 10-20%) and in Benin and Togo by 12% (compared to a target of 40%), not accounting
for changes in the generation mix (higher national demand; low hydro availability; increased
thermal generation) and sharp increase in oil prices. This indicator has been substantially
achieved 13.
42.     Indicator 2: Physical completion of gas pipeline and spurs. All physical infrastructure
related to WAGP was completed by mid-2011, albeit a few years later than what was planned.
As of end 2013, the gas pipeline and spurs were fully operational despite quantities of gas
supplied through WAGP to Ghana, Togo and Benin being below the contracted volume i.e.
133MMscf/day. With the physical completion of WAGP infrastructure, it may be used to support
expanded trade in the ECOWAS region, as new gas reserves and domestic supply infrastructure
are developed in Nigeria and in other regional countries (such as Ghana). This indicator has been
fully achieved.

43.     Indicator 3: Number of large, medium and small gas customers. The current number of
gas customers is four. Currently, natural gas is being supplied to VRA (Ghana) and CEB
(Benin/Togo) as well as to two new entities, namely, Sunon Asogli Power 14in Tema (Ghana)
and Contour Global power plant in Lome (Togo). Supply of gas to other new gas customers
beyond these main consumers has not yet been possible due to gas supply constraints. While no
quantitative target was set at appraisal for this indicator, gas is currently being supplied through
the WAGP to each of the main gas consumers envisaged at appraisal, as well as two new entities,
and the indicator is considered to have been substantively achieved.



11
   The World Bank Operational Policies (BP 14.25 – Guarantees) prescribes that ICRs for Partial Risk and Partial
Credit Guarantees are initiated two years after Project Completion and completed within six months thereafter.
12
   Ghana Power Sector Financial Review (June 2013), World Bank Internal Paper.
13
   This takes into account that Ghana consumes 95% plus of the gas (and was also envisaged to be the main gas
consumer at appraisal); in Benin and Togo, cost of generation is expected to reduce drastically in the coming year.
14
   Ghana-Chinese IPP in Tema, Ghana.


                                                        13
44.     Indicator 4: Expanded volume of energy trade in the region. The objective of expanded
trade in the West African sub-regional market has been substantially realized, notwithstanding
gas supply constraints in Nigeria. Free-flow gas has been supplied since early 2009 though
interruptions were experienced on account of moisture content (March 2009 - February 2010)
and rupture of the pipeline near Lome (August 2012 - June 2013) 15. Table-2 provides historical
supply of gas to WAGP and deliveries in Ghana, Benin and Togo. Throughout project
implementation, gas reserves and supply potential continued to be abundant even though demand
in Nigeria's power sector has also been growing. Domestic gas pipeline capacity constraints and
security issues in Nigeria amounted effectively to force majeure, resulting in reduced gas
volumes for WAGP during the period under review. The target gas volumes were the 'contracted'
volumes i.e. 133 MMscf/d, but the average gas volume (for a full year operation) has been 84.0
MMscf/day in 2011. During October-December 2013, the average gas delivery has been 80.5
MMscf/day16, or 60% of contracted volumes.

       Table-2: Historical receipt of gas for WAGP, and delivery in Ghana, Benin and Togo

             Supplies to WAGP          Deliveries in Ghana        Deliveries in Togo   Deliveries in Benin    Total

   Year      MMscf        MMsf/d MMscf                MMsf/d MMscf          MMsf/d MMscf             MMsf/d MMscf
   2009       283,489        1          197,977          1          -           -           -           -         197,977
   2010     14,585,068       40       13,207,620        36          -           -           -           -       13,207,620
   2011     30,594,449       84       28,393,810        78      268,072         1        184,209        1       28,846,091
  2012*     17,769,346       49       15,477,848        42      668,991         2       1,095,201       3       17,242,040
  2013*     13,881,965       38       11,573,011        32      867,615         2        819,505        2       13,260,131
 * The daily average gas supply figures account for days when the pipeline was not operating due to Force Majeure event.
 Source: WAPCo

45.    In addition, other positive developments have taken place: (a) the gas supply from
Nigeria has shown an upward trend, and during the first week of January 2014, average delivery
was about 108 MMscf/day; (b) there has been a decrease in the use of liquid fuels in thermal
generation plants in Ghana, Benin and Togo; and (b) the flaring of AG in Nigeria has decreased
by about 50%, some of which is due to WAGP (see Annex-2). Overall, this indicator is
considered to have been substantially achieved by end 2013.

46.     Indicators 1-4 are closely linked to the first sub-objective of the overall PDO (e.g.
improving the competitiveness of the energy sectors in Ghana, Benin, and Togo by promoting
the use of cheaper and environmentally cleaner gas from Nigeria in lieu of solid and liquid fuels
for power generation and other industrial and commercial uses, and by diversifying energy
supply sources). Since all these indicators have been either fully or substantially achieved, this
sub-objective has been substantially achieved with some moderate shortcomings, as follows: (a)
the project implementation experienced delays with cost over-runs, even though free-flow gas
was supplied from early 2009 onwards; (b) while Ghana is reaping the full benefits of a cheaper

15
  Jan-March 2014 gas supplies to WAGP were approx. 5,800,000 MMscf, or an average 64 MMscf/day.
16
  The average gas supply over the last three months of 2013 is used as the end of project actual value for this
indicator for the purpose of the ICR. However, the average volume since commissioning is lower because of the
reduced number of days that the WAGP was available due to rupture and repairs.



                                                             14
and environmentally cleaner gas from Nigeria, the reduction in the wholesale generation cost in
Benin and Togo is yet to be fully realized (their share in gas supply is less than 5% of the total);
and (c) contracted gas supplies of 133 MMscf/day from Nigeria are yet to be assured on a
sustained basis. These shortcomings are being addressed through other FGN and Bank initiatives
in Nigeria, and gas supplies are expected to be stabilized by 2015.

47.      Indicator 5: Regional Regulatory Authority. WAGPA has been established through the
signing of WAGP Treaty and the International Project Agreement, and was actively involved in
project monitoring during the construction phase. It has undertaken and harmonized the
institutional and regulatory framework in the four countries, and has developed and implemented
the following: (a) WAGP Regulations; (b) the Pipeline Development Plan; (c) Access Code; (d)
commercial Agreements; and (e) rules of procedures for dispute resolution. The pipeline has
been operational with adequate regulatory oversight, and the indicator has been fully achieved.

48.     Overall assessment. The project development objectives have been achieved by
delivering lower cost natural gas to the power plants in Ghana, Benin, and Togo and displacing
higher cost liquid fuels, which has brought down the cost of gas-based electricity generation.
The project has also fostered regional economic and political integration through the
development of the West Africa electricity market and the operation of the WAGPA.

49.     It is clear that provision of gas (and displacement of liquid fuels) has brought about an
increased competitiveness of the power sectors in the above three countries. The provision of
gas - even though still below contractual volumes - has also diversified the fuel mix. Of the five
main indicators listed in the preceding paragraphs, Indicators 2 and 5 had been met by December
2013, while Indicator 1 (Wholesale cost of electricity supply) had been substantially achieved.
Indicator 3 did not have a target value though gas is being provided to the two main gas
consumers planned at appraisal, plus two additional entities. Finally, with regard to Indicator 4
(Gas export supplies to the WAGP), this indicator had reached 60% of targeted volumes by end
2013. Overall, based on progress made towards each of the above indicators, the achievement of
the development objectives is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.3    Efficiency

50.     Efficiency of the WAGP is measured in terms of post-completion financial and economic
returns and comparing these with what was forecast at the time of project appraisal. Such a
comparison provides an assessment of the delays in implementation, impact of variation of
capital and operating costs, increase of price of gas and liquid fuels, availability of gas volumes,
commercial and economic benefits, and consequences of the unforeseen events.

51.     Net present value / Economic rate of return. Despite the lower volume and interrupted
supply of gas from Nigeria, the project remains the least cost alternative for consumer countries.
Cost savings for generation on gas compared to LCO are estimated at 15-17 USc/kWh. The ex-
post economic analysis shows that WAGP remains efficient, despite lower gas volumes and large
pipeline cost overruns. Four key variables that influence the economic results have changed
significantly since appraisal: (i) project costs; (ii) commissioning date; (iii) oil prices; and (iv)
gas supply volume. In addition, the opportunity cost for gas in Nigeria has increased from an

                                                 15
estimated economic cost at project appraisal (in 2004) of US$ 0.5/MMbtu to US$4/MMbtu.17
This increase reflects the increasing scarcity of gas in the Nigerian market that has resulted both
from constrained supply in combination with increased demand for gas in the electricity
generation subsector. Annex-3 provides details of the economic and financial evaluation of the
project.

52.     While gas supply from Nigeria is expected to improve by mid 2015, two supply scenarios
were defined to analyze the ex-post economic evaluation of WAGP. The high case gas supply
scenario assumes that existing gas volumes to Ghana, Benin and Togo of 80 MMBtu per day
would be sustained from 2014 onwards. The results yield a net present value (NPV) of US$1.9
million, and a corresponding economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 18.6%. The low supply
scenario assumes that supply volumes will be 60 MMBtu per day. The low case scenario yields a
NPV of US$1.1 million, and an EIRR of 16.0%. The ex-post EIRRs are lower than the ex-ante
EIRRs of 25% (low case) and 31% (high case) due to (i) increased capital costs in combination
with delays in commissioning, and (ii) lower gas supply volume than envisaged at appraisal.
However, oil prices are currently about four times higher than projected at appraisal. This has
partially offset the combined adverse impact of increased project costs, delayed commissioning,
and reduced gas volumes, resulting in EIRRs between 16% and 18.6% in the low and high cases
respectively in the ex-post evaluation.

53.     Financial rate of return. An ex-post financial evaluation, consistent with the economic
scenarios, was undertaken to assess the financial sustainability of WAGP. The financial results
have also been strongly impacted by: (i) increased project investment costs; (ii) delays in
commissioning; and (iii) reduced gas supply volumes. WAGP transportation charges currently
are somewhat higher than originally anticipated at the time of appraisal. The estimated ex-post
FIRR are 4.4% and 0.9% for the high and low case scenarios respectively, to be compared to the
15% weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The financial analysis shows that WAPCo will
likely face problems to sustain operations and service its debt to the shareholders (or provide
return on their equity).

54.      Assessment of PRG in support of the project. World Bank Group (WBG) participation
through the IDA PRG (and the MIGA guarantees) provided financial risk mitigation and political
comfort to stakeholders during preparation and implementation. These guarantees addressed the
critical risk of payments by VRA and enabled the project to proceed. The net benefits have been
large, with multiplier effects on employment and livelihoods, given mobilization of investments
of about $1 billion and regular payments by VRA for the gas purchased. In addition, the
involvement of WBG also helped ensure the implementation of the environmental and social
mitigation measures to the benefit of the impacted communities.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

55.     Overall, the outcome of the project is rated as Moderately Satisfactory (MS). The
positive aspects of the project include: (i) relevance of the project objectives, design and

17
   US$4/MMBtu is an estimated opportunity cost based on what would enable capital cost recovery from investment
in a combined cycle power plant. The actual gas price paid by IPPs in Nigeria is lower, around US$2.70-3.0/MMBtu


                                                      16
implementation; (ii) significant economic benefits being derived by the three beneficiary
countries; (iii) economic efficiency of the investment itself; and (iv) stimulus given to regional
energy development despite implementation delays and less than contracted gas supply volumes.

56.     The provision of gas has diversified the fuel mix and contributed to the reduction of
greenhouse gases in consumer countries. Also, despite a delay of four years, a large cost over-
run, and lower volumes of gas, the recalculated EIRR is still 16% in the low case scenario, which
is acceptable. Of the 5 main indicators, all had been fully or substantively met by December
2013. With regard to Indicator 4 (Gas supply volumes to the WAGP), gas supplies were 60% of
contracted volume by end 2013. However, by mid-2015, when the gas pipeline transmission
capacity in Nigeria is expected to have been doubled, there is a realistic prospect that even
greater economic benefits from this investment will be attained. Finally, the beginning of a West
African regional gas market is already evident as several potential suppliers are taking steps to
enter into commercial arrangements with suppliers in Nigeria and elsewhere (ENI and Tullow in
Ghana; LNG importers). In sum, on the basis of the above considerations, a Moderately
Satisfactory (MS) rating is justified for the overall outcome.

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

      (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

57.     Poverty and social impacts. Provision of natural gas for power generation has enabled
Ghana, Benin and Togo to produce electricity at competitive costs compared to liquid fuels, and
limit the tariff increases which would have otherwise been necessary. The growth in electricity
consumption in Ghana has been 7.2% per annum while commercial sector (small businesses,
shops and small-scale production) growth has been 7.93%. The provision of electricity to
customers in Ghana has been a contributing factor to help reduce poverty by 5 percentage points
from 29% in 2005 to about 24% in 2012 (see Annex 2).

58.     In addition, and as part of its corporate social responsibility, WAPCo completed 66
Community Development Projects (CDP) during the first two years of implementing livelihood
assistance programs for the communities directly impacted by the project. For years 1 and 2, the
focus was on community infrastructure (school blocks, boreholes, clinics, drainage, markets). In
year 3, there was a shift from physical infrastructure to livelihood development programs (e.g.
training and skills development, scholarships). The programs were designed based on results
from a beneficiary assessment and socio-economic survey. The survey of income and livelihood
measured changes from the start of the project in 2004-2005 (when a baseline measurement was
undertaken in preparation for the RAP).

59.     The results of the 2009 survey showed that: (a) educational levels continued to be
moderately high but membership in social groups was limited; (b) the income levels reflected
relative poverty, which was consistent with the regional poverty rate but less than the national
average (12.5% of the total sample earned less than N5,000 (US$ 33) per month); (c) access to
land and other natural resources was found to be just adequate, but had declined slightly since
the 2005 survey; and (d) some of the affected communities still did not have primary or
secondary schools, water supply and health facilities (which government was supposed to

                                               17
provide in 2008). Nonetheless, the outcome of the measures that were subsequently taken for
livelihood restoration has led to positive social development for affected communities. 18

60.     Gender aspects. The socio-economic survey in Nigeria, where the vast majority of PAPs
are located, was used by WAPCo to develop a profile of vulnerable groups (female-headed
households; persons with disabilities etc). WAPCo assigned gender specialists to tailor the
CDPs to the specific needs of female-headed households. For example, women comprised more
than 60% of participants in the life skills training programs (e.g. water sanitation, safety, and
nutrition) and 41% of the 162 beneficiaries of the scholarship program in 2012-13.

     (b) Institutional Building/Strengthening

61.     Institution-building: The Project created a new regional gas regulatory authority,
WAGPA, which established regulatory processes and an institutional capacity that can be used as
models for natural gas pipeline operations in other jurisdictions. WAPCo, too, has acquired
experience in implementing large gas pipeline infrastructure projects, which would be invaluable
in either expanding the capacity of WAGP, or in extending the pipeline to other countries (such
as Cote d’Ivoire). WAPCo has also been in contact with LNG companies to explore the LNG
import option for filling up the available pipeline capacity. The utilities (VRA and CEB) have
converted their generation units to dual fuel (liquid fuels and natural gas) and have trained their
staff to operate the assets with either LCO or gas. All in all, WAGP has contributed to creating
new capacity and strengthening existing institutions.

62.     Additionally, WAPCo worked closely with federal and state environmental agencies,
organized several training workshops, and shared international experiences to strengthen their
professional capacities for regulating environmental aspects of pipeline operations. In this
regard, WAPCo purchased air quality monitoring equipment for national environment agencies,
sponsored training for their use, and organized meetings to create awareness about: (a) safety of
pipelines; (b) danger of anchoring in the exclusion zone; and (c) issues arising from sand-mining
close to the pipeline.

63.     Supporting local authorities. WAGP has contributed to the implementation of sustainable
social programs by turning over to communities the responsibilities for operating and
maintaining (O&M) the CDPs. This was achieved through the signing of Memoranda of
Understanding (MoU) between WAPCo and local authorities. While the project covered the
expenses for O&M during the first year, WAPCo encouraged local governments to include the
CDPs in their annual budgets (e.g. school teachers and health providers were to be recruited by
local authorities for the schools and health centers).

64.    Although the turn-over process proved more challenging than anticipated, WAPCo’s
emphasis on promoting the involvement of communities along the right of way of the onshore
pipeline has proven to be an effective approach for three reasons. First, community participation

18
  WAPCo’s emphasis on developing community based communications created awareness of the benefits and responsibilities of
communities adjacent to large-scale infrastructure projects.




                                                          18
in the enforcement of security measures contributed to greater awareness of security issues of
onshore pipeline systems. Second, the measures that were implemented in combination with
extensive consultations have raised awareness among government agencies, sponsors, and in
particular WAPCo partners, about the importance of addressing social and environmental risks
and community buy-in to ensure sustainability of large-scale infrastructure projects. Lastly, local
governance, including dispute resolution processes, was strengthened.

      (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative)

65.      There have been no unintended outcomes and impacts.

3.6      Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and Stakeholder Workshops

66.      No Beneficiary Survey was carried out and no stakeholder workshops were organized.

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

67.     The key factor determining the sustainability of WAGP in the short term is gas supply
volumes from Nigeria. This risk is both technical (in that shortfalls in new gas supplies and
continuing growth in demand for gas in Nigeria along the ELPS will likely limit volumes
available to WAGP buyers, until ELPS capacity is doubled by mid-2015 and a pipeline
interconnecting east and west Niger delta regions in Nigeria is completed, currently estimated to
be 2017) and political since the FGN may adopt a policy to limit export of natural gas in order to
meet first its own domestic supply needs. The shortage of gas also poses financial sustainability
risks for WAPCo. While these uncertainties would remain, the risk to the sustainability of the
project benefits in the short term is considered Moderate. In the longer term, open access to
WAGP (which has been allowed since 2012) could bring in new regional suppliers of gas, which
could reduce the supply risk and improve prospects for longer term sustainability.

68.     The risk relating to a potential future call on the PRG is low, even though VRA remains
in a weak financial position because of its continuing dependence on oil fired thermal generation.
However, the risk of VRA defaulting on its payment obligations is small because of the financial
repercussions of not receiving any gas from WAPCo and having to resort to buying LCO i.e.
VRA would end up paying a higher cost for the fuel needed to keep its thermal plants operating.
Also, if gas were to be made available to VRA from recently discovered domestic sources in
Ghana, it would improve VRA’s financial position (through combined supplies from WAGP and
domestic sources) but it would still not be sufficient to displace all the LCO used for thermal
generation. In summary, therefore, the current high cost of imported LCO provides a strong
incentive for VRA not to default on its payment obligations for gas supplied through WAGP.




                                                19
5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1      Bank Performance

      (a) Bank Performance in ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

69.     Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
Different alternatives for meeting growing electricity demands in consumer countries were
correctly evaluated, social and environmental mitigation measures were incorporated into project
design, and commercial risks were appropriately identified. The Bank undertook the preparation
and appraisal of the operation in a comprehensive manner to ensure achievement of PDOs,
consistent with the Bank’s fiduciary obligations. The project was (a) in line with the region’s
development priorities; (b) identified major risks and mitigation measures; (c) addressed most
safeguard issues satisfactorily; and (d) integrated lessons learned from previous projects in the
region and countries. The choice of instrument (PRG) was also appropriate as it leveraged an
investment of about $ 1 billion through a PPP arrangement. In terms of shortcomings, the gas
supply risk and the policy changes in Nigeria, which resulted in a greater emphasis on the use of
natural gas in domestic power generation, thereby limiting gas availability for the WAGP in the
short term, were not anticipated during project preparation; nor could they have been easily
mitigated at the time of project appraisal. Finally, the Bank failed to foresee the sharp
international oil price increase and the disruption it would cause on WAGP costs and
implementation time 19.

70.     The reduced gas supply volumes and rising oil prices were hard to anticipate at the time
of project appraisal. Nevertheless, the potential risks associated with the supply of gas, including
the technical, social and governance issues on Nigeria’s ELPS line, could have been more
carefully assessed in terms of the reputational risk for the Bank and the commercial risk for
WAPCo.

      (b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

71.      Bank performance in quality of supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. As
noted in the IP investigation, project supervision during the first year of implementation was not
undertaken rigorously, given the Bank’s reliance on the private sector’s diligence. Following the
IP investigation, Bank management reacted immediately by preparing, a Management Action
Plan (MAP), in cooperation with WAPCo, to address issues identified in the IP Report. As a
result, Bank management and the task team engaged in more intensive supervision and devoted a
lot of time and attention to addressing the specific issues raised by the IP. Two Bank missions
per year, and monthly field visits, during the construction phase were undertaken to improve

19
  There was a greater demand for contractors for oil development projects in oil-producing countries, and hence
incentives for working on complex gas development projects in frontier regions was temporarily reduced


                                                      20
technical and financial supervision and ensure compliance with safety, environmental and social
safeguards policies. A total of 196 staff-weeks on WAGP project supervision were expended, of
which 132 staff-weeks were spent during the period 2007-10 (see Annex 4). Ultimately, all
safety, environmental, and social mitigation measures agreed under the MAP were completed by
the time the project went into commercial operation.

72.     As noted, the PDO was ambitious and did not only depend on the WAGP construction
and operation. The Bank was involved in policy dialogue in the energy sector in all four
countries during project implementation. In Ghana, Togo, and Benin, this included monitoring
the financial status of the sector including regular payments for gas. The Bank team interacted
intensively with the authorities in Nigeria to help assure contracted supplies for WAGP. The
Bank could arguably have done more to bring together gas suppliers and off-takers around the
issues of gas availability, and help revise and enforce the incentive structures for WAPCo
suppliers and off-takers. However, it is still doubtful whether this gas supply risk could have
been mitigated significantly, other than through dialogue at the regional political level.

      (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.     Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This rating combines the
Bank performance rating in ensuring quality at entry (MS) and the Bank performance rating for
quality of supervision (MU). The overall rating takes into account that the supervision improved
considerably after the Inspection Panel case in 2007. The rating takes into account that the main
factors causing less than contracted gas supplies (e.g. low gas supplies from Nigeria and the
temporary rupture in the gas pipeline) were clearly outside the control of the Bank team.

5.2      Borrower Performance

74.    There is no Borrower under this project (as is usually the case in Investment Lending
operations), but, instead, beneficiaries of the PRG. The principal beneficiary is WAPCo, which
is covered against the payment risk of VRA for the transport of gas through WAGP. The
following paragraphs will, therefore, assess the performance of the four participating
governments and of WAPCo.

      (a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.     Overall, the performance of the four participating governments in ensuring gas supply
and improving sector performance has been mixed and is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This
rating is a composite of the performance of the four participating governments. All four
governments have remained committed to implementing the project despite project delays and
consequent cost escalation as the principal stakeholders (through NNPC, VRA and CEB). On the
off-taker side, the Government of Ghana has ensured that VRA always met its payment
obligations to gas suppliers. On the other hand, despite the existence of a contractual framework

                                               21
envisaged to bring commercial discipline, VRA and CEB were reluctant to invoke the pertinent
clauses of their supply contracts, and instead have been relying on the goodwill of N-Gas to
provide whatever gas volumes it could.

     (b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

76.     WAPCo was the implementing agency for WAGP and beneficiary of the IDA PRG, and
its performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. This assessment is based on the actions
taken (or not taken) and the timeliness of such actions, to ensure that the project met its
development objectives and stated outputs, as well as met the safeguard obligations. The
assessment also acknowledges that some factors that affected the outcome of WAGP were
outside the control of WAPCo. However, two key factors – construction delays and the final
cost of the project - were within the control of WAPCo. Also, had WAPCo given early priority
to the social and community buy-in concerns, the initial problems in the implementation of social
safeguards might have been prevented. There were costly failures relating to: (a) adherence to
the hydrotest water discharge protocols in Ghana; (b) compliance with the RAP especially
relating to compensation payment, consultation and livelihood restoration; and (c) putting in
place an information system for safeguards monitoring. The safeguards team of WAPCo was not
trained to handle the critical risks, especially along the pipeline right-of-way in Nigeria. The
weak performance in the main construction contracts could also have been addressed earlier. It
should be noted that WAPco’s performance improved later in the project implementation period.

     (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

77.     Overall Borrower performance rating is considered Moderately Satisfactory. Strong
commitment of all four countries to this regional infrastructure investment (including that the
main regional body, ECOWAS), the sustained commitment of VRA to ensure payments for the
gas Ghana received, and the improved supervision of safeguards obligations offset the early
weaknesses in implementation performance noted above. The rating also takes into account the
lack of proactivity of the FGN in attempting to resolve gas supply bottlenecks. Finally,
international cost escalation of the investment itself in the aftermath of the global financial crisis
from 2007-2008 was largely outside of the control of the four participating countries.

6.      Lessons Learned

78.     Attention should be paid to both supply and demand-side risks in regional infrastructure
investments. A key lesson for cross-border energy projects is that both supply-side and demand
side risks need to be carefully assessed and their potential impact quantified. The WAGP project
was well defined and prepared with appropriate commercial risk mitigation for payment
obligations for the purchase of gas purchased. Risk mitigation measures were then defined within
the scope and control of the project. However, the supply side risks, i.e. helping assure
uninterrupted gas supplies from Nigeria, did not receive the same attention, despite the potential
for jeopardizing the project development objectives. Even though a gas supply agreement was
agreed to contractually, it has proved unenforceable in practice, due to the lack of practical

                                                 22
sanctions in the face of a competing need for this gas supply in Nigeria’s rapidly expanding
domestic gas market.

79.     Assessment of Risk in operations involving Public-Private Partnerships (PPP). In
operations involving a PPP, the objectives of the governments and those of the private sector
partners are not identical. The PAD listed a number of risks to the project objectives and rated
‘payment obligations to N-gas by VRA (and CEB) – correctly - as a ‘Substantial’ risk. The main
focus of the risk section in the PAD was on risks to the project economics and finances, which
were critical for the participation of the private oil companies. However, risks to the two main
PDO’s of ‘improving the competitiveness of the energy sectors in Ghana, Benin and Togo’ and
‘fostering regional economic and political integration’ were less clearly identified. For example,
a regional infrastructure investment necessarily requires a close dialogue with participating
countries to be successful, including with Nigeria, the supplier of natural gas. The main lesson
emerging from this regional PPP is that risk analysis should typically go beyond risks faced by
the private partners, and should focus directly on the specific risks to the PDOs.

80.     Importance of a careful assessment of political, community, and social issues in large
infrastructure investments. The high risks associated with political and social issues in the oil
and gas sector in Nigeria, and in the region more generally, were known at the time of project
preparation. While the up-front work had identified these risks and prepared mitigation
measures, WAPCo’s lack of familiarity with the chieftaincy issues in Nigeria, as well as with
Bank policies on social safeguards, was not adequately taken into account. This became evident
later during preparation of the initial phase of the RAP, as did problems with land and asset
valuation. The clear lesson learned from the IP showed that special attention should have been
given to these issues during the early days of construction. As shown in other large-scale
infrastructure projects, attention to implementation of safeguard measures must be a critical
focus of attention, including securing the participation and buy-in of directly affected
communities. The up-front work at the time of appraisal had identified key risks and prepared
mitigation measures. However, the follow up on these risks by WAPCo and the Bank team was
hampered by the fact that personnel changes during the transition from preparation to
construction phase caused extensive safeguards work to be neglected in the field. Special
attention should have been given to this aspect during the early days of construction. If the
implementation of safeguard measures is delayed, the construction and overall implementation
schedule for the project should be adjusted accordingly.

81.     The institutional framework for large multi-country projects like WAGP requires a
careful balancing of interests and responsibilities of different stakeholders. In this case, there
were strong interests of: (a) gas producing oil companies (Chevron, Shell, NNPC) to supply gas,
including associated gas, which was hitherto being flared, to the West African regional market;
(b) governments of the four participating countries which have an interest in balancing the
domestic needs and exports (or imports); (c) NGC as the owner of ELPS to deliver gas from
suppliers in Niger Delta to a tie-in point at Itoki (near Lagos), and earn the transportation charge;
(d) WAPCo, owned by the gas suppliers and foundation customers (VRA, CEB), which has an
interest in maximizing the use of pipeline capacity and earn the transportation tariff; and (e)
foundation customers who have an interest in receiving the contracted volume of gas in order to



                                                 23
substitute liquid fuels. The risks, responsibilities and incentives of all these stakeholders need to
be appropriately allocated for the success of the project.

82.      The scope and conduct of supervision of a transformational regional project should be
comprehensive regardless of the instrument used and amount of Bank support. The operation
consisted of a relatively small PRG to one country which leveraged financing for a four country
transformational infrastructure investment. While this kind of leverage is laudable, it requires an
adjustment in how the Bank’s prepares and supervises operations. Supervision was often
focused on the physical aspects of the project (e.g. construction, safeguards) and less on the
underlying regional dynamics of creating a gas market. During preparation and the early phases
of supervision, this regional project lacked clear country ownership within the Bank. The
supervision of the project was not given priority during the first 18 months following Board
approval, reflected in the low supervision budget, until a request for an Inspection Panel review
was registered in April 2006. Implementation support at this time focused mainly on the
financial closure aspects of the transaction. The lack of clear country ownership in the Africa
region during preparation and early supervision phases made it difficult to initiate a dialogue on
regional energy investments, taking action to help assure gas supplies from Nigeria for the
WAGP, and, more generally, discussing the particular institutional and policy needs of regional
infrastructure investments. Many of these lessons from the preparation and early implementation
of the WAGP have already been incorporated by the Bank in the past years. An African regional
projects department has been created, which has since helped bring a stronger focus to cross-
boundary issues. Also, at the time of the WAGP project, the use of PRGs was still an exception,
as was working across the World Bank Group. Joint WBG support and the use of PRGs have
both taken off in the energy sector in Africa since WAGP, building on the early pioneering work
of the WAGP team. In general, when the WBG engages in these inherently risky
transformational operations, it should place its full weight behind the operation, particularly
during the implementation phase, leveraging its political weight within the countries as well as
its financial and technical resources to increase the chances of success.

83.     Economic and financial evaluations should assume a wider range of commodity prices
and other variables. While the economic and financial analysis at appraisal was thorough, a
more extensive sensitivity analysis 20 could have been carried out (especially to assess the
cumulative impacts of different risks and variables). This is particularly important for large-scale
infrastructure projects that are sensitive to project delays and associated cost increases. Also, the
risk analysis should be applied to risks that cannot readily be mitigated- such as a single source
gas supplier- and constitute an explicit part of the financing decision for large-scale
infrastructure projects.

84.     Capital intensive, cross-border energy infrastructure projects should have stronger
commercial underpinnings. The WAGP was conceived as an ECOWAS initiative, with Nigeria
playing a dominant role in exporting natural gas to its smaller neighbors in the region. The
project, therefore, had strong regional political support. However, while an elaborate contractual
framework was developed, the commercial provisions were rarely enforced by the signing

20
  The PAD assumptions consider a range of crude oil prices only +/- 10% from the then current crude price. Actual
crude price rose by 400% within four years of project appraisal.


                                                       24
parties. At the time of project sanction, WAGP prices were very attractive relative to domestic
process. The main lesson is that upstream gas prices should be structured so that gas exports
maintain their competitiveness vis-à-vis competing domestic sales.

7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

      (a) Borrower/implementing agencies

85.      See Comments from WAPCo in Annex 7.

      (b) Co-financiers

86.      Not Applicable.

      (c) Other partners and stakeholders

 87.     None received.




                                              25
                                     Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a)       Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                          Appraisal Estimate      Actual /Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
              Components
                                            (US$ million)             (US$ million)
EPC Contracts                                      517.7
Development costs                                   71.9
                    Total Baseline Cost            589.6                  950.0                       152.5

   (b)       Financing

   The entire Project was estimated to cost about US$ 590 million. The International Development
   Association (IDA) provided a guarantee, in the amount of US$ 50 million, for certain obligations
   of the Republic of Ghana related to the purchase of natural gas. Also, the Multilateral Investment
   Guarantee Agency (MIGA) provided a US$ 75 million political risk guarantee to WAPCo in
   relation to the construction of the pipeline and associated facilities. WAPCo is also the
   beneficiary of similar insurance structures from Zurich (with reinsurance from OPIC) to back the
   payment obligations of the Governments of Ghana, Togo and Benin.

                                                         Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                                                 Percentage of
        Source of Funds     Type of Financing            Estimate              Estimate
                                                                                                  Appraisal
                                                       (US$ million)        (US$ million)
   Govt. of Ghana           Equity                          28.8             28.8                  100.00
   NNPC                                                     44.2             44.2                  100.00
   CNL                                                      64.9             64.9                  100.00
   SPDC                                                     31.8             31.8                  100.00
   SoBeGaz                                                   3.5               3.5                 100.00
   SoToGaz                                                   3.5               3.5                 100.00
   Govt. of Ghana           Shareholder Loans 21            67.3            117.9                  175.19
   NNPC                     Shareholder Loans              103.2            180.8                  175.19
   CNL                      Shareholder Loans              151.5            265.4                  175.19
   SPDC                     Shareholder Loans               74.3            130.2                  175.23
   SoBeGaz                  Shareholder Loans                8.3              14.5                 174.70
   SoToGaz                  Shareholder Loans                8.3              14.5                 174.70
   Others                   Shareholder Loans                  ‘             50.0
                                                           589.6            950.0                  161.13

   (c)       Disbursement Profile

         Not Applicable



   21
     The WAPCo Business Plan 2014-18 supports assumptions that cost overruns and repairs to the pipeline associated
   with the force majeure event in 2012 were paid through additional share holder loans. The Plan indicates that
   shareholder loans now amount to nearly 85% of investments versus 70% at the time of project appraisal.


                                                           26
                                  Annex 2. Project Outputs

Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Target Indicators

1.    Achievement of PDO. Under the economic, physical and institutional and regulatory
outcome indicators, following specific targets were defined in the Results Framework:

   •   Indicator-1: Decrease in the average wholesale cost of electricity supply in Ghana, Benin,
       and Togo compared to the "without gas" scenario. It was envisaged that the cost of
       electricity production in Ghana would be reduced by 10-20% and in Togo and Benin by
       40% in 2008, as compared with status quo.

   •   Indicator-2: Physical completion of the regional gas pipeline and of spurs into Ghana,
       Benin, and Togo, including main connections to target power plants. This was to be
       manifested by WAPCo passing its performance testing (Completion certificate) by end
       CY 2006, and delivering forecast quantities of natural gas each year starting in 2007,
       within specifications, at the delivery points in Ghana, Togo and Benin.

   •   Indicator-3: Number of large, medium and small gas customers in Benin Ghana and
       Togo. While no specific target was set, it was envisaged that with increased gas supplies,
       the number of customers would keep increasing year-by-year.

   •   Indicator-4: Expanded volume of energy trade in the region, measured in terms of: (a) gas
       exports from Nigeria; (b) decrease in the use of oil-fired thermal plants in 2008; and (c)
       reduction of flaring and venting of AG in Nigeria by 200 MMscf /day by 2008.

   •   Indicator-5: Harmonization of the regional institutional, legal, and regulatory framework
       to increase private sector participation in the gas sector.

2.      Decrease in wholesale generation cost in Ghana. With the availability of natural gas, the
wholesale unit generation cost has been decreasing since 2009 (see Table-1). For 2011, the
weighted-average generation cost is estimated at 6.98 USc/kWh, an overall reduction of 14%
from the previous year. The supply of natural gas has had a favorable financial impact on the
viability of the power sector as well, as the fuel bill went down when gas was available and
consumed. In 2011, Ghana received the largest volume of gas, and supplies were steady till
August 2012 when a third party pipeline breach occurred, resulting in the suspension of
operations for 10 months. Ghana’s fuel bill for power generation decreased by $100 million in
2011 (from $527 million in 2010 to $427 million in 2011) even though 468 GWh of additional
thermal generation took place during the year.




                                               27
                                            Table-1: Electricity Generation in Ghana

                                                              Fuel                                                               Wholesale
                              LCO       Unit Fuel Price
             Natural                                          Bill                 Electricity Generation (GWh)                    Unit
                               for      ($/MBtu & bbl)
 Year        Gas                                              ($ m)                             Thermal                 Grand    Cost***
                             Power
             (MMBtu)                                          Gas+       Hydro                                          Total    (c/kWh)
                             (000 t)    Gas        LCO*                              Gas**       LCO       Total
                                                              LCO
 2005                   0     322.0       0.00       56.64      137         5629            0     1159       1159        6,788               5.61
 2006                   0     750.6       0.00       66.05       372        5619            0     2811       2811        8,430              10.00
 2007                   0     811.2       0.00       72.34       440        3727            0     3251       3251        6,978              13.58
 2008                   0     579.1      0.00        99.67       433        6195            0     2129       2129        8,324               7.91
 2009            197.98       541.4       7.00       61.95       253       6,877        226      1,855       2081        8,958               6.84
 2010         15,616.65       700.5       7.00       79.48       527       6,996        783      2,388       3171       10,167               8.11
 2011         30,524.56       257.4       8.00       94.88       427       7,561       1842      1,797       3639       11,200               6.98
 2012         15,491.67       703.7       8.50       94.05       628       8,071       1519      2,434       3953       12,024               7.73
* EIA historical crude oil prices from www. useconomy.about.com/od/economic indicators/p/Crude_Oil.htm; 7.5 bbl per ton
**Sunon-Asogli and Tema2 (gas only), and 50% of TAPCO (assumed)
*** Hydro generation cost - USc 1/kWh; thermal generation on gas – USc 11/kWh; thermal generation on LCO – Usc 28/kWh 22
Source: National Energy Statistics 2000-12, Energy Commission of Ghana, July 2013


3.     Impact of gas supply on the operations in Benin and Togo. The situation in Benin and
Togo is similar to Ghana, and the impact of supply of gas to CEB since 2011 has been favorable
in reducing the use of liquid fuels (Heavy Fuel Oil; Jet fuel) for thermal generation, and hence
reducing costs (Table-2). Electricity generation using natural gas was the highest in 2012 till the
pipeline breach in August 2012, and also picked up since the pipeline was repaired by mid-2013.
The weighted-average unit cost of generation has come down in 2012 to 60.62 FCFA/KWh from
69.04 FCFA/KWh in 2011, a reduction of about 12%, even with reduced hydro availability.

                                   Table-2: Electricity Generation in Benin and Togo

     Description                                                                     2010          2011            2012          2013
 Generation (GWh):
 Hydro                                                                                185           202            165                74
 Thermal - Liquid Fuels                                                                36             4           0.22                 4
 Thermal - Natural Gas                                                                  0            40             98                83
 Total                                                                                221           246         263.22               161
 Fuel for thermal plants:
 Liquid fuel (000 liters)                                                          11,030         1,272            70           1,309
 Natural gas (MMbtu)                                                                    0       409,096      1907,782        1687,120
 Unit cost of generation (FCFA/KWh):
 Hydro                                                                              11.70         14.69          13.26               n.a.
 Thermal - TAG de Lomé Port (HFO, gas) Plant                                       122.70       130.00*        140.18*               n.a.
 Thermal -TAG de Cotonou Vèdoko (Jet fuel, gas)                                    n.a.           -              -               -
 CEB weighted-average (hydro+thermal)                                               -             69.04          60.62               n.a.
 Source: Communaute Electrique du Benin (CEB), Direction du Transport, SSTME                      * calculated / estimates



22
     Ghana Power Sector Financial Review (June 2013), World Bank Internal Paper



                                                                    28
4.       Progress on development indicators. The onshore and offshore pipelines, lateral spurs,
and main connections to the target power plants have all been completed, and free-flow gas has
been supplied since April 2009. However, due to supply limitations in Nigeria, the forecast
quantities have not been supplied on a sustained basis to the foundation customers in Ghana,
Togo and Benin.

5.       The operation of this regional gas pipeline is nevertheless underpinned by commercial
contracts and governed by a regional regulatory authority. WAGPA has been established
through the signing of WAGP Treaty and the International Project Agreement, and was actively
involved in project monitoring during the construction phase. It has undertaken and harmonized
the institutional and regulatory framework in the four countries, and has developed and
implemented the following: (a) WAGP Regulations; (b) the Pipeline Development Plan; (c)
Access Code; (d) commercial Agreements; and (e) rules of procedures for dispute resolution.
The pipeline has been operational with adequate regulatory oversight has also been achieved.
WAGP has emerged as an important gas infrastructure investment that may be used to support
expanded trade in the ECOWAS region, as new gas reserves and domestic supply infrastructure
are developed in Nigeria and in other countries (e.g. Ghana).
6.      Contribution to reduction in gas flaring. Since 2006, flaring in Nigeria has been reduced
by about 50% to about 1200 MMscf/day in 2012 due largely to the implementation of a number
of different gas utilization projects. During 2010-12 when WAGP became operational, flaring
was reduced by about 200 MMscf/day by utilizing associated gas for domestic consumption.
However, since WAGP derives its gas supply from both AG and non-AG sources, and the
volume shipped is still small, its contribution to the reduction of gas flaring in Nigeria is
modest.

                   Figure 1: Reduction in gas flaring in Nigeria during 2006-12




               Source: Nigeria Department of Petroleum Resources Website (www.dprnigeria.org.ng)




                                                            29
Compliance with environmental and social safeguards

7.     Overall. The ICR team has met with local communities and community leaders in
Badagry, Cotonou, Lome, Tema and Takoradi; environmental agencies in Nigeria, Benin and
Ghana; and with local and corporate community development officers of the WAPCo to
determine the current state of compliance regarding environmental issues and WAGP’s
community development plan. The following results were determined:

        a. All environmental actions under the Management Action Plan (MAP) have been
           completed, and regular monitoring is ongoing.
        b. All outstanding resettlement claims (Nigeria and Togo) have been resolved.
           Payments have been made and all documents have been fully executed and are on file
           at WAPCo headquarters.
        c. Almost all social development projects have been completed and officially handed
           over to local communities for use and continued care (including operations funding,
           staffing and maintenance) as appropriate 23.
        d. The personal relationships between the local communities and WAPCo were
           observed to be ‘good to excellent’.
        e. It was observed that clear lines of communication have been established between
           community leaders or special purpose community committees and WAPCo local
           community relation coordinators.
        f. WAPCo managers and executives also meet on a periodic basis with local community
           leadership.

8.     Real benefits to the community have been observed. Major projects include educational,
medical, water and sanitation and community market physical structures and facilities. Meetings
with local communities in Badagry, Cotonou, Lome, Tema and Takoradi confirmed the benefits
described in the following paragraphs.

9.     Education. The addition of 13 new building structures, providing classrooms for primary
school children, have reduced the distance village children must walk by as much as 4 kilometers
each way and in some cases have replaced previous unsafe and poorly ventilated structures. It
was reported that with these capacity additions, the pre-existing primary schools no longer have
had to conduct double sessions, which due to daylight limitations, restricted hours of education.
Enrollment of students has visibly improved 24.

10.    Health. The addition of 7 clinics, additions to existing clinics and modern equipment and
supplies has introduced a critical level of care previously not available or undersupplied to small
communities in the vicinity of the pipeline. Generally staffed with nurses with periodic visits by

23
   Exceptions generally fall into three categories: 1) final finishing touches are underway, awaiting third party
completion and payment; 2) facilities which require electrification by a local distribution company, which is not
under the control of WAPCo; or 3) facilities were completed as per the MOU with the community; however, a scope
change was requested, granted, and completion still ongoing (for example, toilets are being added to an otherwise
fully completed market in Benin).
24
   E.g. enrollment was estimated by an educator to be up approximately 40% in a Takoradi community.


                                                       30
doctors 25, these clinics deliver primary care for common illnesses, triage and stability for major
accidents and critical pre- and post-natal care, and sterile birthing conditions for community
women. The installation of road drainage systems have reduced local flooding, improving area
transportation and removing standing water areas which are potential breeding grounds for
disease bearing insects. Water bore holes and storage facilities have been completed to improve
water quality. These and the addition of toilets in public areas have improved community
sanitation infrastructure.

11.     Livelihood improvement projects. Market stalls have been provided to 3 communities to
improve local commerce, and incentivize SME development. These projects are awaiting final
completion (electrification, installation of toilets, fencing, etc). A quantitative determination of
benefits cannot be made at this time. The creation of a community center in Takoradi has
provided safe and modern facilities for meetings and events. The community commonly rents
the use of this facility to generate income.

12.     Ongoing social development programs. WAPCo faces a continuing post-construction
challenge whereby the magnitude of social programs is intended to be scaled back during
operations phase. This is justified because intrusion in community life has been much less in the
operational phase. In addition, WAPCo’s poor financial health limits its ability to provide a
never-ending list of wants from local communities. The focus of development is on education
and skill development during the operational phase, whereby WAPCo offers limited scholarships
for secondary or higher education, or vocational training. This need was identified as part of its
Public Needs Assessment and appears to be well received by local communities. To date, 165
educational scholarships and 94 technical training grants have been awarded to high potential
children and youths in need at a cost to WAPCo of over $127,000.

13.     ROW and settlement. Encroachment of settlements along pipeline continues to be an
ongoing problem. WAPCo continues to inspect ROW routinely, and encourages communities to
report plans or efforts to build commercial or residential properties on the ROW. WAPCo has
adopted a ROW maintenance policy that supports establishment of footpaths, but otherwise
allows low growth vegetation to reestablish itself to discourage unlawful building on ROW.

Reduction in cost of power generation, increased energy access, and poverty reduction

14.      Improved access and capacity addition. Even though the pipeline has suffered Force
Majeure events, pipeline challenges, and gas supply constraints whereby contract volume
obligations have not been met, real reduction in power generation cost has accrued to the public
utilities in Benin, Togo and Ghana. It is estimated that when fueled by gas, power generation
costs are about 40% of the liquid fuel alternatives. Additionally, the availability of natural gas
has increased the total generation capacity of the region by approximately 250 MW 26.

15.   Impact on poverty reduction. Table-3 provides the sectorial breakdown of energy
consumption in Ghana, which is growing at about 7.2% per annum over the last eight years.

25
     Clinic staff is decided and paid for by the local community
26
     Due to the addition of power generation that runs on natural gas (Sunon Asogli alone in Ghana is 200 MW).


                                                          31
Based on the socio-economic survey, it has been estimated that the incidence of poverty has been
reduced by 5 percentage points during the period 2005-12, and provision of electricity has been
one of the contributing factors. The situation in Benin and Togo is also similar to Ghana.

                               Table-3: Electricity Consumption by Sector in Ghana


                                                   Non-Residential
 Year                         Residential                                     Industrial     Street Lighting   Total
                                                    / Commercial

 2005                                     1,956                   676                2,542               85            5259
 2006                                     2,130                   790                3,593              144            6657
 2007                                     2,094                   802                2,687              137            5720
 2008                                     2,269                   927                2,963              171            6330
 2009                                     2,421                   884                2,921              184            6410
 2010                                     2,738                   966                3,156              264            7124
 2011                                     2,761                 1,041                3,900              274            7976
 2012                                     2,931                 1,153                4,153              315            8552
 Growth (%)                              5.95%                 7.93%                7.26%           20.58%         7.19%
Source: National Energy Statistics 2000-12, Energy Commission of Ghana, July 2013




                                                                   32
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return

1.     Four key variables that influence the economic results have changed significantly since
appraisal: (i) project costs; (ii) commissioning date; (iii) oil prices; and (iv) gas supply from
Nigeria (volumes and value). Other parameters (e.g. O&M costs) have had a comparatively
limited impact on the overall return of the project. Given the continued uncertainty regarding
gas volumes from Nigeria, two supply scenarios were analyzed in the ex-post economic
evaluation of WAGP.

2.      The ‘high’ gas supply scenario assumes that existing gas volumes to Ghana, Benin and
Togo of 80 MMBtu per day will be sustained from 2014 onwards. The results yield a projected
net present value (NPV) of US$1.9 million, and a corresponding economic rate of return (EIRR)
of 18.6%.

3.      The ‘low’ supply scenario assumes that energy reforms and increased private sector
participation in power generation in Nigeria will result in diversion of gas supply to the Nigerian
domestic market, and would reduce supply volumes to WAGP to an average of 60 MMBtu per
day. Nevertheless, the ‘low’ case scenario still yields an NPV of US$1.1 million, and an EIRR of
16.0%.

4.       Despite the adverse impacts of cost increases combined with delays and lower than
anticipated gas supply volume, WAGP remains economically efficient. This is due to the fact
that oil prices at the time of completion of the project were about 4 times higher than anticipated
at appraisal. This has resulted in a corresponding sharp increase in the economic value of gas for
power generation. At appraisal, it was anticipated that natural gas would reduce fuel costs by
about 25% compared to LCO, corresponding to a saving of about 1.5USc/kWh. With the sharp
increase in LCO prices, the saving is currently about 15 USc/kWh for a single cycle power plant.

Net Present value/Financial Rate of Return

5.      An ex-post financial evaluation, consistent with the economic scenarios, was undertaken
to assess the financial sustainability of WAGP. The results have been influenced by changes in:
(i) project costs; (ii) commissioning date; (iii) transportation tariff; and (iv) gas supply volume.

6.      The pipeline project profitability has been reduced by cost overruns, delays in
commissioning, and lower gas volumes. However, transportation tariffs for WAGP (as
determined by WAGPA) have been adjusted upwards - at somewhat higher levels than originally
anticipated.

7.     The financial results indicate a financial rate of return (FIRR) before financing and
corporate taxation of 4.4%and 0.9% for the high and low gas supply scenarios, respectively.
Both results are significantly below the estimated weighted average Cost of capital (WACC) of
15%. WAPCo’s future cash flows and profitability are very sensitive to the volumes of gas
transported through the pipeline.

                                                33
8.      The results show that WAPCo will be unlikely to sustain operations and service the
financial debt contracted with its shareholders (at a rate of 10%, with an additional tranche at
15%).

9.     WAPCo would also have limited ability to raise commercial financing for future
investment needs. Significant debt restructuring will be required to maintain and sustain
operation in the longer run.

Conclusions

10.     The increase in oil prices since 2004 has considerably changed the economic and
financial parameters of WAGP. The gas demand and payment risk, which was mitigated by the
PRG, turned out to be a relatively minor issue, given that natural gas has become extremely
valuable for power generation in consumer countries. However, the opportunity cost of gas
exports (estimated at only 2.0 US$/MMBtu, of which only 0.5 US$/MMBtu was the producer
price) has also increased significantly, resulting in a gas supply risk not anticipated at appraisal.
The sharing of the project benefits has also shifted considerably – at the time of appraisal, it was
envisioned that private investors and Nigeria would capture a significant share of the project
economic benefits. The ex-post analysis shows that the off-takers (Ghana, Benin, and Togo) are
major beneficiaries of WAGP due to lower-priced natural gas which displaces expensive liquid
fuel imports.




                                                 34
       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members
        Name                         Title                Unit   Responsibility/Speciality
Lending

Michael Layec            Lead Energy Economist          AFTEG    Task Team Leader
Scott Sinclair           Lead Financial Officer         IEF      Financial Management
Pankaj Gupta             Sr. Financial Analyst          IEF      Financial Analysis
Thomas E. Walton         Regional Safeguards            AFTSD    Environmental Advisor
                         Coordinator
Michael Silverman        Sr. Counsel                    LEGCF    Legal
Dan Aronson              Consultant                     AFTEG
Erica Hyde               Program Assistant              AFTEG    Administrative
Ignatius Menezes         Consultant                     AFTEG
Lily Wong                Program Assistant              AFTEG
Philippe Benoit          Lead Specialist                AFTEG
V.S. Krishnakumar        Lead Procurement Specialist    AFTPC    Procurement Advisor
Kofi Boateng Agyen       Sr. Operations Officer         AFTPS    Private Sector Specialist
Arbo Bem-Achour          Sr. Social Scientist           AFTS1    Social Development
Robert Robelus           Sr. Environmental              AFTS1    Environmental
                         Assessment Specialist                   Safeguards
Mourad Belguedj          Lead Energy Specialist         COCPO
Sascha Djumena           Sr. Energy Specialist          COCPO    Oil, Gas & Mining
Charlotte Bingham        Sr. Environmental Specialist   ESDQC    Environment
Emanuele Santi           Communications Associate       EXTCD    Communications
Paul Mitchell            Manager                        EXTCD    Communications
Karen Hudes              Sr. Counsel                    LEGAF    Legal
Susan Maslen             Consultant                     LEGCF    Legal
Mohammed Bekhechi        Lead Counsel                   LEGEN    Legal
Supervision
Syed Waqar Haider        Sector Leader                  AFTSN  Task Team Leader
Michael Layec            Lead Energy Economist          AFTEG  Task Team Leader
Vijay S. Iyer            Sector Manager                 AFTEG  Overall supervision
Scott Sinclair           Lead Financial Officer         IEF    Financial Management
Pankaj Gupta             Manager                        TWIFS  Infrastructure Finance
Sunil W. Mathrani        Sr. Energy Specialist          AFTG2  Principal Engineer
Franklin Kofi S.W.       Energy Specialist              AFTG2  Electrical Engineering
Gbedey                                                         Spec.
Robert Michael Lesnick   Consultant                     ASNCS  Petroleum Specialist
David John Santley       Sr. Petroleum Specialist       SCEGM2 Petroleum Specialist
Stephen Lintner          Safeguards Adviser             OPSOR  Safeguards
Alexandra C. Bezeredi    Regional Environmental &       AFTSG  Sr. Operations Advisor
                         Safeguards Advisor
Maria Concepcion J.      Lead Social Development        AFTCS    Sr. Social Scientist

                                             35
Cruz                   Specialist
Chukwudi H. Okafor     Sr. Social Dev Specialist      AFTCS   Social Development
Angela Nyawira         Sr. Social Dev Specialist      ECSSO   Social Development
Khaminwa
Caroline Mary Sage     Sr. Social Dev Specialist      EASID   Social Development
Mohamed Arbi Ben-      Consultant                     AFTCS   Social Development
Achour
Dan Aronson            Consultant                     AFTCS   Social Development
Shobba Shetty          Sector Leader, SDN             SASDL   Rural Development
Thomas Walton          Environmental Consultant       AFTEN   Environmental Adviser
Amos Abu               Sr. Environmental Specialist   AFTN1   Environmentalist
Moses Yao Duphey       Consultant                     AFTN3   Environment/Safeguards
Michael R. Silverman   Consultant                     LEGEN   Legal
Stephan Dreyhaupt      Program Manager                MIGES   Guarantee Supervision
Abir Burgul            Senior underwriter             MIGOP   Guarantee Specialist
Cherian Samuel         Lead Evaluation Specialist     MIGES   Evaluation
Deniz Baharoglu        Social Development             MIGEP   Social Development
                       Specialist
Robert McDonough       Consultant                     MIGEP   Safeguards
Pepita Hortense C.     Program Assistant              AFMBJ   Administrative
Olympio
Brenda Uche            Program Assistant              AFCW2   Administrative
Anugwom
Esinam Hlomador-       Program Assistant              AFCTG   Administrative
Lawson
Geraldine Agnes        Team Assistant                 AFCW1   Administrative
Wilson
Ayishetu Terewina      Program Assistant              AFCW1   Administrative




                                             36
      (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                      US$ Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
             Lending
              FY03                                10.98                          74.83
              FY04                                83.16                         586.61
              FY05                                67.56                         450.67
              FY06                                 1.12                           7.61
             Total:                           162.82                            1,119.72
         Supervision/ICR
              FY05                              1.60                              14.84
              FY06                             14.52                              75.44
              FY07                             39.91                             367.47
              FY08                             41.65                             413.41
              FY09                             26.39                             288.72
              FY10                             24.89                             187.28
              FY11                             17.65                             118.14
              FY12                             16.24                             224.60
              FY13                              4.50                              22.47
              FY14                              8.48                             101.51
             Total:                           195.83                            1,813.88

      (c) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
          Date ISR
No.                              DO                            IP                 Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                       N/A
 1       18 Apr 2008        Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
 2       30 May 2008    Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.00
 3       07 Oct 2008    Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
 4       19 Dec 2008    Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.00
 5       03 Sep 2009    Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.00
 6       05 Jun 2010        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
 7       23 Dec 2010        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
 8       14 Sep 2011        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
 9       23 May 2012        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
10       18 Mar 2013        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00




                                              37
                    Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No Beneficiary Survey was conducted under the project.




                                      38
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

      No Stakeholder Workshops were organized to discuss the lessons learnt in the
implementation of WAGP project.




                                       39
          Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

          (From: Jeremy Nelson, GM Commercial & Business Development, WAPCo)

1.     The World Bank’s support for the WAGP which began at the conception of the project
contributed to the linking of different components of the WAGP value chain— gas suppliers and
processors, gas shippers, power-plant operators, power distributors and end users. Its embrace
made the project a reality. Putting its credibility behind some key ideas behind the construction
of the WAGP, the Bank supported the argument that the WAGP would help reduce the waste of
valuable resources and generate new revenue for the supplier and consuming countries. Indeed, a
1993 study partly supported by the World Bank projected that replacing crude oil and other fuels
with natural gas could save about $500 million over 20 years.

2.      The Bank’s perseverance in helping to move the pipeline project to a construction reality
was remarkable. But the initial prospects of the WAGP lied significantly in its potential to
proceed on a fully commercial basis. Through the Bank’s leadership, the four WAGP States
established a fiscal and regulatory framework for the project, using its influence to create an
enabling environment for a commercial path for the WAGP.

3.      The Bank’s writing of a $50 million PRI coverage proved a genuine financial
commitment to the WAGP. Although a claim was never paid, the coverage was critical in
mitigating the threat of political perils that could potentially undercut the needed private
investment in three politically vulnerable countries. This shielded shareholders from the financial
consequences of political turmoil making investment in the WAGP less dangerous and more
appealing.

4.      The Bank’s performance proved that the WAGP was precisely the sort of involvement
where its approach could create value, bringing a framework of environmental and social
safeguards to bear on a highly novel initiative. Its seal of approval, added credibility to a project
run by an industry with a history of turbulent community relations in the sub region. Its
participation and willingness to listen to community stakeholders provided an added and
independent forum where people impacted by the project could voice concerns and seek redress.

5.      As a credible third party the Bank played a critical role in addressing community
concerns about compensation payments and project impacts in host communities. In
communities in Nigeria and Benin where the WAGP faced the strongest resistance, the
intervention of the World Bank was instrumental in calming such resistance and fears. Its
involvement also encouraged active participation of local stakeholders including governments,
political leaderships and regulatory institutions whose support was critical to the success of the
project.

Lessons learned

6.      The construction schedule of the WAGP called for the completion of the pipeline in
stages with completion scheduled for early part of 2007. However, full installation did not occur
until 2011 due to construction realities which caused schedule slippage. The delay among other

                                                 40
things made the initial cost estimates of the project appear too optimistic. Looking back, initial
project cost estimates should have had adequate room for overcoming unforeseen construction
problems that come with a project the magnitude of the WAGP.

7.      Although the WAGP Treaty had been signed prior to construction, the consensus process
with the various WAGP states was arduous and time consuming in several fronts. It was difficult
to secure additional funding from the government owned shareholders when it became necessary
during the last months of the construction period. These entities seemed unprepared to deal with
the additional cost relating to cost overruns and financial risks that come with projects with the
magnitude of the WAGP. In the future, government stakeholders must be made to understand
such risks and their responsibility to shoulder them when it becomes necessary.

8.      The necessity for trust and communication between the project team and community
stakeholders was critical. The initial untrusting nature of the relationship between the WAGP and
community stakeholders mainly in Nigeria and Benin spawned misunderstanding and doubts
about motives, slowing early negotiations and conversations. One key lesson was the critical
importance of community and political leaderships in addressing local resistance and building
trust among local stakeholders whose support was crucial to the success of the project. The
important role played by political leaderships in the four countries helped significantly in
allaying fears and correcting misconceptions about the real objectives of the project.

9.      During the compensation process for land and crops, there were indeed key challenges
not unexpected of a novel and regional project like the WAGP. The World Bank’s interventions
provided ready succor to otherwise critical situations and with their resolution also heralded
important lessons for facilitators of similar regional engagements in the future. In Nigeria, the
use of third party intermediaries like agents and consultants in the compensation process denied
many genuine land owners of their rightful compensation thereby questioning the transparency
of the entire process. This had to be rectified eventually, but rather belatedly after a lot of
legitimate questions had been raised about the entire compensation process in Nigeria.

10.     The Bank’s social approach as regards the WAGP highlighted ‘best practice’
recommendations with minimal attention to the WAGP context. Although best practice
directives from the Bank prescribed for land and crop compensation proved useful and
appropriate, pre-specified recommendations on ‘livelihood restoration’ ‘vulnerable groups and
‘sustainable financing’ lacked legitimacy given the WAGP’s land acquisition peculiarities.




                                               41
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable since the Project did not have Cofinanciers.




                                       42
                         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Background Project Documents:
1. West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP), Project Appraisal Document, November 2004.
2. WAGP Access Code, December 2004.
3. WAGP Guarantee Agreement, December 2004.
4. WAGP Indemnity Agreement, December 2004.
5. WAGP International Project Agreement, December 2004.
6. Project Description, Project Finance and Guarantees Group Brochure, January 2005.
7. WAGP: Assessment of the Quality at Entry, Quality Assurance Group, September 2006.

Environmental Assessment and Safety:
8. Independent Integrity Review of Escravos – Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS), Penspen, 2001.
9. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study and accompanying Environmental and Social
    Management Plan (ESMP) for Nigeria, Benin, Togo and Ghana, 2004.
10. Rapport de L’audience Publique Informative Sur Le Rapport D’etude D’impact Sur
    L’environnement, Du Projet De Gazoduc De L’afrique De L’ouest, Lomé, March 2004.
11. Terms of Reference for Independent Auditing and Reporting for all Measures in the WAGP
    Environmental Management Plan, January 2006.
12. WAGP Health, Environment, Safety and Security (HESS) Management Plan, May 2006.
13. Field Report: Takoradi Thermal Power Plant Oil Spill, September 2007.
14. Consultant Reports on Emergency Preparedness Exercises, March 2008.
15. Plan de Gestion Environniementale du Pro.Jet de Trenching et D'enterrement Du Gazoduc
    De L’afrique De L’ouest, April 2008.
16. WAPCO Environmental Management Workshop, September 2008.
17. Ghana ESMP Addendum for Rock Berm Installation and Decommissioning at Takoradi and
    Tema, March 2009.
18. WAGP-Tema Onshore Construction and Environmental Monitoring Report, August 2009.
19. VRA Takoradi Power Station Procedures for Emergency Fire Control, December 2010.
20. Shoreline Monitoring at Tema and Takoradi, Ghana, January 2011.
21. Heath Environment and Safety (HES) Drill Report at Takoradi, December 2011.

Environmental and Social Advisory Panel:
22. Environmental and Social Advisory Panel (ESAP) Report on WAGP, Mission 1, November
    2007.
23. ESAP Report on WAGP, Mission 2, November 2008.
24. ESAP Report on WAGP, Mission 3, October 2011.

Inspection Panel:
25. WAGP Notice of Registration of Request for Inspection, May 2006.
26. WAGP Bank Management Response to Request for Inspection Panel, June 2006.
27. WAGP Final Eligibility Report and Recommendation on Request for Inspection, July 2006.
28. WAGP Investigation Report, April 2008.
29. WAGP Management Report and Recommendation, June 2008.
30. Progress Report 1 on the implementation of WAGP Management Action Plan, Dec 2008.
31. Progress Report 2 on the implementation of WAGP Management Action Plan, Dec 2009.

                                            43
32. Progress Report 3 on the implementation of WAGP Management Action Plan, March 2011.
33. Progress Report 4 on the implementation of WAGP Management Action Plan, March 2012.
34. Progress Report 5 on the implementation of WAGP Management Action Plan, June 2014.

Social Impact and Mitigation:
35. WAGP Synthesis Report of Participating Countries, Institute of Statistical, Social and
    Economic Research (ISSER), September 2002.
36. Ghana Estate Survey and Valuation Assessment, September 2003.
37. Nigeria Estate Survey and Valuation Assessment, October 2003.
38. Togo Estate Survey and Valuation Assessment, October 2003.
39. Benin Estate Survey and Valuation Assessment, March 2004.
40. WAGP Resettlement Action Plan – Nigeria, Ghana, Benin and Togo, June 2004.
41. Terms of Reference for Independent Third Party Auditing of the WAGP Resettlement Action
    Plan, September 2006.
42. WAGP Independent External Third Party Audit (ERM) - Resettlement Action Plan and
    Community Development Plans, September 2007.
43. Compensation Rates for Economic Crops and Trees recommended by Nigeria OPTS,
    December 2007.
44. Valuation Re-study for Real Property Assets acquired along the pipeline route in Ogun and
    Lagos States, December 2007.
45. WAPCo 2007 Community Relations Annual Report, January 2008.
46. Agronomic and price survey of food and tree crops along WAPCO’s pipeline route in Ogun
    and Lagos States, February 2008.
47. Socio-Economic Baseline and Livelihood Needs Assessment Survey Design, July 2008.
48. MIGA training on Social Assessment and Investment, August 2008.
49. Nigeria - Top-Up Compensation Sensitization Campaign Report, May 2008.
50. Nigeria – Top-Up Compensation payment – Witness NGO Report, November 2008.
51. Benin - Report on Outstanding Land Compensation payments, November 2008.
52. WAPCo Grievance Redress Mechanism and Complaints Register, December 2008.
53. WAPCo 2008 Community Relations Annual Report, January 2009.
54. WAPCo Baseline and Livelihoods Study in Nigeria, April 2009.
55. WAPCo 2009 Community Relations Annual Report, March 2010.
56. WAPCo Assessment of the impact of completed and functioning Community Development
    Projects (CDPs), September 2010.
57. Participatory Needs Assessment of WAPCo Project Communities, January, 2011.
58. WAPCo 2010 Community Relations Annual Report, February 2011.
59. World Bank training on Livelihood Restoration Strategy and Programs, October 2011.
60. WAPCo Community Relations Quarterly Report, March 2012.
61. WAPCo Community Relations Status Report, October 2013.

Stakeholder Forums:
62. West African Gas Stakeholders Engagement Forum (Accra) Summary Report, March 2012.
63. WAGP Technical Meeting (Lome), List of Participants, May 2012.
64. WAGP Technical Meeting (Abuja), Summary Report, August 2012.
65. WAGP Value Chain Market Forum, Presentation by the Managing Director, February 2014.



                                             44
Utility Statistics:
66. Ghana National Energy Statistics (2001-12), Energy Commission, July 2013.
67. CEB Power Statistics 2013, March 2014.

WAPCo:
68. WAPCo Business Plan 2008-2012, November 2007.
69. WAPCo Business Plan 2014-2018, November 2013.
70. WAPCo presentation to the World Bank Supervision Mission, April 2011.
71. WAPCo Management Accounts, January 2010.

WAPCo Progress Reports:
72. WAGP Project Progress Report, May 2005.
73. WAGP Project Progress Report, June 2005.
74. WAGP Project Progress Report, July 2005.
75. WAGP Project Progress Report, August 2005.
76. WAGP Project Progress Report, September 2005.
77. WAGP Project Progress Report, October 2005.
78. WAGP Project Progress Report, November 2005.
79. WAGP Project Progress Report, December 2005.
80. WAGP Project Progress Report, January 2006.
81. WAGP Project Progress Report, February 2006.
82. WAGP Project Progress Report, March 2006.
83. WAGP Project Progress Report, May 2006.
84. WAGP Project Progress Report, June 2006.
85. WAGP Project Progress Report, July 2006.
86. WAGP Project Progress Report, August 2006.
87. WAGP Project Progress Report, September 2006.
88. WAGP Project Progress Report, October 2006.
89. WAGP Project Progress Report, November 2006.
90. WAGP Project Progress Report, December 2006.
91. WAGP Project Progress Report, January 2007.
92. WAGP Project Progress Report, February 2007.
93. WAGP Project Progress Report, May 2007.
94. WAGP Project Progress Report, June 2007.
95. WAGP Project Progress Report, July 2007.
96. WAGP Project Progress Report, August 2007.
97. WAGP Project Progress Report, October 2007.
98. WAGP Project Progress Report, November 2007.

World Bank Supervision Missions:
99. WAGP Joint MIGA-IDA Safeguards Mission, Aide Memoire, June 2005.
100. WAGP Supervision Mission, Back to Office Report, April 2006.
101. WAGP Supervision Mission, Back to Office Report, May 2007.
102. WAGP Supervision Mission, Back to Office Report, November-December 2007.
103. WAGP Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, May 2008.
104. WAGP Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, December 2008.

                                             45
105.   WAGP Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, July 2009.
106.   WAGP Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, April 2010.
107.   WAGP Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, November 2010.
108.   WAGP Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, August 2011.
109.   WAGP Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, May 2012.
110.   WAGP Supervision Mission, Back to Office Report, February 2013.
111.   WAGP Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, November 2013.




                                             46
Annex 10. MAP




     47
