                                                           44617

                                          ReportNo. INSP2006-0004/4


 International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
          International Development Association




MANAGEMENTREPORTAND RECOMMENDATION

                INRESPONSETOTHE

 INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATIONREPORT




                         GHANA

           West African GasPipelineProject
           (IDA GuaranteeNo. B-006-0-GH)




                       June 27,2008


              MANAGEMENTREPORTAND RECOMMENDATION
   INRESPONSETOTHE INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATIONREPORT
                                          OFTHE
               GHANA: WEST AFRICANGAS PIPELINEPROJECT
                         (IDA GUARANTEENO. B-006-O-GH)



Pursuant to paragraph 23 o f the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRD Resolution
93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by Executive Directors i s
Management's Rmort and Recommendation in response to the findings set out in the
Investigation Report No. 42644-GH dated April 25, 2008, o f the Inspection Panel on the
captioned Project (West African Gas PipelineProject, IDAGuaranteeNo. B-006-O-GH).


              MANAGEMENT REPORTAND RECOMMENDATION
                                       INRESPONSETO THE
         INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATIONREPORTNO.42644-GH
                                                      OFTHE
               GHANA: WEST AFRICANGAS PIPELINEPROJECT
                          (IDA GUARANTEENO. B-006-0-GH)



                                                     CONTENTS

Abbreviations andAcronyms           ............................................................................................     iv
List of Operational Policies and Operational Directives                          .................................................... v
I. Introduction.............................................................................................................          1
11.     Background andStatus of the Project                   .....................................................................   1
111.    FindingsandRecommendationsofthe Panel.........................................................                                4
IV.     SpecialIssues ..........................................................................................................      7
        Introduction............................................................................................................. 7
        Social Issues..........................................................................................................      12
        Environment.......................................................................................................... 21
        Project Supervision     ...............................................................................................      26
V.      Management's Action PlaninResponseto the Findings.....................................                                       28
VI.     Conclusion ............................................................................................................      31


Annexes:
Annex 1. Findings, Comments and Actions
Annex 2. Supervision Missions
Annex 3.    SDEnvironmental andSocial SafeguardsAction Plan
Annex 4. Status ofAgreed Actions (May 2008 Supervision Mission)

Tables
Table 1.    ProposedManagement Action Plan

Maps
Map 1.      IBRD36115-West African GasPipelineProject(Regional)
Map 2.      IBRD36116-West AfXcan GasPipelineProject(Nigeria)




                                                             ...
                                                             111

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline



                           ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS



AG                           Associated gas
ASPEN                        Afkica SafeguardsPolicyEnhancementTeam
Bcm                          Billioncubic meters
BP                           BankProcedures
CDP                          Community Development Program
CEB                          Communautk Electrique duBknin
CLO                          Community Liaison Officer
DPR                          Departmento fPetroleum Resources(Nigeria)
EA                           Environmental Assessment
ECOWAS                       Economic Community o f West Afr-ican States
EIA                          Environmental Impact Assessment
ELPS                         Escravos-LagosPipeline System
EMP                           Environmental ManagementPlan
EPA                          Environmental Protection Agency (Ghana)
ERM                          Environmental ResourcesManagement
ERP                           EmergencyResponsePlan
ESAP                          Environmental and Social Advisory Panel
ESIA                          Environmental and Social ImpactAssessment
FA0                           UnitedNations FoodandAgricultural Organization
GGFR                          Global Gas FlaringReduction
GSA                           Gas Sales Agreement
HDD                           Horizontal Directional Drilling
IDA                           International Development Association
IEG                           IndependentEvaluation Group
IITA                          International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IPN                           InspectionPanel
LEGEN                         Environmentally and Socially SustainableDevelopment
                              and International Law Unit
MIGA                          Multilateral Investment GuaranteeAgency
MMBtu                         MillionBritishthermal unit
MMCF/d                        Million cubic feet per day
MW                            Megawatt
NAG                           Non-associatedgas
NGC                           NigerianGas Company
NGN                          Nigeriannaira
NGO                           Nongovernmental organization
NNPC                         NigerianNational Petroleum Corporation
OMS                           Operational Manual Statement
OP                            Operational Policy
OPCQC                         Operations Policyand Country Services Quality Assurance
                              andCompliance Unit
OPTS                          Oil Producers' Trade Section (Nigeria)
PAD                           Project Appraisal Document
PAP                           ProjectAffected Person


                                             iv

                                                Management Report and Recommendation



PNA                      Participatory NeedsAssessment
PRA                      Participatory Rural Appraisal
RAP                      ResettlementAction Plan
ROW                      RightofWay
SDV                      Social Development Department
TDC                      Tema Development Corporation
TOR                      Terms o fReference
USD                      UnitedStates Dollar
VR4                      Volta RiverAuthority
WAGP                     West African Gas Pipeline
WAGPA                    West African Gas PipelineAuthority
WAPCo                    West African Gas Pipeline Company
WBG                      WorldBankGroup


        LIST OF OPERATIONAL POLICIES/BANK PROCEDURES(oP/BP) AND
                       OPERATIONALDIRECTIVES       (OD)

OPBP 4.01         Environmental Assessment
OPBP 4.12         Involuntary Resettlement
OD 4.15           Poverty Reduction
OP 10.04          Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations
OPBP 13.05        Project Supervision
World BankPolicyon Disclosure ofInformation




                                       V


                                       I. INTRODUCTION

 1.      On April 27, 2006, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ06/03 (hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the West African
 Gas Pipeline Project ("WAGP",                or "the Project"),        for which the International
Development Association (IDA) is providing a Partial Risk Guarantee. The Request for
Inspection was submitted by the Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum of the West
African Gas Pipeline Project (the "Association") through their representatives fkom the
 Olorunda o f the local government area of Lagos State, Nigeria. The Request was
 submitted on behalf of the members of the Association, which is composed of 12
communities affected by the Project around the Badagry area, in Lagos State, southwest
Nigeria (hereafter referredto as the "Requesters").

2.       The Executive Directors and the President o f IDA were notified by the Panel of
receipt o f the Request. The Managementresponded to the claims inthe Request on June
6,2006.

3.       In its Report to the Board on July 7, 2006, the Panel refkained fkom
recommending an investigation. The Panel stated that it expected to be able to make a
determination by end 2006 and noted that this would also allow Managementmore time
to demonstrate that it was taking "adequate steps to follow the Bank's policies and
procedures" as required by the Resolution that established the Panel. The Board
approved the Panel recommendation on July 27, 2006, on a non-objection basis. In its
final Report and Recommendation, dated March 1, 2007, the Panel recommended an
investigation to the Board o f Executive Directors, which was approved on March 13,
2007.

4.       On April 25, 2008, the Panel issued its report outlining the findings o f the
investigation. Management appreciates the Panel's clear and thorough presentation of its
findings. This report responds to the findings of the Panel. Section I1 provides
background and the status o f the Project; Section I11 summarizes the findings o f the
Panel; Section IV addresses special issues emerging from the Panel's investigation
report; Section V includes Management's Action Plan; and Section VI contains the
conclusion. The Panel's findings, along with Management's responses, are described in
detail inAnnex 1.


                11.       BACKGROUNDAND STATUS OFTHE PROJECT

5.       Overview. The Project was designed to contribute to improving the economic
competitiveness o f the participating countries (Nigeria, Togo, Benin, and Ghana) and
acceleratingregional economic growth and integration in West Africa. The Project aims
to provide cheap and efficient fuel to the consuming countries, which will lower their


 The World BankGroup also provided a Multilateral Investment GuaranteeAgency (MIGA) Guaranteefor
the Project, which i s not included inthe InspectionPanelinvestigation. MIGA has a separate processfor
investigating projects, which was not triggered inthis case.


                                                      1

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


cost of power, thereby promoting economic development and improving the
competitiveness of goods and services. The Project complements a separate operation to
develop the West African power market; it is part of the action plan of the New
Partnership for Africa's Development, and is supportedby the Economic Community of
West Afkican States (ECOWAS).

6.      The Project. The West African Gas Pipeline Company (WAPCo), led by
ChevronTexaco, had advised Ghana, Benin, Togo, and Nigeria and the World Bank
Group (WBG) that the Project could only be developedwith appropriate risk mitigation,
in particular with respect to the gas purchase obligations of the Volta River Authority
(VRA)andCommunauteElectriqueduBenin(CEB). Followingtherequestby Ghanafor
an IDA Guaranteeto back Ghana's obligations to the Project, WAPCo considered other
possible sources of risk mitigation for the Project. WAPCo eventually proposed a
combination o f an IDA Guarantee, a Guarantee from the Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and commercial insurance to back the credit risk o f the
Ghana offtaker, VRA, for CEB, including WAPCo insurance coverage from other
sources. Management prepared the Project, consisting of a USD75 million MIGA
Guarantee to WAPCo and a USD5O million IDA Partial Risk Guarantee to the
Government of Ghana. It was approved on November 23, 2004. Total Project costs are
estimated at USD590 million, including investments by the Government o f Ghana
(USD90 million), the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC, USD147
million), Chevron Nigeria Limited (USD216 million), Shell Production Development
Company o f Nigeria Limited (USD106 million), as well as investment options by
SoBeGaz (Benin) and SoToGaz (Togo) (USD12 millioneach).

7.      The IDA Guarantee i s limited incoverage. It guarantees aportion o fthe payments
due by Ghana to WAPCo in connection with its guarantee of VRA's obligations under
the Takoradi Gas Sales Agreement (GSA) inthe event where a failure byVRA to pay the
Nigerian gas purchaser, N-Gas Limited, for gas could result in N-Gas terminating the
Takoradi GSA. The IDA Guarantee does not cover breach o f other obligations
undertakenbyVRA or Ghanaunderthe Project agreements.

8.     Project Development Objectives. The Project i s part of the four West African
states' overall strategy to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, notably by
decreasinginput costs and diversifying fuel supply for the power sector, and encouraging
local industry and enterprises to use cheaper and more environmentally friendly natural
gas.

9.     The Project's benefits include the provision of a more benign energy source, cost
savings to the users, increased tax revenues, and positive implications for regional
economic development through improved competitiveness, and enhanced trade. The
Project would contribute to poverty reduction through the provision o f lower energy
prices which wouldpromote growth.

10.    Project Components. WAGP consists of: (a) a new pipeline system (678
kilometers long) that will transport natural gas from Nigeria to Togo, Benin, and Ghana;
(b) spurs to provide gas to power generating units in Ghana, Benin, and Togo; (c)



                                             2

                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


conversion o f existing power generating units to gas (financed by their owners); and (d)
as neededadditional compressioninvestments. See Maps 1and2.

11.     To meet the expected market potential of about 450 million cubic feet per day
(MMCF/d), the pipeline diameter has been sized at 20 inches. The main trunk o f the
offshore pipeline has been placed on the seabed in 26 to 70 meters o f water at an
approximate distance o f 15 to 20 kilometers from the shore. At three locations,
connections have been made from the main offshore trunk into lateral spurs that will
transport gas to delivery points at or near Cotonou, Benin; Lome, Togo; and Tema,
Ghana. The terminal of the pipeline is at the Takoradi Power Station inGhana. The total
area of land take is estimated at more than 200 hectares, 70 percent o f which i s in
Nigeria, with the land parcels in the right o f way (ROW) affecting some 2,500
households in 23 communities. The land take and affected households in Ghana, Benin
and Togo have been much smaller, as the pipeline traverses only a small part of those
countries' territories (see paragraph32).

12.     The Project has included a number o f contracts for the design, engineering,
construction, ownership, operation and maintenance, oversight, and power purchase
agreements for natural gas from the producers, as well as for the transportation ofnatural
gas bythe shippers, and for the sales ofnatural gas to VRA andCEB.

13.     N-Gas is contracting for the purchases of natural gas at interface points on the
Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS) from the upstreamproducers. The NigerianGas
Company (NGC) will transport gas through the ELPS, and WAPCo will deliver that gas
from the ELPS interface point located inwesternNigeria, and ship it to Togo, Benin, and
Ghana. The Project does not provide any financial or operational support for the
managementand operation o f the ELPS, a separate autonomous entity, nor does it entail
the extractiono fhydrocarbons from the ground.

14.     Overall Progress. At present, progress on construction and installation o f the
pipeline is as follows: (a) installation of the offshore and onshore pipeline has been
completed from Itoki, Nigeria to Takoradi, Ghana; (b) laterals (spur lines) to Cotonou,
Lome andTemahavebeenhydro-tested and are dry, and are now inan advanced stage of
completion; (c) engineering, procurement and some construction work is continuing at
Lagos Beach Compressor Station, pending mobilization o f a new contractor2; (d)
chromatographyworks have successfully been completed, andgas has beenintroduced at
Itoki; (e) some constructiodinstallation works at Takoradi, Tema, Lome and Cotonou
Stations remain to be completed; and (f) rock berms at Takoradi and Tema have been
removed, as per the permitfrom the GhanaEnvironmental ProtectionAgency (EPA).

15.     In addition to physical construction, WAPCo has prepared programs for
comprehensiveadditional compensation to Project Affected Persons (PAPS) whose land
has been appropriated for the pipeline ROW, including the process for payments;
sensitization and consultations with affected households on money management and

 The original construction contract betweenWAPCO and Wilbros Nigeria was terminated inFebruary
2008 due to contractual disputes. New cotractors have beenselectedandarebeing mobilizedto complete
the remainingworks.


                                                    3

Ghana- WestAjPican GasPipeline


small business investments; and ongoing livelihood restoration activities (see paragraphs
22 to 24 below). The program has also establishedthe methodology for additional cash
compensationto PAPs for livelihoodrestoration, basedon updated market rates for land,
crops, and economic trees, which were assessed in2003-2004 and adjusted for inflation
to 2008 prices. The land valuation considered land use for different zones along the
ROW. For crops and economic trees, WAPCo used the most current International
Institute for Tropical Agriculture/United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
(IITNFAO) agricultural prices inNigeria. InMay and June 2008, WAPCo held 15 town
hallhensitization meetings and plans to hold more meetings in each o f the key
communities and clusters of smaller ones to sensitize not only PAPs, but also other
community members and traditional rulers on the additional compensationprogram. The
consultations will help WAPCo veri@ the current status of: (i) ownership; (ii)  land
deceased claimants; and (iii) landdisputes. The master list o f PAPs hasbeen and
                                 pending
will be further updated during the additional compensation process, so as to include
updated information on PAPs and any newly identified claimants. WAPCo has also
agreedto updatethe socio-economic survey, which will be completedby the endof 2008.
The new data to be collected will be used to improve analysis of livelihood needs of
affected and vulnerable PAPS; and will provide inputs to enhancing the Community
Development Programs (CDPs). A second follow-up survey will be undertaken in 2010
to ensure that the impacts and potential impoverishment risks facing local people are
being properly addressed. The CDPs for the first year focused mainly on social
infrastructure (health centers, schools, water supply, etc.) and have mostly been
completed. In parallel, engagement meetings with various communities are being
organized on a continuing basis and the process i s underway to inform the communities
about health, environment and safety aspects o fthe Project.


                             111.    FINDINGSOFTHE PANEL

16.     The Panel made the following findings regarding Bank compliance with its
policies and procedures in relation to the issues raised by the Requesters. Responses to
the findings are contained inAnnex 1inthe form of amatrix that lists eachofthe Panel's
findings andobservationsalong with Management's commentsandclarifications. Section
IVprovides additional information andcontext for the issuesraisedbythe Panel.


                              OPlBP4.12 InvoluntaryResettlement&
                                           -
                                     BankPollcyon Disclosure
             - Managementdid notensurethatthe requisitesocio-economicinformationwas gatheredas
               called for inthe Bank Policy. This does not comply with the Bank`s InvoluntaryResettlement
               Policy(OP 4.12). The Policycallsfor a socio-economic study of the displacedpersons. The
               Policy requirementscannot be met by generaldata on the projectaffected area or
               populationsnor by extrapolationfrom a sample.
NOTIN        - The absenceof adequatebaselineinformationmakes it impossibleto ensurethat the
COMPLIANCE     impactsand potentialimpoverishmentrisksfacing local peopleare properlyaddressed, as
             - required underOP 4.12.
              The complexitiesof the traditional landtenure system, wherein large extendedfamilies
               control land, and headsof familiesdistributeuser rightsamong the members, were not
              adequatelytaken into account. This does not comply with OP 4.12. The size and economic
               holdingsof the extendedfamilies was and still is- unknown.
                                 __ -                --                                      -       __.
                                         -I   - - I                          I_    -.




                                                    4

                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


-    The size of the displacedpopulationseems to be underestimatedas a resultof the
-   methodologyusedfor their identification.
    Bank Managementfailed to ensure that the Sponsor performedan adequateanalysisof
    socio-economic risksto vulnerablepeople. This does notcomply with OP 4.12, and denied
-   these people protectionsprovidedunderthe Policy.
    Management did not ensurethat Projectplannersused reliableand specific data on
    individualsor householdsaffectedbythe ROW, ratherthan assumptions,averages, and
    relatedarguments. As a resultof these flaws in methodology,Projectdocuments presented
    to the Boardat the time of Projectapprovalincludedincorrectand incompleteinformationon
    livelihoodand impoverishment risks.This was inconsistentwith OperationalManual
-   Statement(OMS) 2.20 (ProjectAppraisal)and OP 4.12.
    A land-basedresettlement option, describedas an alternativewithinthe ResettlementAction
    Plan(RAP)and encouraged as a preferencein OP 4.12, was noteffectivelyofferedto the
    displacedpersonsas a viableoptionfor livelihood restoration.This is inconsistentwith the
-   provisionsand objectivesof OP 4.12.
    The RAPtransferredthe burden for restorationof livelihoodonto displacedpersons, once
    they had obtainedcash compensation, without providingadditionalassistanceas called for in
    OP 4.12. The issuesof livelihoodrestoration,resettlementassistance beyondcompensation,
    and benefit-sharingwere not properlynegotiatedwith displaced persons. This does not
-   comply with OP 4.12.
    Managementfailed to comply with OP 4.12 by acceptingthe use of a formula that is not
    based on the livelihoodrestorationobjectivesof the Policy. Moreover, the Paneldiscovereda
    majorflaw in howthe statedapproachwas applied, and that the agreedupon IO-fold
    multiplierin providingcompensation was not applied.As a result,the displacedpeople were
    paidone-tenthof what was plannedin the RAP. This has resultedin a majorfailure to
    comply with OP 4.12, and to ensure that displaced peopleare at leastas well-off as before
-   displacement, as requiredby this Policy.
    Compensationmethodology did nottake into accountincomeforegonefor the loss of
    perennialcrops. Inaddition, contraryto Bank Policy(OP 4.12), Panelfindsthat transaction
    costswere borneby displacedpersons, which further reduced their chancesof being aswell
-   off afterthe transactionas before.
    The implementationof the resettlementactivitiestook place beforethe necessarymeasures
    for resettlementwere in place. This does notcomplywith OP 4.12.As of September 2007,
    adequatemeasures were still not in place.
- Management permittedinvoluntaryresettlementto beginwithout a developmentassistance
    component, as requiredby OP 4.12, which would providetargetedinvestmentresourcesto
-   enablethe persons displacedby the Projectto share in Projectbenefits.
    The Panelfound no evidenceof attemptsto meaningfullypresentthe final RAPto the
-   personsto be displaced.
     There was a failureto adequately disclose critical RAP informationnecessaryfor displaced
    personsto make meaningful, informedchoices aboutlivelihood restoration.This does not
-   comply with OP 4.12, or with the Bank'sPolicy on Disclosureof Information.
    The Yoruba translationof the executivesummary of the RAPwas preparedabout 24 months
   followingthe lastcompensation payment. Duringa field visit in July 2007, the Panel found no
    evidenceof distributionof this documentin key resettlementarea of Igbesa. Regardlessof
    distribution,disseminatingsuch informationon livelihood,compensation and other
    resefflemententitlementsyears after the displaced personshave madedecisionson these
    mattersis neithermeaningfulnortimely. This does notcomply with OP 4.12 or the Bank's
-   Policyon Disclosureof Information.
   Therewas only limitedevidencethat effortswere madeto integratethe consultationprocess
    into preparationof the RAP, and in particularto informdisplacedpersonsof their
   entitlementsunderthe RAP. This lackof meaningfuland timelyconsultationprevented
    participationand informednegotiationof resefflementoptions by displacedpersonsas called
   for in OP 4.12. Managementdid not provideadequateguidanceand instructionsto the
-   ProjectSponsorto carry out meaningfulconsultationwith displacedpeople.
    Managementfailed to ensurethat the Sponsor had in placean effectivegrievanceprocessto
-  identifyand redressresettlementissues,as requiredby OP 4.12.
    Management did notcomply with the requirementsof BP 4.12, includingthoseto assessthe
    Borrower'scommitment to and capacityfor implementingthe resettlementinstrument,and
    mitigatingsignificantrisks, includingthe risk of impoverishment, from inadequate
--- Managementdid
   implementationof the resettlementinstrument.
    - -       _ _       not adequately reviewthe Sponsor's pastexperienceand limitedcapacity
                                                                                   - -
           I_     I  ^I_           I                     I_-     I ^ _ _    ^ x _




                                          5

 Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline



                    with implementingoperations involvingsimilarinvoluntaryresettlementactivities. Neitherdid
                    Managementensureappropriatecoordinationbetweenagenciesresponsiblefor
                    implementingthe RAP. This oversightin supervisionresultedin a failure to identifythe need
                    for trainingthe Sponsorinthe involuntaryresettlementsafeguardsas per paragraph2(f) of
                    BP 4.12.This is inconsistentwith the provisionsof OP/BP 4.12.
                    Managementfailed to providecompleteinformationto the Board regardingthe Sponsor's
                    limitedcapacityto acquire land in accordancewith the standard set in OP 4.12, the Project's
                    lack of sufficientbaselinedata and the lackof a sustainablebenefitplanfor displaced
                    people. Thiswas inconsistentwith OMS 2.20 and OP 4.12.

                  - The EnvironmentalImpactAssessment (EIA) documents meetthe requirementsof Annex B
                  - of OP 4.01, Content of EnvironmentalAssessment Report for a CategoryA Project.
                    The Projectwas correctlyassigned"Category A", and as the Projectinvolvesfour countriesa
                    consolidated"RegionalAssessment" was appropriate.
IN                  The OP 4.01 requirementthat alternativesbe evaluatedhas been met.
COMPLIANCE        --The Management Response(preparedduringthe eligibility phaseof the Requestfor
                    Inspection)statesthat the ELPS IntegrityStudyconstitutesan EnvironmentalAudit, which is
                    an appropriateinstrumentfor ELPS given that it is an "existingfacility" (in operation since the
                    early 1990s).The Panelfinds support for the view that this is an appropriateEA instrument
                    for the ELPS.
                  - Failureto establishthe independentadvisorypanelduringthe planningand design stagesof
                    the Project, and delay in its establishmentduring Projectimplementation,did not comply with
                  - OP 4.01.
                    Lack of a full economicevaluationof the alternativeoffshorepipelineroute is a significant
                    shortcoming and is not consistentwith OP 4.01.
NOTIN             - Forexisting upstreamELPS, an EnvironmentalAudit (or risk assessment)in the form of an
COMPLIANCE          IntegrityStudy was undertaken.Apparentnon-disclosure of this assessmentof the ELPS,
                    and the fact that its findings and recommendationsare nottaken up in Environmental
                  - Assessment Reports, is not in accordwith paragraphs15 and 16 of OP 4.01.
                    The Panelalso observedthat affectedcommunitiesappear notto have been providedwith
                    understandablerelevant materialson overall environmentaldocumentationpriorto
                    consultationmeetings.The requirementof OP 4.01 that disclosurebe in a form and
                    languagethat is understandableto the groups being consulted has not been met.

                  - The Panelnotesthere were longgaps betweensupervisionmissionspriorto the Request.
                    Furthermore, safeguardsstaff mainlyconcernedthemselves with Projectpreparationand
                    were far less involvedin the constructionphase of the Project. Managementdid notensure
                    adequate supervisionduring the constructionphase. This did not complywith Bank Policyon
                    Supervision.
NOTIN             - The significantdelay in establishingthe ESAP constitutesnon-compliancewith OP 13.05and
ZOMPLIANCE        - OP 4.01 and ledto many problemshighlightedin the Panel's investigationreport.
                     Management's lack of diligentsupervisioncreateda responsibilityvacuum during the RAP
                    implementation. This did not comply with Bank Policyon Supervision,and led to problemsin
                    the resettlementprocess.Though Managementidentifiedseveral problems regardingthe
                  - compensation process,itwas slow to addressthem.
                    Managementdid not adequatelyaddressand follow-up on the warnings relatingto the RAP
                    processthat were raisedand discussedinthe monitoringreports.

-The Panelacknowledges complexity of landtenure arrangementsinWest Africa and notesthat effortswere
 made underthe Projectto address related social issues. However, by notensuringthat WAPCo followed
 importantelements of Bank Policy, ManagementundercutBank'sdevelopment contributionto this Project.
 More significantly,the necessary measuresto avoid impoverishmentof displaced populationswere not and
 still are not in place.
-The Panelobserves that Management and WAPCo recognizedthat under-compensationoccurred,and are
 preparingfor anothercompensation disbursal.The Panelnotes and appreciatesthese actions. The Panelis
 concerned. however that this is hninn dnnnwithniit annsiiltatinnwith disnlnned nennlec identifuinnnr
 _ _  _ _  --, - - - ,- -- -..- - --... --..- ..-..--_--..--.-_.-.. ..._..-.-r.---- r--r.--,  .--.....,...J-.
                                                  ~
 preparingmitigationfor at-risk populations,without setting clear eligibilityrequirementsbased on local land
 tenure,withoutcorrectionfor transactioncost error discussedabove, without benefit-sharingprovisionsfor
 the displacedpopulation, and without determiningwhethercash compensation is or is notthe appropriate
 i?_sttrul_merr_tto__beusedto_avo_id
                                   P_rojjectrinduced~m_m_poveyi_Shment, _- -_ - - _.  -                         __
                                                                      _I_       I                             I




                                                          6

                                                                     Management Report and Recommendation


    -The Panelnotesthe importance,underBank-policy,-of exami
         --   -~                   ~ - -             _ _ _                      ___-
                   -l_l---___I_                                          - ^ _ -    ~           I___^ ._ __
                                                                        acts linkedto the WAGP that may
      occur bothupstream and downstreamof the new pipeline, includingthose that relateto the development of
      new areas of productionandtransport.These are within the Project`s area of influenceunderOP 4.01. The
      RegionalEIA properly flags that the Projectmight have potentialimpactsinthese upstreamareas, but an
      analysisof their nature and scope has notyet beencarriedout.
    -Sound andwide ranging EmergencyResponse Plans (ERPs) have been compiled but had not, as of July
      2007, beencommunicated to communitiesalongthe Nigerianportionof WAGP's ROW. Such ERPswill not
      be effectiveunlesscommunitiesare properly informed, bothorallyand via clear, understandablewrittentext
-"ll---_-l_^ll
      in a form that-can___retainedand readily accessed, beforetheipelinebex-mes oEergi
                        be          --    ---
                                       x -         _-_-                                            -
                                              I




                                           IV.     SPECIAL ISSUES

     INTRODUCTION

      17.      The West African Gas Pipeline Project is an important operation for the region,
     which will not only foster economic cooperation andtrade amongst Nigeria, Benin, Togo
     andGhana, but will also provide least-cost andmore environmentally friendly energy for
     domestic and commercial useineach country. Similarly, it is an important project for the
     WBGbecauseit promotes regional integration, diversifies the sources ofpower supplyin
     the West Afi-ica region, and catalyses private investment for the development of
     infrastructure that would otherwise displace donor funding for the social sectors and
     poverty alleviation. Managementbelieves the WBG's role as an honestbroker among the
     four borrowing countries has also provided value-added interms o f sustainable economic
     development. Over the long term, the partnership has strengthened private sector
     commitments to environmentally and socially responsibleinvestments.

      18.      At the same time, the Project has presented preparation and implementation
     challenges for IDA and the Project sponsors. The political and social conditions in the
     Niger Delta and in the oil and gas sector continue to be unstable and complex. Several
     factors that are driving conflict in the Delta are outside of, and beyond the Project's
     control, but have nonetheless affected it; among these are poor governance, the political
     economyofrevenue distribution, multi-layered landtenure systems andlegislation, youth
     unemployment and restiveness, electoral violence, illegal oil extraction, and the
     proliferation of small arms. These factors have influenced local perceptions and local
     understanding of the operational policies of oil companies, which have in turn posed
     challenges to both the Bank and WAPCo in managing expectations. They have also
     influenced the understanding o f the Bank's policies and requirements for lending
     operationsbyWAPCo andconstrainedtheir proper implementation.

      19.      DuringProject preparation, there were critical environmental impacts that had to
     be carefully assessed and monitored. The pipeline passes through the coastal waters of
     four countries; it crosses the beaches of eachcountry, and includes buried lines of various
     lengths. It connects to onshore facilities that deliver gas into the line or regulate gas
     pressure and meter deliveries to customers. Baseline environmental studies were
     conducted over a two-year period, documented separately and summarized in the
     Environmental Assessments (EAs), o f which there are five - one for each country plus a
     regional EA that integrates the findings o fthe four and examines cumulative impacts and
     issues of regional importance. Although only about 200 hectares o f land had to be



                                                          7

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


acquired, landacquisition nonetheless necessitatedpreparation o f four RAPSincountries
with varying forms of national landpolicies and practices governing land ownership and
land use. The Inspection Panel has acknowledged the highquality of the environmental
assessments and management plans. During the implementation phase, however,
deficiencies in the RAP for Nigeria and the socio-economic survey were uncovered.
Managementalso acknowledges that some of these deficiencies could havebeen detected
and addressedwith better supervision.

20.     WAGP was one o fthe early regional projects undertakeninAfrica when the Bank
was at a nascent phase of establishing the appropriate institutional, budgetary, and
management structure for handling multi-country initiatives. Management concurs that
there was inadequate supervision of WAGP during the critical initial implementation
phase o f the Project. While this is now being rectified, this represented a missed
opportunity to take corrective actions on sensitive social aspects at an important juncture
in the Project's implementation. In the last several years, regional Management has
learned from the experiences of this and other regional projects. For example, issues
regarding unclear accountability that affected the Project in the early implementation
phasehave beenresolved. Commencing with the appointment o f a Director for Regional
Programs in 2004, regional Management has established operational procedures,
responsibilities, and budgets for such projects. Guidelines have been operationalized for
introducing regional projects into Country Assistance Strategies, and for providing clear
leadership and accountability on all aspects o fproject managementthroughout the project
cycle, including adequate budgetary allocations, staffing, and management information
systems, both at headquartersand inthe field. Regional Managementhas thus been fully
engaged in supervising the Project, meeting WAPCo executives on a regular basis to
ensure timely follow-up of various commitments with regard to overall Project
management, construction, and environmental and social safeguards.

21.     Implementation has remained challenging but, given the complexity o f the
undertaking, remarkable in that problems that seemed insurmountable have been
addressed. For example, most worrisome to the sponsors and the prospective customers
for the gas were physical setbacks with the principal contractor for the land-based lines
and stations, which have delayed completion. At Project appraisal in 2004, crude oil
prices at which the choice between gas and current fuel would be neutral for electricity
generators were USD17.68 per barrel (Brent Crude) for the VRA inGhana-the primary
consumer o fthe gas -andUSD7.24 per barrelfor CEB, the power supplier for Benin and
Togo. The World Bank's projections estimated a rise inoil prices from USD24harrel in
2007 to USD25.25 in 2015. With today's oil prices above USD130harre1, the date o f
"first gas" i s a matter o f intense interest indiscussionswith the heads o f state ofthe three
customer countries. Current oil prices give a new meaning to the first development
objective for the Project, which is "improving the competitiveness of the energy sectors
inGhana, Benin andTogo bypromoting the useof cheaperand environmentally cleaner
gas from Nigeria..   .." Insummary,     WAGP i s an important and, so far, successful project
that promises to achieve its developmentobjectives.

22.     Management concurs with many of the Panel's findings regarding compliance
with social safeguards. While the problems with social safeguards remain compelling,


                                                8

                                                        Management Report and Recommendation


they are not intractable. WAPCo's flawed consultation and compensation process in
Nigeria vis-&vis Bank safeguard policies and procedures presented significant
challenges, which are inthe process o f beingremedied. For example, to address gaps in
compensation payments in 2004, as a first step, WAPCo will complete an additional
compensationprocessby October 2008, which is aimed at ensuring livelihoodrestoration
for existing PAPs. The field-based Bank social specialist in Abuja will ensure that this
process includes verification of PAPs and identification of any new claimants. Second, to
better plan activities for livelihood restoration, an updatedsocio-economic survey will be
carried out by the end of 2008. Bank social specialists on the Project team will review
and monitor the outcome of the survey and provide technical support to WAPCo. More
intensive Bank supervision will ensure that the survey results will be used to improve
development programs to assist affected and vulnerable PAPs in restoring their
livelihoods. Third, WAPCo will implement the recommendation of the Environmental
and Social Advisory Panel (ESAP) to make available training to PAPs on money
management and small agricultural investments. The Bank's field visit in October 2008
will coincide with the completion o f additional compensation, and will assess the extent
and quality of the livelihood oriented training programs. Inaddition, while the land-for-
land option was offered to PAPs in 2004, as part of the Bank's good practice for land
acquisition, the overwhelming preference of PAPs was for cash compensation. The Bank
field visit inAugust 2008 will verify that PAPs were made aware of this option. Lastly,
the grievance mechanism was not as transparent nor as widely known or available as it
should havebeen, andthis is now beingrectified. (See Section IV, Special Issues, as well
as responses to the Panel's findings in Annex 1, Items 2 and 7.) An assessment o f the
grievance and dispute resolution mechanisms, interms of their effectiveness inreaching
out to PAPs, will be covered in the October 2008 Bank field visit. The monthly field
visit and supervision mission outputs will be inaddition to the yearly independent RAP
implementationreview that WAPCo hasundertaken (commencing inSeptember 2007).

23.     In all four countries, communities have generally been satisfied with and
supportive of the Project, and appreciative o f WAPCo's CDPs and the way in which
WAPCo has interacted with them. The Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) have
been effective in preventing any serious impacts. A contractor's failure to follow all
elements in the EMP protocol for discharge of chemically-treated water after
hydrotesting caused a minor fish kill and complaints fi-om the affected community at
Takoradi. Otherwise, environmental issues have been limited to minor local problems,
such as localized erosion, that have been corrected when identified by WAPCo's
independent monitoring consultants, the ESAP and Bank supervision missions.
Contractor compliance with the Project's health and safety rules has been good as well -
more than seven million worker hours without a lost time accident directly related to
work since one fatality early inthe Project.

24.     In terms of monitoring of impacts on PAPs' income and livelihood, RAP
implementation will be assessed yearly by an independent evaluator/consultant to be
engagedby WAPCo, basedon Terms o f Reference(TORS) agreedwith the Bank. Inthis
connection, three corrective measures will be closely supervised through monthly Bank
monitoring and follow-up from July to December 2008. First is the establishment o f a
well designed socio-economic baseline o f PAPs as the basis for monitoring changes in


                                               9

Ghana- WestAfLican GasPipeline


PAPs' income and well-being. As noted above, the survey results are expectedbythe end
of 2008. The Project's Senior Social Development Specialists will review the baseline
indicators to ensure that these sufficiently measure impacts and address potential
impoverishment risks facing local people. There will be a survey update in 2010, which
will also be monitored through follow-up Bank field visits and supervision missions.
Second is distribution o f additional compensation to PAPs by October 2008. As
mentioned earlier, senior field-based Bank staff will monitor the compensation process
through follow up visits in July, August, and October 2008 to ensure that it includes
intra- and inter-household verification o f PAPs, and transparency and disclosure to PAPs
of the methods for calculating compensation and addressing restoration of livelihood.
Lastly, field-based Bank staff who are specialists in community facilitation and
consensus building have been working closely with WAPCo to ensure that the
compensation, grievance mechanism, CDP, and other programs are carried out in
consultation with local people andinaparticipatorymanner.

25.     Management relied on WAPCo's             capacity to implement the Project's
environmental and social safeguards. While WAPCo did an adequatejob with respect to
the EMPs and preparation o f social safeguards, as confirmed through Bank supervision,
there were notable problems in implementing the land acquisition and compensation
components. WAPCo's capacity to implement the complex process o f compensation for
land and other assets it acquired was weak, due largely to significant changes in its
project teams. Another major shortcoming was the lack of more frequent and direct
supervision by the Bank and training during initial RAP implementation. Management
recognized that accomplishing effective implementation oversight from Bank
headquarters of a project straddling four countries was difficult, and that for large
regional projects, the ideal location for supervisory staff is in the field. To rectify this
shortfall, Management has transferred the task team leadership of WAGP to an
experienced Senior Energy Specialist based inAbuja and assignedthe leadresponsibility
for resettlement and other social issues to a Senior Social Development Specialist, also in
the Abuja office, with support from social specialists in headquarters. A Senior
Economist based in Accra adds additional strength to the field-based part of the team.
Finally, regional Management is engaging regularly with WAPCo to discuss ongoing
commitments and follow-up.

26.    ELPS, Upstream Gas Supply, and Gas Flaring. Management's reasoning for
excluding the ELPS and the upstream gas supply sources from the Project's area of
influence for EA purposes was explained during the November 2004 Board presentation
and has not changed. ELPS i s not a facility that depends on WAGP or that required
investments or other changes to serve WAGP. It i s not owned or controlled by WAPCo
or N-Gas. As part of its own due diligence, WAPCo requested NNPC to carry out an
ELPS Integrity Study, which identified some improvements that could be made with
regard to safety and reliability. This study confinned that the ELPS system was in
satisfactory condition to deliver gas to WAGP without modification. The study, in
essence an environmental audit, couldnot bepublicly disclosedbecauseo f content that is
highly sensitive for pipeline security - i.e., information on design and vulnerability to
acts ofsabotage. WAPCo andthe Bankwere able to obtain copies o f this study only upon
signing confidentiality agreements with NNPC. Regarding gas sources, the producers


                                             10

                                                           Management Report and Recommendation



informed WAPCo and the Bank that they had in place the necessary wells and gas
gathering and treatment facilities to meet initial WAGP demand. New facilities to supply
additional gas would not be required within the medium term (five to ten years) or
longer; moreover, the specific nature o f any potentialnew investments andtheir locations
cannot be predicted. More important, the Bank i s not in a position to influence the
management o f the environmental and social impacts o f such facilities, if and when they
are installed, as it is not party to the legal agreements with the initial producers who will
ship gas through WAGP, nor would it be with any potential new producers who might
come forward once the pipeline becomes available for open access. In the case o f the
Chad-Cameroon Pipeline, while the Bank Group included environmental requirements in
the legal agreements to be met by future oil shippers, finding an enforcement mechanism
not involving the Government o f Chad has proven impossible. Consequently,
Management determined that the best andperhaps the only practical approach for WAGP
was to rely on Nigerian regulations and regulatory agencies. The Access Code sets out
the terms under which new shippers may use the pipeline, and requires certification that
their oil and gas fields and delivery systems have been developed in compliance with
Nigerianlaw and EA regulations.

27.     In 1995, the Bank issued a report entitled, "Defining an Environmental
Development Strategy for the Niger Delta" which may still be the most comprehensive
review available on the extent and causes o f environmental degradation. Gas flaring was
assessed in that report as a source o f local and global environmental degradation, while
phenomena such as fisheries depletion, deforestation, agricultural landdegradation, water
hyacinth expansion, industrial effluents and emissions, municipal waste and oil pollution
were assigned higher priority at the Delta-wide scale, as determined by estimating the
costs and environmental and health benefits o f potential interventions. The Bank is
currently updating the 1995 report as part of its management o f the Global Gas Flaring
Reduction (GGFR) partnership. With Bank assistance, and the GGFR partnership, the
Government o f Nigeria has drafted a Downstream Gas Act and revised its oil and gas
fiscal system to support emergence of a domestic gas market.

28.     The environmental and social conditions in the Niger Delta need to be addressed
and this Project does not seek in any way to minimize their importance. The Bank
currently supports 24 projects in Nigeria, amounting to over USD2.9 billion, including
institutional innovation and conflict-sensitive community development, for example, in
Rivers State.3 The derivation formula through which 13 percent o f oil revenues are given
to the originating state is also followed by the Niger Delta Development Commission.
Thus, WAGP is simply one of the instruments aimed at ameliorating environmental and
social impacts. On the environment side, and as noted inthe Project Appraisal Document
(PAD), WAGP's contribution to flaring reduction would at most be 5 percent o f current
flaring volume; it is an important step, saving wasted energy and reducing flaring

 SeveralBank-financedprojects address inftastructure, humandevelopment, electricity, community
development, governance, andpublic sector managementconcerns. These include, for example, the Lead
State Support project inCross River; FadamaI1inImo; State Governance andCapacity Buildingin Cross
River; Micro, Small, andMediumEnterprise project in Abia; Community Based UrbanDevelopment in
Abia, Akwa Ibom, Edo, Ondo, andRivers; and Community BasedPoverty Reductionproject inAbia and
Cross River.


                                                  11

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


impacts, but not the primary vehicle for flaring phaseout. While its contribution to gas
flaring reduction maybemodest, the Project provides animportant infi-astructureasset by
which associated and non-associated gas can be put into productive use. As such, it
should be seen as a vehicle which can provide incentives to Nigeria to collateralize and
remove related negative environmental impacts of an otherwise wasted but important
asset.

29.      Nigeria supports power plants in the troubled Niger Delta where local
communities urgently need reliable electricity. In late 2006, the GGFR partnership
provided carbon finance advice and other technical support that helped a 450 MW gas-
fired power plant at Kwale qualify to earn important carbon credits under the Kyoto
Protocol. This was essentialinmakingthe community basedproject commercially viable.
The Italian oil company, Eni, which was a partner to the gas flaring initiative, invested
more than USD400 million to build the plant. The initiative was, in fact, the Kyoto
treaty's first Nigerianproject and one o f the largest worldwide. Its reduction o f carbon
dioxide emissions from gas flaring over 10 years is equal to taking 2.7 million cars off
American roads.

SOCIAL ISSUES

30.      LandAcquisition. The Project required acquisition ofland within the ROW o fthe
gas pipeline, compressor station, construction camps and roads, and other ancillary
facilities. RAPs were prepared separately for Nigeria, Benin, Togo, and Ghana in June
2004. Two reviews of the RAPs were completed in November 2006 by an independent
evaluator, Environmental Resources Management (ERM), and by the ESAP, which
submitted its first post-land take and pre-pipeline commissioning Mission Report in
November 2007 as requiredby IDA legal covenants. ERM also completed a RAP Audit
inMarch2007, which hasbeenupdatedto incorporate the Bank's comments; it will also
be further updated to include any new information and data collected during the
additional compensation process on existing PAPs and new claimants, and will be
reviewed duringthe Bank supervision missionplanned for December2008.

31.      Eligible land parcels were identified through customary rights of occupancy. As
stated in the 2004 RAP, these customary rights were verified in three ways: (i)
identification of the holder of the occupancy right o f the land parcel; (ii) notification o f
landrights anddisclosureto affected communities, ensuringthat local leaderswere aware
o fWAPCo's intentionto acquirethe land; (iii)   receipt o fthe state's prior consent for land
acquisition "of any statutory occupancy right or grant of suchrightby the state;" and (iv)
approval ofthe local government authority to occupy land, or aportion ofthe land, where
no statutory or customary rights o f land exist. The physical demarcation o f land parcel
boundaries was completed by local Estate Surveyors in 2003. These boundaries and the
listing of assets were used by individual estate evaluators who were hired by PAPs to
negotiate with WAPCo. Each negotiation was followed by a formal public hearing to
discuss the land parcel demarcation and to establish a timeline for completion o f the
negotiation andregistration of compensation claims.




                                             12

                                                             Management Report and Recommendation



32.     The 2004 RAP estimated the total area o f land take of about 203 hectares, 70
percent of which was in Nigeria. The ROW land parcels in Nigeria belonged to 2,485
households in 23 communities. O f these, 1,557 (about 63 percent) were registered as
landowners and 928 were tenants. There were 143 landowners with residential plots, 37
of which had built-upstructures within the ROW. InBenin, land take inthe Akadjamey
andAkouehonour sites covered 39.1 hectaresbelonging to 370 owners4.The situation in
Togo is unique, inthat the landbelonged to a single entity, Soci6t6 d'Administration des
Zones Franches, which acquired property rights from the government during the 1960s.
Lastly, inGhana, landtake was about 11.2 hectares inthe two communities o f Tema and
Takoradi. The landinTakoradi was purchased from the VRA. At Tema, land was leased
from TemaDevelopment Corporation (TDC), but about 24 families hadproprietary rights
to the use of the land. There were also 19 squatter families who were compensatedby
WAPCo, applying guidelines from TDC inTemaNew Town.

33.     The ESAP reviewed and found the land take process to be satisfactory and
consistent with OP 4.12 guidelines. Displacement was minimized by: (i)                   limiting the
ROW width to 25 meters; (ii)      avoiding construction of access roads to the pipeline; (iii)
sitingtemporary camps and storage facilities inareas unsuitable for cultivation, retaining
as much of productive lands as possible; and (iv) allowing cultivation o f crops along the
borders of the ROW. PAPs who continued to cultivate along the sides of the ROW or
were cultivating in nearby farm lands, were allowed to use the ROW for access (e.g.,
crossing) after the pipeline was placedunderground.

34.     The census o f affected householdsinNigeria was carried out by a local company,
Estate Surveyors,' and included information on land plots and physical assets, such as
types of structures, number and types of economic trees and crops, access issues,
ownership and leasehold conditions, available property valuations using buying-and-
selling prices, and community stakeholder issues (e.g., who had access to the property;
who gave the "rights"       to land and assets; who worked on the land; whether the
landowners cultivated the land or had tenants, etc.). O f the 144 hectares o f land take
within the ROW, 82 percent were agricultural cropland, and another 92 percent were
usedfor agroforestry. Only about 4 percent o fthe land hadphysical structures on it (e.g.,
buildings, houses, etc.). The 2004 RAP report estimatedthe number of displaced persons
as 8,647, basedon the averagehousehold size of 3.48 persons, which was admittedly low
for Nigeria in2003. The majority o f directly affected persons (72 percent) were engaged
insubsistenceagriculture andrelatedland-basedactivities. Incontrast, fishingaccounted
for less than 10 percent o f the PAPs, although in Ajido village, PAPs engaged in both
subsistence farming and small-scale commercial fishing. There was an almost even
distribution of males (51 percent of PAPs) and females. Interms o f ethnic composition,
most of the PAPs (77 percent) were Yoruba, 16 percent were Eegunand Awori, and less
than 5 percent migrants. Crop farming (cassava, maize, plantain, yam, oil palm, and
cocoyam) was the dominant source o f employment, for 75 percent o f those who were
surveyed in 2003, followed by trading, commerce, and professional activities (13


 About 38 percent o fhouseholdshave registeredtheir lands under the landparceling system, lotissement.
 WAPCo also hiredConsultingandCitizens Internationalto undertake the focus group meetings,
community surveys, andthe socio-economic baseline survey in2004.


                                                13

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


percent), and fishing (4 percent). However, this broad socio-economic description refers
only to about 20 percent o f the total number of PAPs that were included inthe household
survey sample. Thus, Management concurs with the Panel's observation that it is
important to establish a good socio-economic baseline o f directly affected populations
and, to this end, corrective actions are currently underway. Management further agrees
that any potential undercounting of displaced people could have serious effects not only
in determination of compensationpayments, but inother aspects of the Project, notably
the scope and content of community development sub-projects (see paragraph51 below).

35.     The multi-layered tenurial set-up in Nigeria made it difficult to obtain accurate
data on the number of people working in a land parcel at one time. The 2004 RAP
describes various forms of individual property rights. Ingeneral, most land parcels have
layers of property relationships. As the 2004 RAP notes: "The land tenure system in
Nigeria varies by ethnic group, community, and state     ...traditionalauthorities have some
supervisory and distribution roles." In one example, buying and selling of land parcels
needed the "consent o f the Oba6 of the town." In another example, the "chief holds
supervisory authority on the family land and on behalf o f the family," but the household
headhad the authority to buy and sell land. Inyet another example in Itoki, landparcels
were purchased from "indigenes" by migrants from Abeokuta, Ota, and other places. In
these lands, the Baale7 controlled land allocation and selling o f land parcels and
"individuals who bought their landhave control over such lands" (2004 RAP, p. 4-36).

36.     Another factor that affected data collection on properties and the census of PAPs
was difficulty in clarifylng the differences between traditional and "formal" (legal)
property rules. As described in the 2004 RAP report: "Land ownership in Nigeria is
officially regulated by the Land Use Act o f 1990 and landowners do not necessarily
`own' land in the Western sense. The law vests ownership of all land within a state,
which holds land in trust for the people. The state is responsible for allocating for
residential, commercial, and agricultural purposes in accordance with the law. Land
allocated in rural areas is under the control of local government authorities." Thus, the
landtake census that was carried out by Estate Surveyors in 2003 focused primarily on
the "formal" landowner, and since only one-third o f landowners were included in the
socio-economic survey in 2004, Management was aware and agrees that the number of
displacedpersonswas under-estimated.

37.     Management concurs that the 2004 RAP report did not provide an adequate
breakdown o f results of the census; data collected by two Bank missions in2006, as well
as by the 2007 RAP Audit, included additional information on PAPs in Nigeria and
Beninto help rectify the data gaps.* Similarly, Management agrees with the Panel's and
ESAP's findings of weak socio-economic information, especially information on the
dynamics o f intra- and inter-household access to landandproductive assets. WAPCo has
agreed to update the socio-economic survey data by the end of 2008, followed by a
secondupdate in2010 that will assess Project impacts on PAPs and larger communities.

  A kingor leader.
* AWAFTOupdated its
    headchief.
                   database inresponseto World Bankrequests andinpreparation for the independent
RAPAudit carriedout byE M .


                                               14

                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


Staff will make regular field visits and discuss with WAPCo indicators that will be
measuredthrough the survey to ensure that a sufficient baseline o fPAPS' socio-economic
conditions is established. Once the survey i s completed in December 2008, the survey
informationwill also feed into WAPCo' s existing databasefor monitoring and evaluation
purposes, andwill also provide useful inputinto the design ofits CDPs.

38.     Land-for-Land    Compensation. Initially, WAPCo offered PAPs in Nigeria
replacementland-for-land that hadto be appropriated. Several landparcels alongthe Ota-
Ewekoro and Ota-Idiroko axis and near the Alagbado gas terminal were identified.
WAPCo's Estate Surveyor also identified residential plots in 2004, indicating that there
were numerous replacementlands and housing plots available that were either o f similar
or better quality. The PAPs were allowed to select their own lands for replacement and
WAPCo worked with each claimant in finding appropriate replacement land and, if
needed, intransferring ownership to PAPs. As of May 2004, only two families had opted
for replacementland, with the remaining families opting for cashcompensation.

39.     Management concurs with the Panel's finding that while the land-for-land option
was offered, WAPCo may not have used a strong and convincing approach to PAPs to
select this option. Management notes that while the RAP Audit indicates that the land-
for-land option could have been better communicated to PAPs, those PAPs who were
aware of this option reported that it was complicated and not perceived to be a realistic
alternative to cash for three reasons. First is that the PAPs preferred to purchase their
lands. Of the sample interviewed during the RAP Audit, 47 percent had purchased land
with the compensation(though not always inthe surrounding areas); others hadusedthe
money to improve their houses. Second, several PAPs cited lack of availability o f
productive land and risk of Government expropriation as barriers to selecting the land-
for-land option. Third, the presence of WAGP temporarily inflated local land prices.
Because the earlier identified productive replacement lands are no longer available, it is
now difficult to offer the land-for-land option. Nonetheless, the ESAP has recommended
that WAPCo "should analyze the reasonsthat led to the overwhelming provision o f cash
compensation; andthe use and success o f the cash compensationinre-establishing assets
and livelihoods" (ESAP MissionReport, November 2007). This could be accomplished
through the existing RAP implementation monitoring process or during the updating o f
the socio-economic survey (see paragraphs45 and 46). The Bank will follow up through
field visits and missions Erom July to December 2008 to assist WAPCo in better
understandingthe dynamics behindthe PAPs' preferencesfor cash.

40.     Cash Compensationfor Land In determining cash compensation for land in
Nigeria, WAPCo calculated landvaluation based on the Estate Surveyor's report, which
recommendeda landcompensationbaserate o fNGN10.00/m2. A formula of 10times the
base rate plus 75 percent mark up was applied to bringthe value up to NGN175.00/m2,
which was determined to be the replacement cost o f the land; the IDA appraisal mission
supported application of this formula. However, during implementation, WAPCo paid
only NGN70.00/m2 as land compensation, o f which the recognized landowner received
one-fourth, as indicatedbelow:

       Landowner                                            NGN17.50/m2


                                             15

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline



        Community Rightsto Community                         NGN30.00/m2

        Traditional Rightsto Community Leadership            NGN22.50/m2

    Total                                                    NGN70.00/m2

41.     On discoveringthat just one-tenth ofthe estimatedNGNl75.00/m2landvalue had
beenpaid to landowners, tenants, and other claimants, a Bank mission in2006 requested
that the independent evaluator, ERM, assess the breakdown of actual compensation
paymentsinits review of RAP implementation. Itwas revealedthat grievances registered
in2005 and2006 referredto under-valuation of crops andtrees. Subsequently, the Bank
recruited two consultants, an estate valuator and a lawyer, to assess the under-valued land
and other assets. Based on the consultants' reports, and as recommended by ERM and
ESAP, WAPCo calculated additional payments based on differential land values
estimated for three zones by the estate valuator. The property values by zone were based
on available market information, including updated buying-and-selling land prices, and
predominant landuse (e.g., urban, peri-urban, and agricultural).

42.     WAPCo subsequently approved a budgetary allocation to cover the expected
compensationshortfall, realizing that this amount would be critical for assisting PAPs in
restoring livelihoods. WAPCo was also aware of the importance o f correcting the
valuation at a level that would be closer to replacement costs. In this regard, WAPCo
adjusted the three zones and added a fourth zone to better reflect actual land costs and
land use differences in the more urbanized segments of the ROW. In addition, the
WAPCo Board of Directors has directed that immediate additional payments be made to
cover the compensation shortfall and also increased the allocation and commitment to
expandingthe CDPs to also take into account vulnerable groups.

43.     Other Compensation. Aside from land, WAPCo paid replacement costs o f
physical structures based on the costs o f buildings and construction materials. A list of
buying-and-selling prices o f types of structures by location was compiled by Estate
Surveyors in 2003-2004. ERM assessed these values in 2005-2006 to be above market
rates and replacement costs, and this was confirmed by a Bank supervision mission in
September2006 andbythe ESAP review in2007.

44.     Concerning economic trees and crops, WAPCo used the Oil Producers' Trade
Section (OPTS) rates for Nigeria. Although WAPCo in2004 added a "mark up" that was
about ten times the OPTS rates, the estate valuator in2007 found that the original (2004)
base prices were below market values. As a result, WAPCo hired an agricultural
economist in 2008 to update market rates for each type of asset (i.e., crops and trees)
from 2003-2004 and adjusting for inflation to 2008, considering the differentiated land
use for three to four zones andthe most current IITA/FAO agricultural prices for Nigeria.
Based on the draft report under review, the revised calculations will result in additional
paymentsto bepaid to PAPs.

45.     Overall Compensation Package. As o f August 2007, total land acquisition
payments to affected households in all four countries totaled more than USD7.0 million.



                                            16

                                                      Management Report and Recommendation



This would increase to about USD9.5 to 10.0 million following completion o f the
additional payments for land, crops, trees, etc., which will be completed by October
2008. As mentioned inthe introductionto this section, the additional payments constitute
one o fthe corrective measures adoptedbyWAPCo to addressthe compensation gaps that
occurred in 2004. The delivery o f these additional payments will be complemented by
training for PAPs in money management and small business development, and by
modiflmg the CDPs to better take into account the needs o f PAPs and vulnerable groups.
While OP 4.12 allows the use o f cash compensation if PAPs indicate "overwhelming
preference," the December 2007 Bank supervision missionwas informedby WAPCo that
it would be difficult to offer the land-for-land option under the additional compensation
program since most o f the earlier identified productive replacement lands are no longer
available. Additionally, Management concurs with the ESAP findings that "while this
(cash) i s the easier option to implement," the Project will need to address the "welfare
hazards" associated with cash payments in several ways. ESAP recommended that
WAPCo provide "practical training on how to use cash." Another way i s to require PAPs
to attend "community meetings to discuss the problems o f cash mismanagement." It was
recommended that WAPCo provide "future in-kind options (e.g.,             markets, skills
training), but these should be spelled out in detail" (see below). Finally, WAPCo,
applying lessons learned from the first round o f cash compensation, i s verifylng eligible
landowners for each parcel (including through discussions with landowners regarding
other land users, such as tenants and farm workers) and has been openly and
transparently discussing the methodology for calculating additional payments with PAPs
andlocalleaders, includingidentificationo finter- andintra-household accessto landand
other productive assets. StartinginJuly 2008, the monthly Bank field visits to the Project
sites will ensure that the additional compensation has been effectively implemented. The
Bank field visit in August 2008 will also work closely with WAPCo to eliminate the
"transaction costs" to PAPs and improve its delivery o f money management and
livelihood options. The witness nongovernmental organization (NGO)will provide real-
time feedback to WAPCo and the Bank field-based team on the quality o f delivery o f the
additionalpayments and livelihood restoration activities.

46.     WAPCo agreed to provide community sensitization and consultations on the
methodology and process for additional compensation, together with appropriate training
on money management and activities for restoring livelihoods. These are important,
given the challenges o f delivering relatively large amounts o f cash in light o f security
issues and balancingcash preferences with livelihood and money management programs.
The monthly Bank follow-up visits to the Project sites will monitor the extent and quality
o f community sensitization. In fact, during the May 2008 Bank supervision, several
sensitization meetings in Nigeria were observed. The meetings were well attended,
including not only PAPs but also local leaders and other interested community members.
The purpose, methodology for calculating the additional compensation, grievance
procedures, etc., were discussed inthese meetings. Together with the witness NGO, Bank
field-based staff will continue this active oversight to ensure that there is better
documentation o f these meetings and that the outcomes o f the consultations on the
methodology for additional compensation and other relatedissues are also includedinthe
monthly RAP implementation monitoring (WAPCo regularly provides these monitoring
reports to the Bank).


                                             17

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


47.     Restoration of Livelihoods. In addition to compensation, WAPCo i s also
implementing three programs aimed at restoring livelihoods which were recommendedin
the ESAP Mission Report. These are: (i), provision of practical training on money
                                                     the
management and offering opportunities for small business investments, supplemented
with micro financing; (ii)      community development sub-projects that provide basic social
services and expanding these to infkastructure support like markets and feeder roads that
directly impact agricultural production; and (iii)longer term assistance to PAPs,
including formation ofagricultural support groups andvocational skills training.

48.     The three programs are expected to benefit PAPs and surrounding communities.
These benefits are especially critical for the majority o f the PAPs dependent on
subsistence agriculture. Eventhoughjust 20 percent of PAPs were surveyed in 2003, the
results o f the Environment and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) Household Survey
nonetheless indicate the extent of poverty among the PAPs' households. For example,
results from 125 PAP households showed an average annual food expenditure o f
USD102, which was much lower than the yearly average for the Southwest region o f
USD324 in 2003-2004.9 This is consistent with the 69 percent poverty incidence in the
region during the same years, where close to one-third o f the rural population in Ogun
State was classified as "extreme poor," living on less than USD1.OO a day. The results
also showed that 21 percent of PAPs surveyed had average per capita annual incomes
between USD500-1,000, which was significantly higher than the national average o f
USD300 in 2003." However, the 2004 RAP report noted that the survey results on
income were not reliable, and so the figures "are not an accuratereporting of all income
sources.'' Indeed, the problem of acquiring good income and socio-economic information
was discussedwith WAPCo duringthe Bank supervisionmission inDecember 2007. The
socio-economic survey, to be completed by December 2008, i s expected to improve
existing baseline information, which will assist in the design of livelihood restoration
programs. Further, the Project team will assist WAPCo in devising a survey instrument
that can better reflect changes inincome levels, during the field visit plannedfor August
2008.

49.     Grievance Mechanism. In 2005, WAPCo established a grievance mechanism
which was to apply six steps: (i) o f grievances (or complaints) inthe log entry, with
                                       filing
a detailed description of the complaint; (ii)          determination of corrective actions by the
Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) with the concerned PAPs; (iii)                    meeting with the
concerned PAPs to propose corrective actions; (iv) implementation o f the corrective
action using a Resolution Agreement form; (v) verification of the corrective action by a
WAPCo representative; (vi) closure, ifthe claimant is satisfied; and (vii) determination of
alternative actions ifthe disputeremainsunresolved.

50.     The review o f RAP implementation by ERM in 2005-2006 indicated that there
was weak understanding by PAPs of the grievance filing and resolution steps. Although
the CLOs explained the proceduresto PAPs, Management agrees with the Panel that the

 National Bureau of Statistics, 2004. "Poverty Profile 2004," Federal Republic ofNigeria.
ht~:ll~.nigerianstat.aov.nq. exchangerate applied in2003-2004 was USD1.OO =N133.3.
                                The
loNational Bureauof Statistics, 2005. "The Nigerian Statistical FactsheetsonEconomic and Social
Development." Federal Republic ofNigeria http//www.nigerianstat.gov.ng/fact-sheets.


                                                     18

                                                     Management Report and Recommendation


grievance mechanism should provide more accessible procedures for third party
settlement o f disputes arising from compensation and other aspects o f the RAP, along
with improved documentation o f dispute resolution. In each country, WAPCo has
reviewed andrevised the grievance mechanisms and documentation, andhas put inplace
programs to increase community awareness of dispute resolution procedures. Duringthe
ongoing consultation and sensitization process (15 community meetings were held in
May/June 2008), documentation on the grievance mechanism was shared with PAPs,
including, inter alia, information on accessible procedures for third-party settlement o f
disputes arising fi-om resettlement, judicial recourse, and mediation by community or
local government leadership. Concerning the documentation process, WAPCo has also
proposed a digital complaints log in each country and a database at Accra headquarters,
using information provided by the witness NGO. Ongoing field-based supervision by
staff in the Country Offices will follow up on these actions as part o f the yearly
independent evaluation ofRAP implementation.

5 1.    Community Development Program. Based on a Participatory Needs Assessment
(PNA)/Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) undertaken fiom 2003 to 2006, community
development activities were launched almost immediately after the first compensation
payments were completed in2004. Agreements (Memoranda o f Understanding) with 27
communities were madein2005, indicating community preferencesfor infrastructure and
livelihood sub-projects. By December 2006, WAPCo had completed 51 "small works"
types of community sub-projects, such as schools, classroom blocks, libraries, health
centers, water boreholes, and sanitary and drainage facilities. The total amount for these
sub-projects was over USD1.9 million. In Nigeria, a local NGO, Enterprise for
Development International was contracted to supervise construction and initial operation
of 15 health centers and schools. The design and siting of these facilities was based on
the Participatory Rural Appraisal inNigeria in2006, which involved more than one-half
o f the PAPs. In2007, WAPCo also launched CDPs aimed at diversifl.ing income streams
through skill acquisition, small scale business development, and vocational training
programs (primarily for the youth). In Benin, Togo, and Ghana, the community
development projects were completed and some of these were handed over to local
officials for operation andmaintenancein2007 and 2008.

52.     WAPCo is        managing community sub-projects through outsourcing o f
construction to local NGOs and private agencies. Community development will be
supportedthroughout the life o f the Project. The ESAP recommendedthat WAPCo shift
to more livelihood oriented programs and less on "bricks and mortar" types o f activities.
In response, the third phase of WAPCo's CDP will focus on skills acquisition and
vocational training for vulnerable groups. During the December 2007 Bank supervision
mission, WAPCo agreed to implement CDP actions that may range from provision of
ramps for disabled students in schools to technical support for special vocational
programs for vulnerable groups. On the basis o f the RAP Audit and the socio-economic
survey update to be undertaken, WAPCo will continue to explore ways o f making the
CDP flexible and take into account the needs and full participation o f affected
communities. Fieldvisits will monitor this regularlyandthe Bank supervision mission in
December2008 will review the CDP implementation strategy.




                                            19

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


53.      Vulnerable Groups. The 2004 RAP report identified vulnerable persons as those
"with significantly lower income levels, who would be prone to the risk o f
impoverishment as a result o f land take." These may be single parent households,
families with only grandparents and grandchildren, women headed households, or those
with elderly and disabled members. According to the data compiled in 2003, o f the 125
PAPs interviewed, women comprised 23 percent o f landowners but they lost, on average,
less land in the ROW compared to male landowners. Among tenants, the number o f
women is lower (17 percent). About one-third o f landowners had illnesses such as
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, or malaria.

54.     WAPCo has agreed to implement the ESAP recommendation o f sensitizing its
CLOs on the issue o f vulnerable people, and to "commence planning and implementing
credible search and response to individual vulnerables". Management agrees with the
Panel and ESAP that more targeted efforts are needed to ensure that vulnerable groups
receive benefits. WAPCo will undertake to identify any vulnerable people during the
forthcoming verification process when additional compensation will be provided to
existing (and any newly identified) PAPs. WAPCo will also include gender
mainstreaming variables in the ongoing socio-economic survey, retro-fitting its CDP
activities to include vulnerable groups, and incorporating targeted support for skills
development to allow empowerment activities to run concurrently with ongoing and
plannedconstruction activities.

55.     Disclosure of Information and Consultation. The RAP was publicly disclosed in
2004, though translated versions in local dialects were not distributed to communities
until June 2007. Management regrets the delay in making translations of the RAP
available and the delay intranslating the EMP. These documents should have been made
available to PAPs prior to their receiving entitlements. Management further
acknowledges that one village meeting per district or area to discuss the RAP and CDP
was insufficient to ensure full understanding o f the program. As corrective measures,
Management will ensure that the EMP i s translated into local dialects, and that it is
distributed to affected communities in August 2008. Management will also ensure that
the results and quality o f feedback o f the local consultations are recorded in the
consultation logs o f CLOs, which are submitted quarterly to WAPCo's head office in
Accra, and which will be reviewed duringBank supervision missions.

56.     In2004-2005, consultations took place intown halls and libraries, Igbesa Oba's
Palace, Badagry Town Hall, and local government offices in Ado, Ifo, Ado-Odo/Ota,
Department o f Petroleum Resources (DPR)-Lagos, Lagos State Secretariat, and Lands
Departments inAlausa, Ogun State Secretariat, Abeokuta, Oku Mosun, and the Ministry
o f Petroleum Resources-Abuja. Public notices were announced in the media. Among
communities, and especially in PAP villages, disclosure procedures were undertaken
following guidelines in OP 4.12. Subsequently, CLOs held several village focus group
meetings. There are numerous records o f meetings with local leaders and PAPs presided
by the CLOs that explained the resettlement procedures. These also include WAPCo's
meetings with estate surveyors hired by the PAPs to negotiate on their behalf.
Management will ensure that the consultation, disclosure, and feedback process i s closely




                                           20

                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


monitored, through the witness NGO and through a strengthened monitoring and
evaluation system.

57.    Consultations are currently taking place in affected communities on a regular
basis through the CLOs. In Nigeria, these consultations and sensitization efforts have
focused on the additional compensationprogram and methodology, money management,
opportunities for livelihood restoration, the scope o f the CDPs, modifications to the
grievance mechanism process to make it more transparent, etc. The process of puttingin
place a witness NGO is being finalized and the NGO should be in place by early July
2008 primarily to document and witness the additional payment process, money
management training, and programs for livelihood restoration to PAPS. WAPCo will
continue to ensure comprehensive and meaningful participation of affected communities
and, through the witness NGO, document such participation inthe RAP implementation
monitoring monthly progressreports and consultationrecords.

58.    Institutional Capacity. At the time of RAP preparation in 2003-2004, an
assessment of the qualifications and experience o f WAPCo personnel responsible for
implementing EMPs andRAPSwas undertakenandwere found to be satisfactory. During
the implementation phase which started in 2005, Management became aware that
WAPCo had a high turnover of staff concerned with handling resettlement and
compensation issues. This resulted in lack of continuity and institutional memory. Thus,
Management focused on training new staff on safeguard policies, such as the workshop
held in Accra in 2007. To strengthen its existing social safeguards team, WAPCo is
ensuring that its social safeguards personnel are being adequately trained in RAP
monitoring, as well as inthe monitoring and evaluation of safeguards compliance and o f
the community development program. At the same time, WAPCo is increasingits social
safeguards staff through the recruitment of 2 staff in Nigeria and one staff member in
Ghana by June 2008. One staff each in Benin and Togo are being re-trained to handle
social safeguards issues. WAPCo also has a program for capacity building for its staff,
including a training program organizedby the International Finance Corporation (IFC) in
May 2008; and capacity building training to be organized by MIGA in July 2008.
Management will continue to monitor institutional capacity and work with WAPCo to
ensure that any potential gaps inexpertiseand/or training are addressed.

ENVIRONMENT

59.    Overview of Environmental Impact Management The WAGP pipeline passes
through the coastal waters of four countries; it crosses the beaches of each country, and
includes buriedlines o f various lengths. It connects to onshore facilities that deliver gas
into the line or regulate gas pressure and meter deliveries to customers. The scope and
breadth o f the Project presented enormous challenges from the outset, in terms o f
carrying out environmental baseline studies and impact assessments (EAs) and
developing EMPs for the 678 kilometer high-pressure land and marine gas pipeline.
Baseline environmental studies were conducted over a two-year period, documented
separately and summarized in the EAs, o f which there are five - one for each country
plus a regional EA that integrates the findings of the four and examines cumulative
impacts and issues o f regional importance. The EAs report the results of economic and



                                            21

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


environmental and social analysis o f a wide range o f alternatives - alternative ways of
achieving Project objectives as well as alternative alignments, designs, and installation
methods. The EMPs include detailed protocols and procedures for a variety o f impact
avoidance and mitigation measures, ranging from detailed workplace safety rules to a
contingency plan for protecting sea turtles should any be encountered nesting along the
beaches near construction sites. Multiple levels o f monitoring are built into the EMPs,
including actions to be undertaken by contractors, and semi-annual independent
monitoring and annual audits of EMP implementation that WAPCo imposed upon itself.
The ESAP reviewed the assemblage o f safeguards documents and found it not only
comprehensive and in compliance with OP 4.01 and the other relevant policies, but if
anything, too voluminous andwide-ranging inscope (ESAP Report, p. 57).

60.      The Project has been relatively benign in its impacts on the physical, biological,
and human environments. The only significant adverse impact has been temporary
impairment of water quality at the point of hydrotest water discharge at the Takoradi
(Ghana) end of the pipeline, which resulted in a minor fish kill, complaints from the
surrounding community, and criticism from Ghana EPA. Pipeline installation at beaches
andmajor wetland areas has been carried out wherever feasible byhorizontal directional
drilling (HDD), a more expensive technique than trenching, but one that limits the
potential for adverseimpacts on these sensitive environments. Where HDD could not be
used, onthe rockybeachesinGhana, installation was bytrenching. There arepossibilities
o f beach erosion in the future at Takoradi, but sites have been restored and will be
monitored in strict accord with permits issued by Ghana EPA; WAPCo will undertake
further actions to stabilize the beach if and when necessary. Otherwise, impacts have
been limitedto minor incidents such as contractor failure to maintain erosion controls at
one location.

61.      Interms ofhealthandsafety, topics that arealso addressedinthe EAsandEMPs,
the Project's record hasbeenequally impressive. There was one unfortunate work-related
fatality early in the Project, caused by failure to follow the established protocol for
electrical safety. Between the date o f that incident and mid-March, more than 7 million
person-hours have been worked by WAPCo and its contractors without a lost time
incident directly relatedto work. l1

62.      The Environmental and Social Advisory Panel (ESAP). Appointment o f the
independent ESAP was delayed due to procedures and approvals needed for contracting
consultants at fees higher than the maximum allowed under current rules.'* Management
considers the delay in fielding the ESAP to have been a significant factor, and that some
of the issues that led to the Request could have been avoided or more quickly identified
and resolved had this delay not occurred. Nevertheless, the ESAP's advice has proved
invaluable. It conducted its first field mission on August 6-17, 2007, with visits to all
onshore pipeline locations, communities affected by the pipeline, and government
institutions with direct responsibility for safety andthe environment. Its first report, dated

  A secondfatality occurredinNigeria onMarch 17,2008 inthe courseofanarmedrobbery.
12Due to the complexity o fworking with four Governments that all haddistinct interests inthe Project, the
ESAPmemberswere hiredas short-term consultants bythe Bank, andare beingreimbursed byWAPCo
without prejudice to their recommendations regarding the Project.


                                                   22

                                                        Management Report and Recommendation


November 2007, contains findings and recommendations to WAPCo on a wide range o f
issues, from socio-economic database development, compensation and livelihood
restoration to emergency response planning and site security. WAPCo has been receptive
to and is following the ESAP's advice.

63.     WAPCo's action plan developed during the December 2007 supervision mission
and reflected inAnnex 4 includes 12 recommended actions based inwhole or inpart on
the ESAP report, o f which six are in the process o f being implemented and six have
already been completed (see Annex 1, Item 17). In addition, ESAP experts provided
specialized advice, when requested by WAPCo or the Bank, on a number o f
implementation issues: the safety expert recommended a methodology for analyzing the
risk of anchor damage to the offshore pipeline, and the marine expert identified data
needs for evaluating the coastal erosion potential o f various beach crossing
configurations at Tema and Takoradi and techniques for monitoring erosion outcomes.
The ESAP i s planningits next mission for July-August 2008.

64.     Upstream Impact and the Escravos-Lagos GasPipeline (ELPS). The Inspection
Panel concluded that the Niger Delta (the source o f gas) and the ELPS pipeline that
transports gas from the Delta to WAGP should have been included inthe Project-affected
area and addressed in detail in the EAs. The Regional EIA acknowledges the kinds of
activities that could occur inthe gas-producing areas to meet increases indemand for gas
to which WAGP would contribute inthe future, if and when its throughput exceeded the
initial 200 MMCF/day, a development not expected to occur within the first five years o f
operation, possibly within the first ten years, and possibly not at all. The specific nature
o f the activities and any new investment, their locations and timing could not be
determined when the WAGP environmental analysis was being carried out. Moreover,
the Bank would not be in a positionto enforce EMP provisions on new gas producers or
additional investment in ELPS that may or may not occur five to ten years in the future.
As a prudent measure, however, WAPCo carried out an Integrity Study, an independent
assessment o f the ELPS pipeline to ascertain its condition, the integrity o f the system and
any risks to the Project. The collective judgment of safeguards staff in the region
(ASPEN) and the anchor (OPCQC) as well as legal and policy advice from LEGEN, was
that the WAGP "Access Code," which outlines the process and procedures for new
shippers to be eligible for transporting gas through WAGP, was the appropriate trigger
mechanism to ensure that any new upstream investment/developments involving gas
transportation through the WAGP would be appropriately vetted (due diligence would be
carried out on new shippers, including on their business practices and on applicable
national environmental regulations), consistent with Nigerian law and EA regulations.        '
This approach to upstream issues was communicated to the Board in the PAD (p.36).
Management acknowledges the Panel's finding that interconnection with WAGP has
"caused NNPC/NGC, the pipeline owners and operators, to improve the safety o f ELPS."

65.     Through the Integrity Study, the integrity o f the (old) ELPS portion linked to the
(new) WAGP was adequately assessed during Project preparation. The reason that the
Integrity Study findings and recommendations are not taken up in the Nigeria EIA i s
consistent with Management's decision that ELPS i s not an associated project o f WAGP
(see paragraph 26 above). ELPS i s owned by a different entity; it required no upgrade or


                                            23

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


investments because of WAGP. The issue o f a possible negative impact of ELPS on
WAGP's capacity was raised andit was agreedby all parties that an "intelligent pigging"
- or internal check of the pipeline usinga monitoring device ("pig") - of the entire
pipeline integrity be undertaken, usinginternal scanning with state-of-the-art equipment.
This "pigging" was carried out by NNPC/NGC, which subsequently shared the findings
with the WAGP team members. The WAGP team was satisfied with the findings and
with the necessityo f keeping critical technical and logistical information proprietary and
confidential, especially in light of the potential risks of drawing undue attention to its
vulnerability and thus leading to possible acts of sabotage. The "intelligent pigging" will
be carried out at regular intervals to continue providing assurance with regards to
operational safety.

66.    Disclosure of EA Documents. The Panel observed that the quality of safeguards
documentswas good but was concernedabout two aspects of disclosure and consultation:
(i) todisclosetheELPSIntegrityStudyand(ii) ofadequateattentionto
   failure                                                   lack
appropriate form and language in disclosing documents and holding consultations on
them.Managementwas not inapositionto disclosethe ELPS documentbecause:

   e   The IntegrityStudywas not requiredbythe Bank under its safeguardspolicies;

   e   While ELPS reliability and safety were necessary elements of WAPCo's due
        diligence, the Integrity Study was conducted for NNPC and i s NNPC's property,
       not the Bank's nor WAPCo's;

   e   NNPC considers the information in the report highly sensitive and required both
       WAPCo and the Bank to sign confidentiality agreements before releasing it to
       them; and

   e   Management concurs with NNPC's judgment, notingthat the security situation in
       the Niger Delta, with its history of pipeline sabotage, precludes public disclosure
       o f a report that includes detailed information on ELPS design, operation, and
       vulnerability not only to accidents but also to deliberate deleterious actions by
       thirdparties.

67.    Management acknowledges the Panel's finding regardingthe good quality of EA
documentation andits technical complexity. For persons accustomedto readingtechnical
documents in English (which is a common language for literate Nigerians) and with
access to the 11 locations in Nigeria in which it was disclosed, the disclosure made in
July 2004 would have been sufficient. However, acknowledging complaints from local
communities, the Bank advised WAPCo in October 2004 to make and distribute local
languagetranslations of the RAP and summaries. WAPCo prepareda Yoruba translation
ofthe RAP summary, but, through amisunderstanding, not the EMP summary. The RAP
translations were distributedto all communities along the right-of-way inNigeria inJune
2007. WAPCo has agreed to improve and expand distribution of non-technical
presentations o f key Project information inlocal languages. It is preparing translations of
the EMP summary into Yoruba and plans to disseminate it among the communities by
August 2008. This document will be more relevant to the public than the EMP for



                                            24

                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


construction. For the sensitization and consultations on compensation adjustment that
took place in May/June 2008 at 15 locations in Nigeria, and for the compensation
adjustment itself that will take place by October 2008, presentations and documents will
beprovided inYoruba andEnglish.

68.     Emergency Response and Contingency Plans. Management agrees with the
Panel that ERPs will not be effective unless the communities concerned are fully
informed about them. WAPCo agrees that before gas flows through WAGP, site specific
plansmustbe inplace andpotentially affected communities musthavebeenmade aware
of their content and have had opportunities to ask questions, seek clarifications, and
clearly understand the respective roles of WAPCo personnel, emergency response
services, local government, community leaders, and citizens in the event of any
emergency along the ROW or at one o f the facilities. WAPCo's initial focus has been on
the facilities that will be operating to deliver "free flow gas" to Takoradi - the Station at
Itoh (the Alagbado Tee), the pipeline from that station to Badagry, the Badagry Beach
Compressor Station, the offshore line, and the Takoradi Station. The Bank has reviewed
and found the ERPs to be satisfactory. Further refinements are anticipated as a result of
the forthcoming ESAP mission.

69.     Site-specific emergency response planning has been a continuous process since
WAPCo issued the system-wide ERP in May 2006. The first drafts o f the site-specific
ERPswere madeavailable to the BankinDecember2007, andWAPCo conducted"desk-
top drills" in Nigeria and Ghana to identify any needed improvements. The Bank
provided extensive comments on the drafts. WAPCo held two stakeholders' fora in
Nigeria on pipeline safety, one inLagos on December 17,2007, and one inAbeokuta on
December 18,2007. A secondrevised draft ERP was subsequentlyproduced and givento
the Bank in early April 2008. In view o f the ESAP's expertise on pipeline safety, the
Project team also solicited their review by the ESAP, which provided comments and, by
and large, found the revised ERPs to be satisfactory. ERPs and safety will be priorities
for the next planned ESAP mission in July 2008. WAPCo prepared a brochure for the
public on pipeline safety, focusing on how to recognize a gas leak and what to do (and
not do) if one thinks a leak is occurring. The brochure has been translated into French,
Yoruba, Ga, Fante and other local languages. WAPCo has distributed 1000 copies o f the
Yoruba version inNigeria. Management will continue to monitor ERP activities and the
related community awareness program to ensure that the requirements stated above are
met. Wherever feasible, the Project team would also endeavor to participate in the
community awareness programsto be conductedbyWAPCo.

70.     Fisheries Issues. Fisheries concerns of two types were brought directly to the
Panel during the course of its investigations. An NGO was concerned that the EA and
EMP for Ghanahad not taken potential impacts on the livelihoods of fisherfolk properly
into account. Intalking directly to the fishing communities, WAPCo, the Project team,
and the Panel all reached the same conclusion - that there was no environmental issue
associatedwith WAGP that affected coastalfishinginGhana.

71.     The second fisheries issue came from the Ajido community in Nigeria. Ajido
fisherfolk had experienced a poor fishing season in Badagry Lagoon in 2006 because o f



                                              25

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


material that was clogging their nets, and had concluded that spills o f bentonite used in
drillingmudfor the HDDoperation were the source ofthe problem. WAPCo investigated
the situation afier it was made known to them (the community did not complain to the
WAPCo CLO), and concluded that the substance inthe nets was algae, probably from an
algal bloom caused by nutrient enrichment from wastewater and agricultural runoff.
Several months later, that diagnosis was confirmed by forensic analysis. By means of
placing cuttings from the net in algal culture medium, Jawura Environmental Services
Ltd., a Nigerian laboratory contracted by WAPCo, confirmed that the fouling material
consisted of algae. Microscopic examination of the regeneratedplant material identified
12 genera of green algae, o f which the dominant genus was Chlorococcum, a unicellular
green alga that tends to form clumps and is frequently found innutrient-enriched waters.
This confirmed in general the explanation WAPCo had given to the Ajido fishing
community during its initial investigation of the net problem in 2006, although the
particular genus WAPCo named at the time, Spirogyra, was not found in the forensic
analysis.

72.     Management notes that the Project team informed the community that it was
unlikely, scientifically, that bentonite could have caused the clogging. The Panel's
consultant agreedthat it was scientifically impossible. Management agrees with the Panel
that the incident could have been handled more effectively in one respect: the
microscopic analysis should have been conductedimmediately after the problem became
known to WAPCo, which was by a circuitous route from the fishermen to the Panel to
Bank staff to WAPCo's Health, Environment and Safety Officer. It was not until mid-
2007 that the Bank discovered that the identification of the algae as Spirogyra was based
on appearance rather than microscopic examination, and the Bank's reaction prompted
WAPCo to contract for the analysis describedabove.

73.     From the community's point o f view, the interaction with WAPCo over this
incident has been beneficial. WAPCo has continued the program o f assistance to Ajido
that it agreed with the fishing community in2006 to help offset the poor fishing season
initially blamed on the pipeline installation. By mid-2007, WAPCo had assisted the
community to formally establish the Ajido Fishing Association, had purchased and
delivered fishing equipment according to priorities agreed with the FishingAssociation,
and had initiated a program of capacity-building, covering topics such as fishing
enterprise management, savings andthrift, and conflict resolution.

PROJECT     SUPERVISION

74.     The Project was approved by the Board in November 2004 and Project
implementation was launched in early 2005. The first supervision mission focusing on
safeguards aspects took place inJune 2005 and consistedofthree WBG senior safeguards
specialists. The IDA Partial Risk Guaranteebecameeffective inMay 2005.13 Subsequent
supervision missions took place in April 2006, October 2006, March 2007, May 2007,
November 2007 and inMay 2008. While progress reports were beingreviewedmonthly,


l3
 The riskto IDAis triggered only after the Projectreaches Commercial Operations Date (COD) whichis
defined as completion andtesting ofthe full system, includingthe compression facilities.


                                                   26

                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


there was an unfortunate gap o f ten months between the first and the second field
supervision mission, by which time implementation issues relating particularly to social
safeguards issues started emerging. Also, there were delays inresponding to complaints
byPAPs.

75.    To compound the Bank's initial inadequate supervisionoversight, particularly on
social safeguards, there was significant turnover o f WAPCo's environmental and social
team, with professionals engaged in the preparation o f the Project being replaced with
new staff duringimplementationo fthe RAP. The effects o fthese personnel changeswere
not immediately evident. In hindsight, the ultimate consequences o f disruption in
continuity at WAPCo were not fully grasped. Also, the independent oversight planned via
a three-person ESAP could not take place on account o f procedural delays inassembling
the experts.

76.    Management has taken a number o f steps to improve the quality and intensity o f
Project supervision:

       It has bolstered its field personnel through recruitment o f an experienced Task
       Manager (Senior Energy Specialist) and a Senior Social Development Specialist
       locatedinAbuja, Nigeria, and a Senior Economist located inAccra, Ghana. Local
       staff have been nominated in Benin and Togo, to be responsible for supervision
       oversight and liaisonwith the Task Manager.

       Field staff are supported by a complement o f experienced headquarters social
       development, energy, safeguards, and other staff specialists and consultants.

       Management input and coordination with the Country Office and in monitoring
       the Project has been strengthened with more periodic reviews and more efficient
       tracking o f feedback (from PAPs, contractors, governments, etc.) about issues
       arising during implementation. There will be follow-up visits to the Project site,
       starting inJuly 2008 until completion o f the additional compensation process and
       socio-economic survey in December 2008. The Country Director for Nigeria
       (who is based inAbuja) will also participate insome o fthese visits.

    0  A minimum of two Bank supervision missions of 10-14 days duration shall take
       place during the remaining construction period o f the Project, with more
       frequent/continuous formal and informal supervision though the field offices. In
       addition to technical, financial, and economic specialists, Bank supervision
       missions will routinely include the right complement o f safeguards specialists
       (environmental and social).

       Adequate budgetary resources are beingallocated for the supervision effort (about
       3 times the normal project supervision budget o f USD100,OOO). The FY09budget
       will be in the range o f USD350,000, including additional support from OPCS,
       Legal, andthe Sustainable Development Network anchor.




                                            27

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline



        The ESAP has been in place since August 2007, and has undertaken one field
        visit (another field visit is planned for July/August 2008). It would be retained
        untilphysicalcompletionofthe Project, expected inJuly2009.

        WAGP i s not only part o f the regional portfolio, but i s also included inreporting
        to the relevant Country Directors, in this case, Nigeria, Ghana, Benin and Togo.
        Funding for development and implementation of regional projects is being
        provided through the         regional  integration department,       thus  ensuring
        accountability throughout the project cycle. This will include annual regional and
        corporate reviews o fthe Project's status.

    0   Greater interaction with the Federal, State and Local Governments, NGOs,
        communities, and other stakeholders shall be maintained through the field offices
        and by the Bank's External Affairs specialists in conjunction with WAPCo, as
        well as through forthcoming supervision missions.

        Financing complex regional programs i s still a relatively recent development in
        the Bank's business, and presents significant process issues within the Bank's
        country-based business model. Inline with the recommendations o fthe FY07 IEG
        Review o f World Bank support to multi-country operations and the new Regional
        Integration Assistance Strategy recently discussed by the Board, the Africa
        Region i s developing "best practice" tool kits. These tool kits will assist task
        teams to navigate process challenges and to better achieve high standards of
        implementationmonitoringincomplex regional programs.

    0   Based on WAGP experience, the lessons learned on supervision o f public-private
        partnership projects will be documented and brought to the attention o f project
        teams handlingsimilar complex projects.

77.     Inthe future, for projects involving new borrowers/sponsors ina complex sector
with many actors/participants, a more comprehensive upstream evaluation o f the sector
environment and issues would be warranted to better assess the risks and help develop
strategies for their mitigation.


 V.       MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLANINRESPONSETO THE FINDINGS

78.     Inlight of the issues set out above, Management has prepared an Action Plan to
address past and ongoing problems, in particular, with respect to social aspects o f the
Project, such as compensation, the adoption o f appropriate grievance mechanism, and
attention to vulnerable groups. This Action Plan was discussed with the Requesters on
June 5, 2008, who were generally supportive. The recent World Bank supervision
mission(May 2008) also discussed the broad features o f the Action Plan and WAPCo has
agreed to implement the actions for which it i s responsible. Management for its part will
carefully supervise and monitor the Project and ensure the effective implementation o f
the Action Plan. There will also be further follow-up with the local communities on
specific issuesthat they have raised.



                                             28

                                                                  ManagementReport and Recommendation


    79.       Table 1below summarizes the Management Action Plan.



ISSUES                          ACTION


                                  WAPCo to undertakeconsultationsand sensitization of communitieson the
                                  methodfor livelihood restorationcompensation;and communitydevelopment
                                  programs(15 completed by June 2008; consultationswith affected
                                  communitieswill be an ongoing process). The field-basedsocialspecialist
Remedialsteps for correcting      has observedsome of the consultations.Managementwill undertakemonthly
land under-compensation;          follow-up, starting in July 2008 untilcompletionof the compensationprocess.
Livelihoodrestorationand          WAPCo prepareda programon livelihood restoration, includingthe
method for compensation;          methodologyfor additional compensationfor livelihoodrestorationfor PAPs
Compilationof baselinesocio-      usingfour zones; verification of PAPs and intra- and inter-householdaccess
economicinformation;              and claims completed in May 2008; paymentsto be distributedto PAPs by
verification of displacedpersons  October2008. Management will carefully monitorthis program,including
and vulnerablegroups (OP          through monthlyfield visits and the supervisionmission(in December 2008).
4.12)                           0 An updateof the socio-economicsurveyto be completedby December2008;
                                  with a follow-up survey update in 2010 (at the end of RAP monitoringperiod
                                  to assess incomeand livelihood impacts).The Bankwill reviewsurvey
                                  methodologyand results,which will be validated by an independent
                                  consultant.
                                  WAPCo hired IlTA Agricultural Economistwho has submitted a reporton
                                  adjusted crop and tree prices,which has been reviewed and found
Remedialsteps for correcting      acceptableto the Bank.
crop and tree under-              WAPCo to undertakecompensationof crops andtrees (basedon updated
compensation(OP 4.12)             marketrates),adjustedfor inflationto 2008 prices, and applying 4
                                  differentiated land use zones and the most current IITNFAOagricultural
                                  prices in Nigeria,by October2008. Managementwill reviewthe pricesbefore
                                  compensationpaymentsare made.
                                  WAPCoto intensifyCDP implementationstrategy,focusing on livelihood
                                  restoration;skills development;and activitiestargetedfor vulnerablegroups.
DevelopmentAssistance-            (August 2008). The CDP will be further modified, based on the findings of the
sharing in Projectbenefits (OP    updatedsocio-economicsurveys in 2008 and 2010. Managementwill
4.12)                             carefully monitorthe CDP implementationstrategy, through ongoingfield
                                  visits andthe December2008 supervisionmission.
                                  WAPCo to documentmodificationsto CDP activitiesto specifically address
                                  needsof vulnerable groups (Ongoing).
                                  WAPCo to ensurefull disclosureof livelihood restorationcompensation
                                  (underlying reasons, methodology,calculations, paymentprocess,grievance
                                  handling) during communitysensitization meetings(Ongoing, fifteen
                                  communitymeetingsheld in May and June 2008). Managementwill monitor
                                  progressin disclosing relevant informationon compensation.
Disclosureof informationand      WAPCo to continueto discusswith communitiesthe resultsof RAP Audit
consultation(OP 4.12)             (conducted in 2007) and submit RAP monitoring and consultationupdatesas
                                  partof its monthly progress report(as provided in the Project's monitoring
                                  and evaluation plan)to the Bank.
                                 WAPCo to hire an independentmonitor(witness NGO) by early July 2008 to
                                 documentand witness the payment processfor livelihoodrestoration
                                 additionalcompensation.




                                                      29

    Ghana- WestAJi.ican GasPipeline



                             Table 1. Proposed ManagementAction Plan

ISSUES                       ACTION
                                 WAPCo to ensurethat the grievance mechanism includes informationon
                                 accessibleproceduresfor third party settlementof disputes arisingfrom
                                 compensationand other aspects of the RAP, and improveddocumentationof
Grievancemechanism(OP            dispute resolution(natureof disputes, partiesinvolved, durationitiming)(July
4.12)                            2008). The Bank field visit in August 2008 will assessthe effectivenessof the
                                 grievancemechanism.
                                 WAPCo to engage in participatoryconsultationswith affected communitieson
                                 the grievancemechanismand revisethe procedures,as appropriate, based
                                 on feedback (Ongoing).
                                 WAPCo is ensuringthat its social safeguards personnelare beingadequately
                                 trained in RAP monitoring,as well as in the monitoringand evaluationof
                                 safeguardscomplianceand of the communitydevelopmentprogram
                                 (Ongoing).At the same time, WAPCo is increasingits social safeguardsstaff
                                 through the recruitmentof 2 staff in Nigeriaand one staff memberin Ghana in
Institutionalcapacity (OPiBP     June 2008. One staff each in Beninand Togo are also beingtrained to
4.12 and OMS 2.20)               handlethe social safeguards issues. Managementwill assess, on an ongoing
                                 basis,the safeguardscapacity inWAPGo and other partners(e.g., local
                                 groups,witness NGO).
                                 WAPCo safeguardsstaffto participateinthe IFC capacity building program
                                 organizedby IFC (Completedin May 2008).
                                 WAPCo to utilizean institution-buildingprogramigrantfrom MlGA by
                                 September2008.
EnvironmentalAssessmentand MitigationMeasures
Independentadvisory panel        Managementto ensurethat ESAP is retained up to July 2009, to encompass
(OP 4.01 and OP 13.05)           remainingconstruction period and initial operations.
                                 WAPCo to translate the ExecutiveSummaryof the EMPfor operationsinto
Disclosureof EA documents        Yoruba and disseminateit amongthe communitiesby August 2008.
and Consultations(OP 4.01)       Management will monitor the dissemination of the EMPs during its
                                 monthlyfield visits.

Upstream impactsand the          Management to endeavorto obtain annual data from DPR and NNPC by
ELPS (OP 4.01)                   December 2008, on the respective volumes of associatedand non-
                                 associatedgas to WAGP through ELPS.
                                 WAPCo to conduct ERP awarenessmeetingswith stakeholdersand
                                 communitiesnearWAGP facilities, priorto first gas (To be completedin June
                                 2008).
Emergency responseand            WAPCo to producea safety brochure, translate it into local languages,and
contingencyplans                 widely disseminateit (July2008).
                                 Additional Dublicawarenessmeetingsto be held in the future, and printed
                                 informationon relevantaspects of the ERPs to be distributed (Ongoing).
                                 Management will monitor the ERP awareness activities through
                                 regular field visits.




                                                    30

                                                                 ManagementReport and Recommendation



                              Table 1. Proposed Management Action Plan
                                                                                                           ~~

ISSUES                        ACTION

Project Supervision
                                                                                                             ~~


                                 Managementto ensure a minimumof two Bank supervision missionsof 10-
                                14days' duration during the remainingconstructionperiodof the Project,with
                                morefrequentlcontinuousformal and informalsupervision. In addition to
                                technical,financial, and economic specialists,Bank supervision missionsto
Mission duration,frequencyand   includeenvironmentaland social safeguardsspecialists (by December2008
expertise(OP 13.05)             for the first mission; byApril 2009 for the second mission].
                                Management input and coordinationwith the Country Office in monitoringthe
                                Projectto be strengthenedwith periodic reviewsof Projectimplementation
                                (Ongoing).
                                Management to allocate adequate budgetaryresourcesfor the supervision
                                effort -about 3 times the normalsupervisionbudget(FY08 and FYO9).
                                Management to document, basedon WAGP experience,the lessonslearned
                                on supervisionof public-private partnerships,and to bringthis to the attention
Supervision of public-private   of projectteams handling similar complexprojects.
partnerships,Action on early
warning signs- resourcesfor     Management to undertake inthe future a more comprehensiveevaluation of
                                the sector environmentaland social issuesfor projects involving new
supervision, handlingof         borrowers/sponsorsin a complexsector with many actorslparticipants.
complex regional projects(OP    Management is developing"best practice"tool kitsto assisttask teams inthe
13.05)                          Africa Region to navigateprocesschallengesand to betterachieve high
                                standards of implementationmonitoringin complex regionalprograms.(To be
                                completedby the end of FYO9).




                                      VI.       CONCLUSION

    80.      Management believes that the Bank team is making every effort to apply its
   policies and procedures and to pursue its mission statement inthe context of the Project.
   Management acknowledges and concurs with many o f the Panel's findings concerning
   environmental and social safeguards issues and supervision, as set out in Section IV and
   Annex 1. Management i s committed to fulfill the Management Action Plan described
   above and to supervise and monitor the implementation of environmental and social
   policies and procedures. Management believes that the proposed Action Plan addresses
   the Panel's concerns.




                                                    31

                                            -    Annex I
                                   Findinq , Comr ents and Actions
IssuelFinding                               Para.      CommenffAction
                                            nos.
SOCIAL ISSUES IN NIGERIA
General                                     Exec       Comment:Managementacknowledgesthat landtenure in
Panel acknowledgescomplexityof land         Sum,       West Africa, especially in Nigeria, is characterized by
tenure arrangements inWest Africa and       237        multiple property arrangements which complicate the
notesthat effortswere made under                       identificationof affected people. Underthe customary land
Projectto address relatedsocial issues.                tenure system, ownershipand controlof land follow a well-
However, by not ensuringthat WAPCo                     stratified hierarchyof authority,with the Oba or Baale at the
followed important elements of Bank                    apex, followed bythe traditional chiefs, and then byfamily
Policy, Managementundercut Bank's                      heads,' holdingland intrust for otherfamily members.
developmentcontributionto this Project.                Individualsare entitledto portionsof communal land as
More significantly, the necessary                      membersof a family and can buy and sell their own allotted
measuresto avoid impoverishmentof                      land (see Commentsand Action in Items2 and 3).
displacedpopulationswere not and still                 WAPCo hiredthe services of Estate Surveyors to inventory
are not in place.                                      the landtake and identifythe owners and their assets,
                                                       includingthe patternof ownershipas well as use of all the
                                                       affected plots. Subsequent to this exercise, and following
                                                       the Bank supervision mission in September 2006, WAPCo
                                                       used the findings of an independentestate valuator
                                                       (financedby the Bank)to computeadditional compensation
                                                       for livelihoodrestorationbasedon the definition of
                                                       replacementvalue in OP4.12. In addition, the CDP covers
                                                       more broadly a larger number of communities and
                                                       stakeholders.To better understandthe socio-economic
                                                       conditions of affectedpeople, WAPCo plans to updatethe
                                                       socio-economicsurvey and incorporatethe survey findings
                                                       into an updateof the RAP Audit and CDP.

                                                       Action: Inorder to rectify any landtenure issues leadingto
                                                       uncapturedand displaced affected people, and to comply
                                                       with Bank policies,WAPCo agreed to undertake the
                                                       following: (i) to update the RAPAudit and the socio-
                                                       economic surveyto identifyany additionaldisplaced,
                                                       affectedandlor vulnerable personsand to improve basic
                                                       data on all PAPs; the RAPAudit undertaken in 2007
                                                       identifiedabout 299 additional affected persons in Nigeria
                                                       who have not yet receivedcompensation; (ii) prior to
                                                       initiatingadditionalcompensationto PAPsto reflect full
                                                       replacementcostfor lost assets, a thorough exercise will be
                                                       undertakento identifyany further affected persons (seealso
                                                       Items2, 4 and 7);(iii) adjustmentswill be madeto the
                                                       CDPs, especiallyfor vulnerable personsand those in need
                                                       of more incomegeneratingopportunities;and (iv)WAPCo
                                                       will undertakeyearly RAP monitoringand the outcome will
                                                       be validated by an independententity. Starting in July 2008,
                                                       monthly Bankfollow-up visits, includingthe Bank
                                                       supervision missionin December2008, will closely monitor
                                                       these actions.



   1Adedipe, N.O., et al(l998). Ruralcommunaltenure regimesand privatelandownershipinwestern Nigeria. SD:
   Dimensions,FAO.

                                                                                                          32

                                                                 Management Report and Recommendation



   Issue/Finding                             Para. Comment/Action
                                             nos.
-  BaselineSocio-EconomicData
2. Baselineinformation                       118-  Comment: Although the total numberof claimants by
   Panelfound that Managementdid not         127   householdalongthe ROWwas counted, several problems
   ensurethat the requisite socio-economic         arosefrom lack of breakdownof householddata. For
   informationwas gatheredas calledfor in          example, the complexityof the land tenure system in Nigeria
   the Bank Policy.This does not comply            compoundedthe identificationof key respondents. In
   with OP 4.12. The Policy callsfor a socio-      addition, there were difficulties in identifyinghousehold
   economic study of the displaced persons.        memberswithin the multi-layeredpropertyownership
   The Policyrequirementscannot be met             structure. Inother cases, it was hardto find respondents,
   by generaldata on the project affected          especiallyinfishing villages. Prior to providingadditional
   area or populations nor by extrapolation        compensationto the master list of affectedpeople,a
   from a sample.The Panelfinds that the           systematic reviewof any potentialadditionalaffected
   absence of adequate baseline                    personswill be undertaken, and will involvethe traditional
   informationmakes it impossibleto ensure         leadersand local government (seeAction in Item 1).
   that the impacts and potential                  WAPCo has taken the following correctivemeasures:land
   impoverishmentrisksfacing local people          and crop compensationrateswere recalculatedusingfour
   are properlyaddressed, as required              zones; sensitization meetingsand consultationswere held
   underthe Bank's ResettlementPolicy.             and are ongoing on the additionalcompensation,training on
                                                   money managementand small businesses,and on
                                                   opportunitiesfor livelihoodrestoration;vulnerable groups for
                                                   special attention are being identified;and the monitoring
                                                   system is beingstrengthened,includinghiringof qualified
                                                   personnelfor RAP implementation.
                                                   An independentRAPAudit was completed in 2007. As
                                                   indicatedin Item 1,the RAP audit identifiedadditional PAPS.
                                                   The audit supportedthe Bank mission's recommendations
                                                   for additionalcompensationin Nigeriaand for updatingthe
                                                   socio-economicsurvey baseline in 2008, to be followed by a
                                                   subsequent survey update in 2010. The ESAP report
                                                   commendedWAPCofor establishinggood community
                                                   relationsprograms in the CDPs, and also recommended,
                                                   among other actions, a reviewof the land, tree and crop
                                                   rates to ensure replacementvalue.

                                                   Action: WAPCo has agreed to updatethe socio-economic
                                                   survey baseline by December2008, the resultsof which will
                                                   be usedto improvedatabaseanalysisof affected and
                                                   vulnerable PAPS; and will provide input to modifyingthe
                                                   thrust of CDPs. A second survey updatewill be undertaken
                                                   in 2010 to help ensurethat the impactsand potential
                                                   impoverishmentrisksfacing local people are properly
                                                   addressed(see Item 5 below).These updateswill be
                                                   monitoredthrough monthly Bankfollow-up visits to the
                                                   Projectsites.
                                                   Inthe context of the verification of additionalcompensation
                                                   as partof the livelihoodrestoration program,WAPCo has
                                                   agreed to paymentsreflectingfull replacementcosts. The
                                                   Bank supervision mission in May2008 observedsome of
                                                   the 15town hall/sensitization meetings in each of the key
                                                   communities.Additional consultationsto be conducted in
                                                   June and July 2008, will sensitizecommunitiesand
                                                   traditionalrulers on the compensationexercise, and will
                                                   derify current status of: (i) land ownership; (ii) deceased


                                                 33

   Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline



IssuelFinding                             Para. Comment/Action
                                          nos.
                                                claimants;and (iii) outstanding land disputes. Consultations
                                                                                                           ~    ~~




                                                with affectedcommunitieswill be an ongoing process. Field-
                                                based Bank staff will monitor these consultations and
                                                document feedback from PAPs. WAPCo's updatedsocio-
                                                economic survey resultswill be used to improveits
                                                database and assist with the reviewand design of CDPs.
                                                Ongoing Bankfield visits and the supervisionmission in
                                                December 2008 will reviewthe socio-economic survey
                                                methodologyand results (to be validated by an independent
                                                consultant), as well as the CDP implementation strategy
                                                and additional compensationprogram.
                                                Under its CorporateSocial ResponsibilityProgram,WAPCo
                                                will work with governmental and non-governmentalbodiesto
                                                ensure a coordinatedapproachto community support and
                                                developmentunder its CDP.
Number of displacedpersons                128-  Comment:Managementconcurs that traditionaland multi-
Panelfinds that complexitiesof traditional136   layeredpropertyand use rights in Nigeriaare complex and it
land tenure system, wherein large               should have vigorously supportedWAPCo in differentiating
extendedfamilies control land and heads         multiplelayers of property, rightsand dynamics of inter-
of families distribute user rights among        householdaccess.
membersof the extendedfamily, were              The initialcompensationwas basedon the information
not adequatelytaken into account. This          providedby the NigerianEstateSurveyor,which included
does not complywith OP 4.12 requiring           1,557 private landownersand 928 tenants - a total of 2,485
studieson land tenure and transfer              PAPs, affected in terms of losingtheir land holdings.About
systems.The size and economic                   143residential plots were affected,37 of which had civil
holdingsof the extendedfamilies was -
and still is - unknown.                         structures.The numberof affected peoplewas estimated at
                                                8,647 in 2004, and WAPCO will continueto verify and
Panelfurther observesthat numberof              updatethis socio-economicbaselinedata to be completed
displaced persons reportedin the RAP            by end-2008. Most affected households-except for the 8
iNas determinedusinga figure for                percentwho had 50 percent or more land area within the
`average" household size which the RAP          ROW-lost only relativelysmall amounts of land. Most of
itself notes is "surprisinglylow." The          the lands in the ROW can still be usedfor grazing,foot
Panel expert determinedthat the size of         traffic, and small-scale cultivation.
the displaced populationseems to be
Jnderestimatedas a result of the                Action: As part of the livelihoodrestoration program,
nethodology usedfor their identification.       WAPCowill reviewand update the initial listing of the PAPs
The proportionof extendedfamily's               that capturedthe following variables: (i)age; (ii) gender; (iii)
ioldings taken by the WAPCo land                family name; and (iv)community name, with a view to
acquisitionis unknown. It may be that the       capturingand identifyingany newclaimants who would also
:akingshad nominal impactson the                be eligiblefor increasedcompensationpayments (see Item
)vera11 productivecapacity of the               7).
3xtended family. However, it may also be        WAPCo agreed to updatethe 2004 socio-economic baseline
:hecase that some were                          survey by end 2008; the new baselinedata would help in
jisproportionatelydamaged.Without               refininglivelihoodrestorationactivities, in monitoring, and in
mowledgeof the socio-economic                   tracking changes in income.A subsequentupdate of the
irganization, it is impossibleto assess         socio-economicsurvey will be undertakenin 2010 to assess
.heimpoverishmentrisk.                          incomeand livelihoodimpacts.These resultswill be
                                                validated by an independentconsultant.The Bank field visit
                                                in August 2008 will discuss with WAPCo the socio-economic

                                          -     baselineindicatorsthat will be measuredthrough the survey
                                                to ensurethat a sufficient baselineof PAPs'socio-economic
                                                conditionsis established.Once the survev is comdeted in


                                                                                                   34

-                                           -                    Management Report and Recommendation



No. IssuelFinding                           Para. CommentlAction
                                            nos.
                                                  December2008, the survey informationwill feed into
                                                  WAPCo's existingdatabase for monitoringand evaluation
                                                  purposes,and will also provideuseful input into the design
                                                  of its CDPs.
4.  Vulnerablegroups                        137-  Comment: Managementconcurs with the Panel's finding of
   Panelfinds that Bank Managementfailed    138   weak attentionto vulnerablegroups beyond measuresto
   to ensurethat the Sponsor performedan          includewomen, youth, and disabled into existing programs.
   adequate analysis of socio-economic            This remains a serious challengeand WAPCo is aware of
   risks to vulnerable peoples.This does not      the importanceof dedicatingresourcesto first
   complywith Bank Policyon Involuntary           understandingthe needs of vulnerablegroups, then
   Resettlement,and denied these peoples          providingactionsto reducetheir vulnerabilityand
   protections providedunder the Policy.          impoverishmentrisk. The first and second phasesof the
   Since no studies were carriedout or            CDP, which focused on community infrastructure,such as
   mitigationhasoccurred, populationalong         schools and hospitals, are nearly complete.
   ROW remainsat risk.
                                                  Action:WAPCo will implementthe CDP and focus on skills
                                                  acquisitionand vocationaltrainingfor vulnerable groups in
                                                  the third phase.As agreed with WAPCo, these actions may
                                                  rangefrom provisionof rampsfor disabled students in
                                                  schools to technicalsupportfor special vocational programs
                                                  for vulnerable groups. On the basis of the RAP Audit and
                                                  the updateof socio-economicbaselinesurvey to be
                                                  undertakenin 2008, WAPCo will continueto explore ways of
                                                  makingthe CDP flexible, taking into account the needs and
                                                  full participationof vulnerablegroups (see also Item 9,
                                                  below).The Bankfield visit in August 2008 will reviewthe
                                                  CDP implementationstrategy, especially with regardto
-                                                 vulnerable groups.
5. Land andproductive assets of             139-  Comment:Managementconcurs with the Panel'sfinding
   displacedpersons                         143,  that the RAP should have used more specific informationon
   Panelfinds that Managementdid not        316   affected householdsto form the basisfor a socio-economic
   ensurethat Project plannersused                profile.At the same time, Managementwas also aware of
   reliableand specific data on individuals       threefactors that constrainedcollection of extensive socio-
   or householdsaffected by the ROW,              economic data in 2004. Firstwere difficulties in identifying
   rather than assumptions,averages, and          legitimaterespondentsin the survey, and problemswith
   relatedarguments.                              locatingmany respondents due to the complex property
   As result of these flaws in methodology,       ownership and multi-layeredaccess rights. Second was the
   Projectdocuments presentedto the               extensivecoverageof affected land in Nigeria: 144 hectares
   Boardat the time of Project approval           in 23 communities, of which 82 percentwere agricultural
   includedincorrectand incomplete                croplands and 9 percentwere usedfor agroforestry. Only 4
   informationon livelihoodand                    percentof the land taken had physical structures (e.g.,
   impoverishmentrisks.This was                   buildings, houses) on it. Third was the problemof
   inconsistentwith OMS 2.20 and OP 4.12.         determining land values which was often hindered by the
                                                  paucityof public land registration records.
                                                  The majorityof directlyaffected persons(72 percent)were
                                                  engaged in subsistenceagriculture and related land-based
                                                  activities. In contrast,fishing accountedfor less than 10
                                                  percentof the PAPS.Cropfarming (cassava, maize,
                                                  plantain, yam, oil palm, and cocoyam) was the dominant

-                                           -     source of employment,for 75 percent of those who were
                                                  surveyed in 2003, followed by trading, commerce, and
                                                  professionalactivities (13 percent), and fishing (4 percent).


                                                35

   Ghana- WestAfrican Gas Pipeline              -
 IssuelFinding                                  Para.      CommentlAction
                                                nos.
                                                           This broadsocio-economic description, however, refersonly
                                                           to about 20 percentof the total numberof PAPs that were
                                                           included in the householdsurvey sample.

                                                           Resultsfrom the sampling of 125 PAP households showed
                                                           an average annualfood expenditureof USDI02, which was
                                                           muchlower than the yearly averagefor the Southwest
                                                           regionof USD324 in 2003-2004.*This is consistentwith the
                                                           69 percent poverty incidencein the region during the same
                                                           years, where close to one-thirdof the rural population in
                                                           Ogun Statewas classified as "extremepoor," living on less
                                                           than USDI.OO a day. The resultsalso showed that 21
                                                           percentof PAPs surveyed had average per capita annual
                                                           incomes betweenUSD500-1,000,which was significantly
                                                           higherthan the nationalaverage of USD300in 2003.3
                                                           However,the 2004 RAP report notedthat the survey results
                                                           on incomewere not reliable,and so the figures "are not an
                                                           accuratereporting of all incomesources." Indeed,the
                                                           problemof acquiring good incomeand socio-economic
                                                           informationwas discussedwith WAPCo during the Bank
                                                           supervisionmission in December 2007.
                                                           As a corrective measure, WAPCo hiredthe services of a
                                                           Nigeriancompany, Estate Surveyors, to carry out an
                                                           inventoryof landtake, and to identifythe owners and assets
                                                           on the land, the patternof ownership, and use of all the
                                                           affectedplots.WAPCo also delegatedto Estate Surveyors
                                                           the negotiationswith the PAPs.A RAPAudit was also
                                                           carriedout to assess RAP implementation,and where
                                                           informationgaps were detected, WAPCo will address these
                                                           gaps throughfollow-up updatesof the socio-economic
                                                           surveys (2008 and 2010), conductingextensive
                                                           consultationsand recordingfeedbackfrom PAPs, and
                                                           strengtheningRAP monitoring.

                                                           Action: WAPCo is updatingand developinga Project
                                                           managementinformationsystem that will contain detailed
                                                           data on all affected individualsand/or households.This
                                                           informationsystem will provide input for updatingthe socio-
                                                           economicsurvey baselineand for monitoringand evaluation
                                                           purposes.WAPCo has also agreed that the results of the
                                                           updatedsocio economic surveys will be used to tailor future
                                                           targeted interventionsin the CDPs.The August 2008field
                                                           visit will assist WAPCo in devising a survey instrumentthat
                                                           can better identifyPAPs'socio-economic conditionsand
                                                           reflectchanges in incomelevels.
ILossof Livelihood,Under-
 Compensationand Harm



   w.rate
   NationalBureau o f Statistics, 2004. "Poverty Profile 2004," FederalRepublic ofNigeria.
                                  The exchange      applied in 2003-04 was USD1.OO =N133.3
   NationalBureauof Statistics, 2005. "The Nigerian Statistical Factsheetson Economic and Social Development."
  FederalRepublic ofNigeriahttp//www.nigerianstat.gov.ng/fact-sheets

                                                                                                             36

                                                                   Management Report and Recommendation
-
No. IssuelFinding                            Para.  CommentlAction
                                             nos.
6. Land-for-Landoption                        165-  Comment:Managementconcurswith the Panel'sfinding
   Panelfinds that a land-based               179   that while the land-for-landoption was offered, WAPCo may
   resettlementoption, describedas an               not have used a strongand convincingapproach to PAPs to
   alternativewithin the RAP and                    select this option. PAPs hadthe optionof being
   encouraged as a preferencein OP 4.12,            compensatedin cash or land-for-landin 2004. Some
   was not effectivelyoffered to the                replacementland parcelswere identifiedalong the Ota-
   displaced personsas a viable optionfor           Ewekoroand Ota-ldirokoaxis, which were convenient
   livelihoodrestoration.This is inconsistent       locationsrelativeto the ROW. PAPs were allowed to select
   with the provisions and objectivesof OP          their own landsfor replacement. However,the majorityof
   4.12.                                            PAPs optedfor cash, with the exceptionof two families that
                                                    optedfor a land-swap.It should be notedthat, for the
                                                    additionalcompensation, these lands are no longer
                                                    availablefor the land-for-landexchange.
                                                    The RAP Audit notedtwo reasonsfor the preferencefor
                                                    cash over land. Firstwas the relativelysmall percent of land
                                                    take, with only an averageof 8 percentof PAPs having land
                                                    takes exceeding 50 percent or more of their total landwithin
                                                    the ROW. Second were numerous barriersto identifying
                                                    replacementlandssuch as lack of productivelands nearby
                                                    and the risk of Governmentexpropriation. Also, the
                                                    presenceof WAGP in the area temporarily inflated land
                                                    prices.Those PAPswho were aware of the land-for-land
                                                    option reportedthat it was complicatedand not perceivedto
                                                    be a realisticalternativeoption to cash. Of the sample
                                                    interviewedduring the RAPAudit, 47 percent had
                                                    purchasedland with the compensation(though not always in
                                                    the surroundingareas); indicatingpreferencefor purchasing
                                                    their own lands.


                                                    Action: ESAP recommendedthat WAPCo "should analyze
                                                    the reasons that led to the overwhelmingprovisionof cash
                                                    compensation; and the use and success of the cash
                                                    compensationin re-establishingassets and livelihood"
                                                    (ESAP Mission Report, November2007). The upcoming
                                                    Bank field visits and supervisionmission(December2008)
                                                    will follow up and assistWAPCo in understandingbetter the
                                                    dynamics behindthe PAPs' preferencesfor cash.

                                                    Starting in July 2008, monthlyBankfield visits to the Project
                                                    sites will ensurethat the additionalcompensation has been
                                                    effectively implemented.The Bankfield visit in August 2008
                                                    will also work closelywith WAPCo to eliminate the
                                                    "transactioncosts" to PAPs and improve its delivery of
                                                    moneymanagementand livelihoodoptions. The witness
                                                    NGOwill providereal-timefeedback to WAPCo, as will the
                                                    Bank field-basedteam on the quality of delivery of the
                                                    additional paymentsand livelihoodrestoration activities.
7  Livelihoodrestoration and method to       180-   Comment:Managementconcurs with the Panel'sfinding
   establishcash compensation                198    and notes that at the time the RAP was agreed with the
   RAPtransferred burdenfor restorationof           World Bank in 2004 as one of the conditionsfor the
-  ivelihoodonto displaced persons,once             investmentguarantee,WAPCo agreed to pay "market value"
   :hey had obtainedcash compensation,              for all assets impactedby the Project.These would include
                                                    lands, crops, structures, businesses, churches and other

                                                  37

-     Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline
                                             -
No. IssuelFinding
            ~   ~~                            Para. CommentIAction
                                              nos.
   without providingadditionalassistanceas          religiousstructures, and tombs. Negotiationsfor land
   called for in Bank Policy. Panelfinds that       acquisitionand asset replacementbegan in 2003; WAPCo
   issuesof livelihoodrestoration,                  used the OPTS of the LagosChamber of Commerceto
   resettlementassistance beyond                    calculatethe compensation ratesfor assets like land and
   compensation, and benefit-sharingwere            crops. At the 1998OPTS rate, lands acquiredfor oil and gas
   not properly negotiatedwith displaced            projectswere compensated at NGNlO h 2 , and WAPCo
   persons.This does not complywith Bank            directed EstateSurveyors to multiplythe rate 10times and
   Policyon InvoluntaryResettlement.                later increasedit by 75 percentfor landsand 50 percentfor
   The Panelfinds that Managementfailed             crops.
   to complywith the Bank's Policyon                During Bank supervision missionsin 2005 and 2006, the
    InvoluntaryResettlementby accepting             Bank noted, and WAPCo agreed, that an audit of the cash
   the use of a formula that is not basedon         compensationpayments was required,to correct errors that
   the livelihoodrestorationobjectives of OP        resultedin paymentsof only one-tenthof what was originally
   4.12.                                            estimated.To address this issue, Management recruited an
   Moreover,the Paneldiscovereda major              estate evaluator and lawyer to ensurethat the payments
   flaw in how stated approach was applied,         reflected replacementcosts and to a level that would allow
   and that the agreed upon 10-fold                 for restorationof livelihoods.Becauseof the complexitiesof
   multiplier in providingcompensationwas           land tenure issues, this work took longer to accomplish than
   not applied.As a result, the displaced           originallyenvisaged.The findings showedthat adjustingfor
   peoplewere paidone-tenthof what was              inflation,the average rate across three land use zones
   planned in RAP.This has resulted in a            identified by the estate evaluatorwas NGNl81 per sq m;
   majorfailureto complywith Bank Policy            they also indicatedthat evenwith just one-tenth of what was
   on InvoluntaryResettlement,and to                supposedto be paid, the original RAP rateswere
   ensurethat displaced peopleare at least          reasonablyclose to market values. After further discussions
   as well-off as beforedisplacementas              betweenWAPCo and Management, it was agreed that
   requiredby this Policy.                          adjustmentswere neededto ensure that additional
   Furthermore, Panelfound that                     compensationreflectedthe full replacementcost despite
   compensation methodologydid not take             less-than-idealmarketinformation; unclear propertyrights
   into account incomeforegonefor the loss          and boundaries;and variations in unit pricing.WAPCo
   of perennialcrops. In addition, contraryto       increasedthe numberof zones from three to four to better
   Bank Policy, Panelfinds that transaction         representland costs and land use differentiation in more
   costs were borne by displacedpersons,            urbanizedsegmentsof the ROW.The ESAP has also
   which further reducedtheir chances of            recommendedcorrectingthe under-valuationof non-land
   beingas well off after transactionas             assets such as crops and trees. WAPCo has reviewedand
   before.                                          determinedthat prevailingmarketvalues were applied for
                                                    the computationof the rates usedfor compensationof
                                                    structures carriedout in 2005. It is therefore not considered
                                                    necessaryto includestructures in the additional
                                                    compensationexercise.
                                                    WAPCo is currently implementingthree programsaimed at
                                                    restoringlivelihoods.As recommendedin the ESAP mission
                                                    report, these include:(i) provisionof practicaltrainingon
                                                    moneymanagementand offeringopportunitiesfor small
                                                    business investments, supplementedwith microfinancing;
                                                    (ii)communitydevelopment sub-projectsthat provide basic
                                                    social servicesand expandingthese to infrastructure
                                                    support like marketsand feeder roads that directly impact
                                                    agricultural production; and (iii) longer-term assistanceto
                                                    PAPS,includingthe formation of agricultural support groups
                                                    and vocationalskills training.

                                                    Action: WAPCo has allocated budgetary resourcesfor
                                                    additionalcompensationfor livelihood restoration.WAPCo


                                                                                                        38

                                         -                     Management Report and Recommendation



IssuelFinding                             Para.  CommentlAction
                                          nos.
                                                 will effect paymentto existingand newly identified PAPs
                                                 based on the findings of the World Bank hired local estate
                                                 consultant, who hasfixed zonal land compensationrates
                                                 based on market value. WAPCo has also obtained current
                                                 crop ratesfrom an Agricultural Economistfrom IITA, and will
                                                 apply these ratesto correct the shortfall in crop payments,
                                                 factoring in inflation. Managementwill review these prices
                                                 beforecompensation payments are made.
                                                 Prior to future disbursementsfor additionalcompensation
                                                 under the livelihoodrestoration program,WAPCo has
                                                 undertakenseveralcommunitysensitizationand
                                                 consultationson the program,and plansto provide
                                                 appropriatetraining to PAPs giventhe challenges of
                                                 deliveringrelatively large amountsof cash in light of security
                                                 issuesand balancingcash preferenceswith livelihoodand
                                                 moneymanagement programs.The monthly Bankfollow-up
                                                 visits to the Projectsites will monitorthe extent and quality
                                                 of community sensitization.Together with the witness NGO,
                                                 Bankfield-basedstaff will work to ensurethat there is better
                                                 documentation of these meetings, and that the outcomes of
                                                 the consultationson the methodologyfor additional
                                                 compensationand other related issuesare also included in
                                                 the monthly RAP implementationmonitoring(WAPCo
                                                 regularlyprovides the monitoringreportsto the Bank).The
                                                 socio-economicsurvey, to be completed by December
                                                 2008, is expectedto improveexisting baseline information,
                                                 and will assist in the design of livelihoodrestoration
                                                 programs. Further, the Bankfield visit in August 2008 will
                                                 assistWAPCo in devising a survey instrumentthat can
                                                 better reflectchanges in incomelevels.
Remedialsteps                             205-   Comment: Managementacknowledgesthat cornpensation,
Panelobserves that Managementand          208    especiallyin Nigeria, neededto be adjusted to better reflect
WAPCo recognizedthat under-                      replacementvalue and to restore livelihoods.To support the
compensationoccurred, and are                    reviewof compensationrates, the Bank assistedWAPCo
preparingfor another compensation                through hiringtwo consultants (an estateevaluator and
disbursal. Panel notes and appreciates           lawyer)to assess the under-valuedland and other assets.
these actions.                                   Basedon the consultants' reports,WAPCo calculated
Panel is concerned, however, that this is        additional paymentsfor livelihood restorationbased on
beingdone without consultationwith               differentialland values estimatedfor three zones.WAPCo
displaced peoples, identifyingor                 later revisedthis to four zones to better reflect differences in
preparingmitigationfor at-risk                   the urbanand peri-urbanzones in the ROW. The adjusted
populations,without setting clear                values were basedon available market information,
eligibilityrequirementsbasedon local             includingupdated buying-and-sellingprices,and
landtenure, without correctionfor                predominant land use. Eligibilitywas verified, and still
transaction cost error discussed above,          continues to be verified at several levels, including previous
without benefit-sharingprovisionsfor             claimants'status; multi-layeredproperty rights; presenceof
displaced population,and without                 new claimants(299 in Nigeria; 3 in Togo; and 5 in Ghana,
determiningwhether cash compensation             and possibly more); parties to ongoing claimants'disputes;
is or is not the appropriate instrumentto        affirmation/affidavitand use of communitystructure; and
be usedto avoid Project-induced                  claims of family memberswho did not receivetheir entitled
impoverishment.                                  shares from family heads who received initialcompensation
                                                 payments.
                                                 While Managementconcurswith ESAPfindings that "while


                                               39

-      Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline   -
No. IssuelFinding                        Para. CommentlAction
                                         nos.
                                               [cash compensation]is the easier optionto implement",the
                                               Projectwill needto addressthe "welfare hazards"
                                               associatedwith cash payments.The ESAP recommended
                                               that WAPCo provide "practicaltrainingon howto usecash."
                                               Another suggestionwas to requirePAPs to attend
                                               "communitymeetingsto discuss the problemsof cash
                                               mismanagement." Lastly, the ESAPrecommendedthat
                                               WAPCo provide"future in-kind options but these should be
                                               spelled out in detail."WAPCo is applyinglessons learned
                                               from the 2004 cash compensation, verifying eligibilityfor
                                               each parceland openlyand transparentlydiscussingthe
                                               methodologyfor calculatingadditionalcompensationwith
                                               PAPs and local leaders.WAPCo is also reviewingways of
                                               eliminating"transactioncosts"to PAPs by ensuring a
                                               transparentasset valuation process,and to improve its
                                               delivery of money managementand livelihoodopportunities.
                                               The witness NGO will provide real-timefeedback to WAPCo
                                               on the additional payments.

                                               Action: Systematicconsultationswere held in Mayand
                                               June 2008 with affected communities in which the
                                               methodologyfor additionalcompensationand the scope of
                                               the CDP were discussed. These consultationsand
                                               sensitizationefforts will continue.The consultationsincluded
                                               explanationsconcerningthe basisfor computingtheir
                                               entitlements,taking into account the compoundedinflation
                                               factor for 2003 through 2008 and differentiatedland usefor
                                               zonal land compensationrates as compensation
                                               benchmarks,and applicationof the most current IlTA
                                               agricultural pricesfor Nigeria. Monthly Bankfollow-up visits
                                               to the Project sites will monitor progress in disclosing
                                               relevant informationon compensationand community
                                               sensitization.
                                               Overall, Management believes that, with this adjusted
                                               resettlementpackage to be implementedand a validation of
                                               all eligible PAPs, the affected peoplewill view this as an
                                               opportunityfor improvinglivelihoods.WAPCo is currently
                                               putting in place an independent monitor (Le., witness NGO),
                                               who will startwork in early July 2008 to document and
                                               observe the payment processfor additionalcompensation,
                                               which will be completedby October 2008. The resultsof the
                                               socio-economicsurvey, to befinalized by December2008,
                                               are expectedto improvethis baselineinformationas a
                                               foundationfor design of livelihoodrestorationprograms.
                                               Further,the Bankfield visit in August 2008 will assist
                                               WAPCo in devising a survey instrumentthat can better
                                               reflect changes in incomelevels.
3. DevelopmentAssistance     -Sharing in 226-  Comment:An independentPNNPRA was conducted in
   Project Benefits                      237   Nigeria, Benin,Togo and Ghanafrom 2003 to 2006 as the
   Panelfinds that Management permitted        basisfor the formulation of the CDP programs.The

-  3n involuntaryresettlementto begin          operationalobjective of the program is to improvethe living
   inrithouta developmentassistance            conditionsof the inhabitantsof the communitiesconcerned
   :omponent as required by OP 4.12 that       by providingsupportto strengthentheir capacity to analyse


                                                                                                  40

                                          -                    Management Report andRecommendation



IssuelFinding                             Para. CommentlAction
                                          nos.
would providetargeted investment                their own situation, organisethemselvesand undertake
resourcesto enable the persons                  appropriate economic and other activities (includingthe
displaced by Projectto share in Project         buildingof necessary infrastructure).These endeavorswill
benefits.                                       makecrucial contributionsto povertyreductionand the
                                                improvementof PAPS'standard of living. Some of the
                                                recommendationswhich WAPCo is implementingnow
                                                include: investmentin programsaimed at diversifying
                                                incomestreamsthrough skill acquisition,small scale
                                                business development,and vocationaltraining programs.
                                                WAPCofinanced the constructionof manyfacilities under
                                                the CDP (see paragraph50 above). Although they varied by
                                                site, these facilities addressedbasic needs, including
                                                constructionof schools and healthcenters.The ESAP
                                                highlightedthe positive(and appreciative)feedback on the
                                                CDP. However,both reports recommendedthat the CDP
                                                may needto movefrom a focus largelyon "bricks and
                                                mortar"types of programs to moresupport for training and
                                                livelihoodrelated activities.WAPCo has internalizedthis
                                                feedback and is developinglonger-term programsof
                                                communityassistance.
                                                Action: WAPCo has agreed to reviewthe scope of the third
                                                phase of the CDP, which will focus on skill acquisition and
                                                vocationaltraining. Furthermore,this will includesupportfor
                                                any newly identifiedaffected people basedon the findings of
                                                the RAPAudit, the livelihood restoration programand the
                                                proposed2008 socio-economicsurvey update.WAPCo has
                                                also agreedto strengthenits monitoringand evaluation
                                                system by the end of 2008 to include incomeand poverty
                                                indicatorsfor affected people. On the basis of the RAPAudit
                                                and the socio-economic survey updateto be undertaken,
                                                WAPCo will continueto exploreways of makingthe CDP
                                                flexible and of taking intoaccount the needs and full
                                                participationof affectedcommunities.The Bank's monthly
                                                field visits (commencingin August 2008) and supervision
                                                mission (December2008) will reviewthe CDP
                                                implementationstrategy.
Disclosureof informationand               258-  Comment: Managementacknowledgesthe late preparation
Consultation                              286   of executivesummaries of the RAP in local languages,
The Panelfound no evidence of attempts          which was not undertakenuntil 2007. The Bank had advised
to meaningfullypresentthe draft RAPto           WAPCo to provide local translations in October 2004, in
the persons to be displaced. Panelfinds         responseto complaints by local communities,but the
there was a failure to adequately disclose      translationswere not completed untilJune 2007. The RAP
critical RAP informationnecessaryfor            was translated into Yoruba, as well as local languagesin the
displaced personsto make meaningful,            Projectareas in Benin, Togo, and Ghana.
informedchoices about livelihood                The EA and RAPSwere distributedand disclosed in the
restoration.This does not complywith            Infoshop; in WAPCo's website; and at 11towns or
3P 4.12 on InvoluntaryResettlement,or           communities in-country(including Badagty, Ado-Odo/Ota,
with Bank's Policyon Disclosureof               and Ifo) in July 2004 in compliancewith the requirementsof
Information.                                    OP 4.01. Since 2004, WAPCo has been continuously
Yoruba translation of executivesummary          consulting Projectaffected communitiesregarding
Df RAP was preparedabout 24 months              compensation. DuringRAP preparation,records indicate
'ollowingthe last compensation payment.         that variousfocus group meetings were held in several
3uringfield visit in July 2007, Panel           communitiesin Nigeriato explainthe RAP.


                                              41

   Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline



IssuelFinding                            Para. CommentlActiZ
                                         nos.
found no evidence of distributionof this       WAPCo undertookseveral community consultationsand
document in key resettlementarea of            sensitizationsessions with PAPs in 2004 in which the
Igbesa. Regardlessof distribution, Panel       proposedlivelihoodrestoration program and methodology
finds that disseminatingsuch information       for compensationwas explained.WAPCo also hired CLOs,
on livelihood, compensationand other           who continued the consultation processes. Currently, in
resettlemententitlementsyears after the        2007-2008,WAPCo continuesto engage affected
displaced persons havemade decisions           communitieson such matters as: (i) the grievance
on these matters is neither meaningful         mechanism process; (ii) the resultsof the RAP Audit
nor timely. This does not complywith           conducted in 2007; and (iii) the CDPs and the outcomeof
Bank Policieson Involuntary                    the socio-economicsurvey updates.
Resettlementand Disclosureof
Information.
Panelfound only limitedevidencethat            Action: WAPCo is translatingthe ExecutiveSummaryof the

effortswere madeto integrate                   EMPfor operations into Yoruba and will discuss and

consultationprocess into preparationof         disseminate it among the affected communitiesby August

RAP, and in particularto inform displaced      2008. WAPCo will continue to ensurea comprehensiveand

personsof their entitlementsunder the          meaningful participationof the affected communitieson the

RAP. This lack of meaningfuland timely         resultsof the RAPAudit (conductedin 2007), and will

consultationprevented participationand         submit RAP monitoringand consultationupdates as part of

informednegotiationof resettlement             the monthly progress report (as providedin the Project's

options by displaced persons as called         monitoringand evaluation plan)to the Bank. The monthly

for in OP 4.12. Panelfinds that                Bank follow-up visits to the Projectsites will monitorthe

Managementdid not provideadequate              extent and qualityof disclosure and community

guidance and instructionsto Project            sensitization.

Sponsorto carry out meaningful                 As noted in Items7 and 8 above, in early June 2008,
consultationwith displaced people.             WAPCo completedconsultationsand sensitizationof
                                               communitiesconcerningthe methodologyfor livelihood
                                               restorationcompensationas well as the scope of the third
                                               phaseof the CDPs, and will continueto hold sensitization
                                               meetingswith the affectedcommunities.
                                               Also, as noted in Item 8 above, WAPCo is currently putting
                                               in placea witness NGO to document and witness the
                                               payment processfor the livelihood restoration program
                                               under which additionalcompensationwill be paidto PAPs.
                                               The Bankfield visit in August 2008 will follow up closely on
                                               these actions.
                                               Finally,WAPCo will submit RAP monitoringand consultation
                                               updates as part of its monthly progress reporting. Field-
                                               based Bank staff will monitor these actions through their
                                               ongoingsupervisionefforts.
GrievanceMechanism                       288-  Comment:Although the grievance mechanism was
Panel notesthat without meaningful       296   developedand shared with communityrepresentatives,
consultation, includingaccess to the RAP       WAPCo concluded that the mechanismfor expressing
and without an effectivedisclosure             grievances needed to be more accessibleto PAPs, and has
procedure,displaced persons could not          thus developed a strengthenedcomplaintsresolution
have understoodgrievance avenues               processwith the following objectives:to provideeasily
availableto them. The Panelfinds that          accessible meansof making complaintsas well as fair and
Management failed to ensurethat the            speedy meansof resolvingdisputesand complaints
Sponsor had in placean effective               amongst key players in the constructionsetting, such that
grievance processto identifyand redress        there is minimum delay in constructionactivities; to ensure
resettlementissues, as required by OP          that appropriate and mutually acceptablecorrective
4.12.                                    -     measuresare identified,agreed and implementedto
                                               address comdaints: and to minimize the needto resort to


                                                                                                 42

                                        -                     Management Report and Recommendation



IssuelFinding                            Para. Comment/Action
                                         nos.
                                               complicated,time-consumingand costly litigationor judicial
                                               proceedingsas a means of resolvingcomplaints.This
                                               process includesprovisionfor third partysettlement of
                                               disputesarisingfrom resettlement,judicial recourse, and
                                               mediation by communityor localgovernment leadership.
                                               WAPCo also proposesto use a participatoryapproach to
                                               resolvinggrievances;they will also establishan effective
                                               databasefor grievances (filingrecords,communications log,
                                               etc).

                                               Action: WAPCo has agreed to ensure that the grievance
                                               mechanism includes informationon accessible procedures
                                               for third party settlement of disputes arisingfrom
                                               compensationand other aspects of the RAP and to improve
                                               documentationof dispute resolution(nature of disputes,
                                               parties involved, and duratiotdtirning).WAPCo has also
                                               agreed to engage in participatoryconsultationswith affected
                                               communitieson the grievance mechanismand to revisethe
                                               proceduresas appropriate.Ongoingfield-based Bank
                                               supervisionto the Projectsites will follow up on these
                                               actions as partof the yearly independentevaluation of RAP
                                               implementation.
                                               MlGA has offered use of Japan trust fund resourcesfor
                                               developmentof a training program to strengthenthe
                                               complianceand grievance mechanismprior to distributionof
                                               the additional compensation.MIGA's technical coordinator
                                               for the trust fund will finalize the componentsof the training
                                               program by September2008with WAPCo staff.
InstitutionalCapacity                    299-  Comment:Managementacknowledgesthe Panel'sfinding
Panelfinds that Managementdid not              and notes that an assessmentof WAPCo's organizational,
complywith the requirementsof BP 4.12,         management, staffing, qualificationsand experience in
includingthose to assess the Borrower's        implementingsafeguardswas carriedout during the Project
commitmentto and capacityfor                   appraisal and, at that time, was found to be satisfactory.
implementingthe resettlement                   Subsequently,duringthe implementationphase,
instrument,and mitigatingsignificant           Managementbecame aware that WAPCo had a high
risks, includingrisk of impoverishment,        turnover of staff concernedwith resettlementand
from inadequateimplementationof the            compensationissues,with a concomitant loss of continuity
resettlement instrument.Panelfurther           and institutional memory.
finds Managementdid not adequately
reviewand inform the Boardof the
Sponsor's past experienceand limited           Action:WAPCo has put in place an implementation

capacitywith implementingoperations            committee headed by the General Manager,Corporate

involvingsimilar involuntaryresettlement       Affairs to superviseon a daily basis the implementationof

activities.This is inconsistentwith the        compensationand livelihood restorationactivities throughout

provisionsof OP/BP 4.12 and OMS 2.20.          the duration of the Project.
                                               WAPCo is ensuring that its social safeguards personnel are
                                               being adequatelytrained in RAP monitoring, as well as in
                                               the monitoringand evaluationof safeguardscompliance
                                               and of the CDP. At the same time, WAPCo is increasing its
                                               social safeguards staff through the recruitment of 2 staff in
                                               Nigeria and one staff member in Ghana by June 2008. One
                                        -      staff each in Benin and Togo are being trained to handle
                                               social safeguards issues.


                                             43

      Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline



No. IssuelFinding                               Para. CommentlAction
                                                nos.
                                                      WAPCo has also developed a capacity building programfor
                                                      its staff, includingtrainingorganizedby IFC in May2008;
                                                      and a capacity buildingtrainingto be organized by MlGA in
                                                      September/October2008. WAPCowill update,expand and
                                                      improve data collectionon PAPS,including moredetailed
                                                      socio-economic information.
                                                      WAPCo has also agreed to a yearly external audit of its
                                                      database and monitoringand evaluationprograms,as well
                                                      as preparingmonthlysafeguards implementationmonitoring
                                                      reports.
   ENVIRONMENTALISSUES
   Documentation& Categorization                325-  Comment:Managementacknowledgesthe Panel'sfinding.
   The EIA documents meet the                   328
   requirementsof Annex B of OP 4.01
   Content of EnvironmentalAssessment                 Action: None required.

   Reportfor a CategoryA Project.
   The Projectwas correctlyassigned
   "CategoryA , and as the Projectinvolves
   four countries a consolidated"Regional
   Assessment" was appropriate.
   IndependentAdvisory Panel                    329-  Comment:Appointment of the independentESAPthat was
   Panelfinds that failure to establishthe      330;  requiredunder the Projectwas unreasonablydelayed
   independentadvisory panelduring the          459-  becauseof issuesrelatedto approvalsfor contracting
   planningand designstages of the              460   consultants.These proceduralproblemshave been
   Project,and delay in its establishment             resolved, althoughdoing so took longerthan forecast in the
   during Projectimplementation,did not
                                                      knowledgeof Bank policiesand a pipelinesafety expert-
                                                      ESAP members-an anthropologistwith extensive
                                                      Management Responseto the Request.Two of the three
   complywith OP 4.01.
   [Hlad the ESAP been hired in a more
   timely fashion, it is likelythat many of the       receivedtheir contracts in late 2006/early 2007, but the third
   concerns raised by the Requestersand               panelist, an oceanographer, abruptlywithdrew in April 2007.
   the shortcomingsidentifiedbythe Panel              The ESAPconvened with two members on May 14,2007 in
   would have been moresatisfactorilydealt            Accra, in conjunctionwith a Bank supervision mission, and
   with. Delayingthe hiringof the expertsfor          usedthe occasionto meetthe Bank Projectteam and
   the ESAP has had an unfortunate                    WAPCo's ManagingDirectorand senior staff, to receivea
   adverse impact on project                          detailed briefingon constructionprogressand the main
   implementation.                                    environmentaland social issues, to collect relevant

   The Panelfinds that the significantdelay           documents in additionthose already provided by the Project

   in establishingthe ESAP constitutesnon-            team, to elect its chairperson, and to initiate mission
                                                      planning.A marine engineer expert in coastal processes
   compliancewith Bank Policies (OP 13.05
   and OP 4.01) and led to manyof the                 and experiencedin pipelinedesignand installationreplaced

   problems highlightedinthis Report.                 the oceanographer (his contractwas issued in July 2007).
                                                      Managementconsiders the delay in fielding the ESAPto
                                                      have been a significantmissedopportunityto avoid or more
                                                      quickly identifyand address some of the problemsthat led
                                                      to the Request.Evenwhen fielded late, however, the ESAP
                                                      has proved highlyvaluable. It conducted its first field mission
                                                      between6 and 17August 2007, with visits to all onshore
                                                      pipelinelocations,communitiesaffected by the pipeline,and
                                                      government institutionswith direct responsibilityfor safety
                                                      and the environment.Itsfirst report,dated November2007,
                                                      containsfindings and recommendationsto WAPCo on:
                                                          Databaseand informationmanagement systemfor

                                                                                                          44

                                                                   Management Report and Recommendation



No. Issue/Finding                              Para. CommentlAction
                                               nos.
                                                         resettlementand social issues;
                                                         Compensationand livelihood restorationfor landowners,
                                                         tenants, businessesand farm workers;
                                                         Communityconsultationandformal grievance
                                                         procedures;
                                                         Sustainabilityin communitydevelopment projects;
                                                         Ensuringthat issuesparticularto women and vulnerable
                                                         peoplesare addressed;
                                                         Monitoringresettlement;
                                                         Protectingthe pipelinefrom fisherfolk, and vice-versa;
                                                        Avoidingcoastalerosion;
                                                         Emergencyplanningand pipelinesecurity;
                                                         ROW management;
                                                         Site security; and
                                                         Informationflow to environmentalagencies.
                                                     The action plantable (see Annex 4) includes 12
                                                     recommendedactionsto be taken byWAPCo that are
                                                     based in whole or in part on the ESAP report, of which six
                                                     havealready beencompleted: Items l(a), 4(a), 5, 6(a), 9(a),
                                                     and 1O(a). Inaddition, ESAP experts providedspecialized
                                                     advice when requestedby WAPCo or the Bank, on critical
                                                     issuesthat emerged during implementation;the safety
                                                     expert recommendedmethodologyfor analyzingthe risk of
                                                     anchor damage to the offshore pipelineand the marine
                                                     expert identifieddata needsfor evaluatingthe coastal
                                                     erosion potentialof various beachcrossingconfigurationsat
                                                     Tema and Takoradiand techniquesfor monitoringerosion
                                                     outcomes.
                                                     The ESAP is planningits next missionfor July-August 2008.

                                                     Action: (1) Managementwill ensurethat the ESAP remains
                                                     in placethroughthe supervision phase until physical
                                                     completion, expected in July 2009. The ESAP will serve as
                                                     an independentoversight body with regardto monitoringthe
                                                     adherenceto Bank safeguard policiesand the integrityof
                                                     the physicalstructures and their operations.
                                                     (2) Managementwill recommendcontractingprocedures
                                                     that are appropriatefor the specialcase of independent
                                                     advisory panels requiredunder OP 4.01.
15. Analysis of Alternatives                  331-   Comment: Managementacknowledgesthe Panel'sfinding
    The OP 4.01 requirementthat               339    that the OP 4.01 requirementhas been met.
    alternativesbe evaluated has been met.           With regard to the full economic evaluationof the offshore
    However,the lack of a full economic              pipelinealternative, Managementnotesthat Section3.5 of
    evaluation of the alternativeoffshore            the Regional EIA includesa table in which three routing
    pipelineroute is a significant shortcoming       alternatives are compared in terms of onshoreand offshore
   and is not consistent with OP 4.01.               environmental impact, socio-economicimpactand
                                                     resettlement, sabotage risk, and economiccost (Regional
                                                     EIA, PP. 3-22 and 23). The offshore routina is shown as
                                                     intermediate in cost betweena fully onshore pipeline, which

                                                   45

   Ghana- WestAfFican GasPipeline        -
IssuelFinding                            Para. CommentlAction
                                         nos.
                                               was the most expensive, and the hybridonshoreloffshore
                                               option that was finally selectedas having"the lowest level of
                                               environmentaland socio-economic impactsand least cost"
                                               (RegionalEIA, p. 3-24).The comparisons in the table are
                                               qualitative, but the text includes the following statement:
                                               "The additionalcost of the Offshore RoutingOptionvs. the
                                               Onshore/OffshoreRoutingOption ranges betweentwo and
                                               eight cents/Million Britishthermal unit (MMBtu)for three
                                               differentdemand scenarios and the additional unit cost of
                                               the Onshore RoutingOptionvs. the Onshore/Offshore
                                               RoutingOption is on average20 cents/MMBtuconsidering
                                               A referenceis givenfor the cost estimates-- "WestAfrican
                                               the same three demand scenarios"(Regional EIA, p. 3-22).

                                               Gas Pipeline FeasibilityStudy" (Pipeline EngineeringGmbH,
                                               1999)-which is also listed in PADAnnex 15: Documentsin
                                               the Project File.

                                               Action: None required.
Disclosureof EA Documentsand             340-  Comment:Managementacknowledgesthe Panel'sfinding
Consultations                            347   regardingthe good quality of EA documentationand its
EA documentation is of good quality and        technicalcomplexity. Managementexplains the
written in soundtechnical English, but         circumstancesthat precludeits disclosingthe reports of the
requires a high degree of educationto be       ELPS IntegrityStudy in its commentson Item No. 17, below
fully comprehended.For existing                as well as in paragraphs63 and 64 of this report.The
upstream Escravos-Lagospipeline                reasonthat the IntegrityStudyfindings and
(ELPS), an EnvironmentalAudit (or risk         recommendationsare not taken up in the Nigeria EIA is
assessment) inform of an IntegrityStudy        consistentwith Management'sdecisionthat ELPS is not an
was undertaken.This document,                  associated projectof WAGP (see Item 17 below).
however,apparentlywas not placed in            The EIA and RAPfor Nigeriawere disclosed in July 2004 in
publicdomain. Panelfinds that apparent         11 public locations in Nigeria, includingin local government
non-disclosureof this assessment of the        offices at Badagry, Ado-Odo/Ota, and Ifo. For persons
ELPS, and fact that its findings and           accustomedto readingtechnicaldocuments in English
recommendationsare not taken up in             (which is a common languagefor literate Nigerians)and with
EnvironmentalAssessment Reports, is            access to those locations,this disclosurewould have been
not in accordwith paragraphs15and 16           sufficient. In October 2004, in responseto complaintsfrom
of OP 4.01.                                    communities, the Bank advisedWAPCo to make and
Panel also observedthat affected               distribute local languagetranslationsof the RAP and EMP
communitiesappear not to have been             summaries.WAPCo prepareda Yoruba translation of the
providedwith understandablerelevant            RAP summary and distributed it in Nigeriain June 2007.
materialson overall environmental              Action: WAPCo has agreed to improveand expand
documentationpriorto consultation              distributionof non-technicalpresentationsof key Project
meetings.The requirementof OP 4.01             informationin local languages.WAPCo is translatingthe
that disclosure be in a form and language      ExecutiveSummaryof the EMPfor operations into Yoruba
that is understandableto the groups            and will discuss and disseminate it amongthe communities
beingconsultedhas not been met.                by August 2008. Duringthe sensitizationand consultations
                                               conductedin May/June2008 at 15 locations in Nigeria,
                                               PAPSwere given detailsof the livelihoodrestoration
                                               program includingthe methodologyfor additional
                                               compensation, as well as on the scope and content of third
                                               phase of the CDP which will focus on livelihood restoration,
                                               skills developmentand activitiestargetedtowards
                                               vulnerablegroups. A brochurefor citizenson how to
                                               recognizeand respondto gas leaks has already been

                                                                                                    46

                                                                  Management Report and Recommendation



IssuelFinding                                Para. Comment/Action
                                             nos.
                                                   translated and distributed-- 1000copies in Yoruba have
                                                   beendistributed in the communitiesalong the pipeline in
                                                   Nigeria. Managementwill monitorthe outreach through
                                                   regularfield visits.
Upstream Impactsand the ELPS                 348-  Comment:
(a) The Panel notesthe importance,           375   (a) The WAGP Authority (WAGPA) is responsiblefor
under Bank Policy, of examining impacts            monitoringN-Gas' annual reportsand for monitoring
linkedto the WAGP that may occur both              compliancewith the Access Code. The Access Code sets
upstreamand downstreamof the new                   out the terms underwhich new shippers may use the
pipeline, includingthose that relateto the         WAGP, and requirescertificationthat their oil and gas fields
developmentof newareas of production               and deliverysystems have been developed in compliance
and transport. Panelfinds that the gas             with Nigerianlaw and EA regulations.While WAGPA
supply system upstream of WAGP is                  remainsresponsiblefor compliancewith the Access Code
within the Project'sarea of influence              under the treaty which establishedit, the Bank is exploring
under OP 4.01. Regional EIA properly               the possibilityof obtaininginformationon the upstreamoil
flags that Project might have potential            and gas sector (in particular,throughput data on associated
impacts in these upstreamareas, but an             and non-associatedgas) from the relevantagenciesof the
analysis of their natureand scope has              Governmentof Nigeria, e.g., Federal Ministryof Energy
not yet beencarriedout.                            (Gas), Federal Ministryof Environment,and DPR.

(b) Panel also observesthat in various             (a) and (b) The Regional EIA liststhe kinds of activities that
Projectdocuments, Bank itself makes                could occur in the gas-producingareasto meet increasesin
linkage betweenWAGP and upstream                   demandfor gas to which WAGP would contribute if and
reductionof gas flaring, in this case to           when its throughput exceededthe initial200 MMCF/d, a
highlighta projectedbenefitof the                  development not expected to occur within the first five years
Project.This reinforcesview that Project           of operation, possiblywithin the first ten years, and possibly
and associatedfacilities and supply                not at all. The specific natureof the activities(including
areas should be viewed as an inter-                possible investments),their locationsand timing could not
connectedsystem for purposesof                     be determinedwhen the WAGP environmental analysiswas
environmentalassessment, considering               beingcarried out. Intaking the decisionto rely on Nigerian
both potentialbenefitsand adverse                  environmentalimpact proceduresand to use the WAGP
impacts. Panel is concernedthat Project            Access Code as a mechanismto ensurethat Nigerian law
documentationwas not consistentin                  and EA requirementswould be adheredto in any upstream
definingthe Project`s area of influence.           developmentsrelatedto WAGP, Management relied on the
                                                   collectivejudgment of safeguards staff in the region

(c) Net effect of the newWAGP being                (ASPEN)and the anchor (OPCQC)as well as legal and
                                                   policyadvicefrom LEGEN. That approachto upstream
connectedto the old ELPS system is that
latter has been subject to thorough                issueswas communicatedto the Board in the PAD (p. 36).

reviewand inspection, defects have been            (c) Managementacknowledgesthe Panel'sfinding that
detectedand corrected,and safety and               interconnectionwith WAGP has caused NNPC to improve
operationalsystems modernized. Panel's             the safety of ELPS.
expert concludedthat linkageof the                 (d) Managementacknowledgesthe Panel'sfinding that an
WAGP and ELPS has had overall effect               environmentalaudit rather than an environmental
of improvingthe safety of the Escravos-            assessmentis the appropriate instrumentfor an existing
Lagos pipeline.                                    facility such as ELPS, and that the ELPS IntegrityStudy
                                                   constitutessuch an audit.

(d) ManagementResponse states that                 Managementwishes to clarifythat the integrity of the (old)
ELPS IntegrityStudy constitutesan                  ELPS portion linkedto the (new)West African Gas Pipeline
environmentalaudit, which is an                    was addressedbythe team during Project preparation.The
appropriate instrumentfor ELPS given               issuesof the ELPS possiblenegativeimpact on WAGP's
that it is an "existingfacility." Panelfinds       capacitywas raisedand it was agreed by all partiesthat an
s u ~ ~ ofortview that this is an
           r                                       "intelligent pigging"- or internalcheck of the pipeline using


                                                 47

   Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline



IssuelFinding                           Para. Comment/Action
                                        nos.
appropriateEA instrumentfor the ELPS.         a monitoringdevice ("pig")-of the entire pipelineintegrity
                                              be undertaken, using internal scanningwith state-of-the-art
As noted above, however, IntegrityStudy       equipment.This was carried out by NNPC/NGC,the pipeline
of the ELPS was not made partof EA            ownersand operators, who subsequently sharedthe
documentationand apparently has not           findings with the WAGP team members.The WAGP team
been publicly disclosed.This has              was satisfiedwith the findings and with the necessityof
impededability of Requestersand               keepingcritical, technical, and logisticalinformation
membersof publicfrom being informed           proprietaryand confidential,especially in light of the
of, and providingcommentson, this             potential risks of drawing undue attentionto its vulnerability
importantand controversialsubject.            and thus leadingto possibleacts of sabotage.The
                                              "intelligentpigging"will be carried out at regular intervalsto
                                              continue providingassurancewith regardsto operational
                                              safety.
                                              Thus, the reasonsfor the study report`snot being includedin
                                              the WAGP safeguardsdocumentsor publiclydisclosedare:
                                                 The IntegrityStudy was not requiredby the Bank as part
                                                  of the WAGP safeguards;
                                                 While ELPS reliabilityand safety were necessary
                                                  elements of WAPCo's due diligence, the IntegrityStudy
                                                 was conductedfor NNPC and is NNPC's property, not
                                                 the Bank`s norWAPCo's;
                                                  NNPC considersthe informationin the report highly
                                                  sensitiveand required bothWAPCo and the Bank to sign
                                                  confidentialityagreements beforereleasingit to them;
                                                  and;
                                                  Managementconcurs with NNPC'sjudgment in this
                                                  case, notingthat the security situation in the Niger Delta,
                                                 with its historyof pipelinesabotage, precludespublic
                                                  disclosureof a reportthat includesdetailed information
                                                  on ELPS design, operation, and vulnerability not only to
                                                 accidents but also to deliberate actions by third parties.

                                              Action:
                                              (a)The Access Codespecifies that WAGPA will monitor
                                              annual reportsfrom N-Gas, overseethe gas supply from the
                                              producers,and monitor compliancewith Nigerianlaws and
                                              environmental regulations.While WAGPA remains
                                              responsiblefor the compliancewith the Access Code under
                                              the treaty which established it, the Bank will also explore the
                                              possibilityof obtaininginformationon upstreamoil and gas
                                              sector from the relevant agencies of the Government of
                                              Nigeria, e.g., Federal Ministryof Energy(Gas), Federal
                                              Ministryof Environment,and DPR.
                                              (b) Managementhaswritten to the Federal Ministryof
                                              Energy(Gas), Federal Ministryof Environment,and DPRto
                                              request informationon associated and non-associatedgas
                                              volumes transported through ELPS in the past, and the
                                              likely export volumesfor WAGP in the future.
                                              (c) Nonerequired.
                                              (d) None required.



                                                                                                  48

                                          -                    Management Report andRecommendation



IssuelFinding                             Para. Comment/Action
                                          nos.
EmergencyResponseand                      376-  Comment: Managementagrees with the Panel that ERPs
ContingencyPlans                          382   will not be effective unless the communitiesconcernedare
Panelfound that sound and wide ranging          fully informedabout them. The Projectteam has consistently
emergency responseplans have been               informedWAPCo that beforegas flows throughWAGP, site
compiledbut had not, as of July 2007,           specific plans must be in placeand potentiallyaffected
beencommunicatedto communities                  communities must have been madeaware of their content
along the Nigerianportionof WAGP's              and have had opportunitiesto ask questions, seek
ROW. Such emergency response plans              clarifications, and clearly understandthe respectiveroles of
will not be effective unlesscommunities         WAPCo personnel,emergencyresponseservices, local
are properlyinformed, both orally and via       government, communityleaders, and citizens in the event of
clear, understandablewrittentext in a           any emergency along the ROW or at one of the facilities.
form that can be retainedand readily            WAPCo's initialfocus has been on the facilities that will be
accessed, beforethe pipelinebecomes             operatingto deliver "free flow gas" to Takoradi -the Station
operational.                                    at ltoki(the AlagbadoTee), the pipelinefrom that station to
                                                Badagry,the BadagryBeachCompressor Station, the
                                                offshoreline, and the Takoradi Station.
                                                WAPCo heldtwo stakeholders'fora in Nigeria on pipeline
                                                safety, one in Lagos on December 17,2007, and one in
                                                Abeokuta on December 18.At that time, only the system-
                                                wide ERPwas available in final form -a document that had
                                                been issued in May2006. The first drafts of the site-specific
                                                ERPs were madeavailableto the Bank in December2007,
                                                and WAPCo conducted"desk-topdrills" in Nigeriaand
                                                Ghana to identify needed improvements.The Bank provided
                                                extensivecommentson the drafts. The ERPswere revised
                                                in earlyApril 2008, and were reviewedand found acceptable
                                                by the Bank. Furtherstrengtheningof the ERPs is
                                                envisaged as a result of the next ESAP mission, scheduled
                                                for July 2008, in which ERPs and safetywill be priorities.
                                                Additional improvementsto the plansare anticipated based
                                                on inputsfrom the communities during the consultations to
                                                be held beforegas flows throughthe pipeline.WAPCo has
                                                prepareda brochurefor the publicon pipelinesafety,
                                                focusing on howto recognizea gas leak and what to do
                                                (and not do) it one thinks a leak is occurring. The brochure
                                                has beentranslated intoYoruba, and 1000copies have
                                                been distributed in Nigeria.

                                                Action: WAPCo is conducting ERP awareness meetings
                                                with stakeholders and communities nearWAGP facilities,
                                                which will be completed in June 2008, prior to first gas.
                                                WAPCo is also producinga safety brochure, translating it
                                                into local languages, and widely disseminatingit in July
                                                2008. Additional public awareness meetingswill be held in
                                                the future, and printed informationon relevantaspects of
                                                the ERPswill be distributed. Managementwill monitorthe
                                                ERP awareness activities through regularfield visits.
Fisheriesand Livelihoodsin Nigeria        388-  Comment: Managementnotes that the Panel'sfinding is in
Numerousfishermenfrom the Ajido           397   linewith the positionexpressedin the supplemental
community believedthat their nets were          Management Responseto the Requestthat it was unlikely
fouled by a substance during the 2006           that the bentonite used in the HDD beneathBadagry
Fishingseasonand that this occurredat           Lagooncould have causedfouling of fishing nets.
about time pipelinewas beingdrilled.            With regardto the identityof the substance,WAPCo had

                                              49

      Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline
-
No. IssuelFinding                             Para. CommentlAction
                                              nos.
    Unfortunatelyno sample of substance             retaineda sample of a fouled net. Although the net was not
   was subject to microscopicor                     preservedaccordingto standard methods, it turned out to be
    microbiologicalexamination or to                usablefor forensic analysis. By meansof placing cuttings
   chemicalanalysisto determineits identity         from the net in algal culture medium,Jawura Environmental
   and nonewas preservedto allowfor later           ServicesLtd., a Nigerianlaboratorycontracted by WAPCo,
   testing. Preciselywhat offending                 confirmedthat the fouling material consistedof algae. Many
   substance was remains unknown.                   speciesof aquatic algaeform restingcells or cysts as a
   Accordingto Panel's expert, speculation          survival mechanismwhen under extreme stress, most
   that Bentoniteused as drilling mud               notablydesiccation.Normalcells regeneratefrom the
   caused the netfouling is without scientific      resting cells when conditionsbecomeagainfavorable. The
   foundation.                                      net cuttings proved to containviable restingcells.
   Recordis silent as to whether                    Microscopicexaminationof the regeneratedplant material
   Management briefedWAPCo as to how                identified 12genera of green algae, of which the dominant
   the incidentwas to be investigatedand            genus was Chlorococcum,a unicellulargreen alga that
   whether or not samples of the offending          tends to form clumps and is frequentlyfound in nutrient-
   substancewere to be analysed. A lesson           enrichedwaters. This confirmedin general the explanation
   is that incidentsthat may be project             WAPCo hadgiven to the Ajido fishing community during its
   related needto be comprehensivelyand             initial investigationof the net problem in 2006, althoughthe
   rigorouslyinvestigatedand documented.            particulargenusWAPCo named at the time, Spirogyra, was
                                                    not found in the forensic analysis.
                                                    Managementagrees that the incidentcould have been
                                                    handledmoreeffectivelyin one respect; the microscopic
                                                    analysis should have been conducted immediately after the
                                                    problem became knownto WAPCo, which was by a
                                                    circuitous routefrom the fishermento the Panel to Bank
                                                    staff to WAPCo's Health, Environmentand Safety Officer. It
                                                    was not until mid-2007that the Bank discovered that the
                                                    identificationof the algae as Spirogyrawas based on
                                                    appearancerather than microscopicexamination,and the
                                                    Bank's reactionpromptedWAPCo to contractfor the
                                                    analysis describedabove.
                                                    Fromthe community's point of view, the interactionwith
                                                    WAPCo over this incidenthas been beneficial.WAPCo
                                                    continuedthe program of assistanceto Ajido that it agreed
                                                    with the fishing community in 2006 to helpoffset the poor
                                                    fishing season initially blamed on the pipeline installation.By
                                                    mid-2007,WAPCo had assisted the communityto formally
                                                    establishthe Ajido FishingAssociation, had purchased and
                                                    deliveredfishing equipment accordingto priorities agreed
                                                    with the Association,and had initiateda program of
                                                    capacity-buildingcoveringtopics such as fishing enterprise
                                                    management, savings and thrift, and conflict resolution.

                                                    Action: None required.
   Fisheriesand Livelihoodsin Ghana           3998- Comment:Managementacknowledgesthe Panel'sfinding
   Panelobservedthat Environmental            400   regardingthe absence of complaintsfrom the fishing
   BaselineSurveyscontain considerable              community in Ghana. This is consistentwith the Project
   detail on fish and fisheries along the           team's experienceduringsupervisionmissionvisits to Tema
   routeof pipeline. Panel notes that during        and Takoradi.
   July 2007 visit to Ghana neither artisanal
   fishermen nor fisheries regulators
   expressedconcernabout potential            -     Action: None required.



                                                                                                        50

                                                              Management Report and Recommendation



IssuelFinding                            Para. CommentlAction
                                         nos.
negative effects of WAGP on their future
livelihoods.
PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION,
SUPERVISIONAND SYSTEMIC
ISSUES
MissionDuration,Frequencyand             435-  Comment:Managementacknowledgesthat there were
Expertise                                468   supervisiongaps in the first year of Project implementation.
Panel notes there were long gaps               Managementalso concurs that the implementationof the
betweensupervisionmissions prior to            RAP was inadequateand that it should have been
Request. Furthermore,safeguards staff          supervised in the field at a more detailed level.When
mainly concernedthemselveswith                 engagement of the ESAP becamedelayed, alternative
Projectpreparationand were far less            arrangements to follow up on questionsabout compensation
involvedin the constructionphaseof the         should have been put in place more promptlythan was
Project. Panelfinds that Managementdid         actually accomplished.
not ensureadequate supervision during          The first supervision missionfocusing on safeguards
the constructionphase.This did not             aspectstook place in June 2005 and consisted of three
comply with Bank Policyon Supervision.         WBG senior safeguards specialists.The timing was deemed
Issuesof involuntaryresettlement               appropriatesince thefinal investmentdecision took place in
required particularattentionin                 December2005, the IDA PRG became effective in May
supervision.Though Management                  2005, and implementationwas in the early stages. WAPCo's
identifiedseveral problemsregarding            monthly progress reports were systematically reviewedby
compensationprocess, it was slow to            Bank staff, includingfollow up with WAPCo. By and large,
address them. Panelfinds that                  subsequentsupervisionmissions (April 2006, October 2006,
Management`s lack of diligent                  March2007, May2007, November2007 and May2008)
supervisioncreated a responsibility            includedsafeguards specialists,and the Aide Memoires
vacuum duringthe RAP implementation.           highlightedthe outstandingissues.
This did not complywith Bank Policy on         There was significantturnover of WAPCo's environmental/
Supervision,and led to problems in the         socialteam, however; lead environmental/healthand safety
resettlementprocess.                           personnelat WAPCo were replaced several times, and the
                                               team overseeingthe compensationprocesswas disbanded
                                               following Boardpresentationwhich subsequently led to a
                                               lack of continuityand follow up at the field level by WAPCo.
                                               The effects of these personnelchangeswere not
                                               immediatelyevident. In hindsight,the ultimate
                                               consequencesof disruption in continuityat WAPCo were not
                                               fully grasped.While independentoversight was plannedvia
                                               a three-personESAP, this panelwas established in August
                                               2007 after initialdelays.When the involuntary resettlement
                                               problemspersisted, specializedstaff and consultants
                                               contributedto the supervisioneffort. Similarly, social
                                               developmentand energy specialist experts were recruited
                                               For field positions, althoughthis took time to achieve.
                                               Managementhas bolsteredits field personnel through
                                               recruitmentof an experiencedTask Manager(energy
                                               specialist)and a social/safeguardsspecialist located in
                                               Nigeria, and an economistlocated in Ghana. Thesefield
                                               staff are also supported by a complement of headquarter
                                               social developmentand other staff specialists and
                                               consultants.This arrangementfacilitates morefrequent and
                                               regularcontact with WAPCo on key safeguards issues.
                                               Managementinput and coordinationwith the Country Office
                                               and in monitoringthe Project has been strengthened with


                                             51

       Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline
                                              -
No. Issue/Finding                             Para. CommentlAction
                                               nos.
                                                    more periodic reviews of Project implementationprogress.

                                                    Action: Closer Country Office oversight of Project
                                                    supervisionis being pursued.A minimum of two
                                                    comprehensivesupervision missionswill be carriedout
                                                    every year through the constructionphase,with more
                                                    frequenffcontinuousformal and informalsupervision of the
                                                    social aspectsof the Projectplannedwith the involvementof
                                                    the Country Offices to permit more timely and targeted
                                                    supervision intervention.Appropriate budgetary resources
                                                    are beingallocatedfor the supervisioneffort (about 3 times
                                                    the normal supervisionbudget), with an expenditureof
                                                    about USD350,OOO plannedfor FYO9.
-   Systemic Issues
22. Supervision of public-private             486   Comment: In 2004, the Bank reviewedand found
    partnerships                                    acceptableWAPCo's technicaland commercialcapabilities
    Panel is concernedthat Management put           as well as its corporate policieson governanceand social
    too muchfaith in Project Sponsor's ability      and environmentalresponsibility.This includedWAPCo's
    to handle complexsocial issues in spite         abilityto undertakethe environmentaland social aspects of
    of troubled history of some of the              the Projectin linewith Bank guidelines, as evidenced
    participatingcompanies' involvementin           throughthe close collaborationthat took place betweenthe
    the Nigerianoil and gas sector.                 WBG and WAPCo environmental/socialstaff on the
                                                    preparationof the EA and RAP.
                                                    Bank staff were cognizantof the potentialfor negative
                                                    perceptionsto be drawnfrom environmentaland social
                                                    issuesfaced in the Delta by two of WAPCo's partners,while
                                                    recognizingthat the proposedProjectwas a distinct and
                                                    discrete operation beingmanagedindependently,and that it
                                                    had to stand on its own merit.With regardto WAPCo's
                                                    safeguardscapabilities,WAPCo had a dedicated social and
                                                    environmental team in place prior to Board presentationwith
                                                    staffingand experience satisfactoryto the Bank, and a
                                                    monitoringsystem was established in which monthly reports
                                                    would be submittedto the Bank. It did not become apparent
                                                    untilthe first supervision missionthat there had been
                                                    significantchanges in staff which affectedWAPCo's
                                                    capacityto implementthe RAP accordingto Bank
                                                    procedures,as noted above in Item 12. This was
                                                    exacerbated by inadequatesupervisionby the Bank during
                                                    the first year, although this situation has now been rectified.
                                                    Action: See Item 12.
                                                    Basedon WAGP experience,the lessons learnedon
                                                    supervisionof public-private partnershipwill be documented
                                                    and broughtto the attention of projectteams handling
                                                    similar complex projects. In the future, for projectsinvolving
                                                    new borrowers/sponsorsin a complex sectorwith many
                                                    actorslparticipants,a morecomprehensiveevaluation of the
                                                    sector environmentand issueswould be warranted to better
                                                    assess the risks and help develop strategiesfor their
                                                    mitigation.




                                                                                                        52

                                                                   Management Report and Recommendation



No. IssuelFinding                             Para. CommentlAction
                                              nos.
23. Action on early warningsigns    -         487   Comment:Managementbelievesthat adequate resources
    resourcesfor supervision                        and attentionwere allocatedto the preparationand design
    A numberof warning signs that appeared          phases of the Project. There was a 10 month gap, however,
    inthe design phases of Projectwere not          infield supervisionduringthe early implementationstage.
    properly interpretedand dealt with. For         Duringthe launchingof Projectexecution, when
    instance, Managementdid not                     resettlementissuessurfaced, they were flagged by the
    adequatelyfollow up on the warnings             Projectteam, although it is recognizedthat field supervision
    relatingto the RAP processthat were             would have provided greater attentionand follow-up on the
    raisedand discussed in the monitoring           social aspectsof the Project.
    reports. One importantreason is an              Starting in 2006, the Bank significantlyincreasedstaffing
    apparent lack of availablesupervision           and budgetaryresources, which has continuedto date.
    resources in terms of funds and                 Monthlymonitoringreportswere consistentlyreviewed by
    safeguards expertise. Providingsufficient       staff, and followed up byfield visits. Duringthe supervision
    resources and usingthem for mitigating          phase, issuesrelatedto the RAP processwere raisedwith
    emerging problemswould have been                WAPCo, and followed up at appropriateintervals despite
    particularlyimportantin a complex               slow progress by WAPCo. See also Item22 and Annex 2.
    Projectsuch as WAGP.                            The Bank has also increasedits staffingand supervision
                                                    effort in the Nigeriaand Ghanafield officesfor this Project
                                                    as noted above in Item22. About USD317,600 was spent
                                                    on Project supervisionefforts in FY07, and over
                                                    USD300,OOO to date in FY08. Managementsupervisionand
                                                    coordination betweenheadquarters(see paragraph 20
                                                    above) and staffing in the Country Offices of Nigeria and
                                                    Ghana have been augmented.A managerialoversight team
                                                    has beenestablishedat headquarters includingthe Sector
                                                    Manager, LeadSpecialist,the Task Manager and senior
                                                    level safeguardsspecialists.Corporate units have also been
                                                    involved in supervisionmissions(from SDV and OPCQC),
                                                    given the risk profile of the Project.

                                                    Action: Adequate managerialsupport as well as
                                                    headquarterand Country Office and specializedstaff
                                                    support, alongwith requisiteannual budgetaryallocations
                                                    are envisagedthroughoutthe supervisionphase. In addition,
                                                    the ESAP is expectedto provide continualadvice and
                                                    oversightconcerningverificationof WAPCo's compliance
                                                    with World Bank safeguard policies.The ESAP undertook
                                                    onefield trip in July 2007; another field mission is planned in
                                                    JuIy/August 2008.




                                                  53

   Ghana- WestAfiican GasPipeline



IssuelFinding                             Para. CommentlAction
                                          nos.
Complexregionalprojects                   489-  Comment:Africa Regionalmanagement recognizesthat
Panel notes that an on-goingregional or   494   there is considerablescope to strengthenenvironmental and
in-countrypresenceof Bank                       social safeguardswork in the preparationand
Managementwas initially not considered          implementationof complexand high risk projects. It shares
necessary. However, Panelobserved               the Panel'sviews about the importanceof having a stronger
serious difficulties in policyoversight         field presenceof staff with the right skills to support
"from a distance." Fieldpresence                implementation. Inthe area of safeguards,the Region has
becomeseven more importantin large              taken action to recruitthe righttechnical staff and the
regional projects such as the WAGP.             appropriatelevel of experienceto ensurefull compliance
Regionalcharacterof Project may have            with Bank policiesand to exercise adequatejudgment and
contributedto a lack of clarity regarding       to take correctiveactions when needed. This hiring effort is
lines of communicationand authority.            beingsupported by an extensivetraining program for staff
Panel observes that Managementhas               and managerson safeguards, heldat headquartersand in
recentlyaugmented itsfield presence in          the field. This will be a continuous effort. The Region has
Abuja and Accra and a new approachto            also instituteda semi-annual risk reviewof its projects to
regionalprojectshas been developedfor           ensure adequate managerial attention and to support teams
the Africa region                               to addressthe risks that this Projectand others like it face
                                                even when sponsors are expected to playa greater role in
                                                supervisingagreements and execution of critical plansfor
                                                fulfilling policycompliance.This is complemented by
                                                oversight of these types of projects not only from the
                                                Directorfor regionalprojectsinAfrica, who will retainfinal
                                                accountability,butfrom the Country Directorsfor countries
                                                which are participatingin these regionalactivities.
                                                The Regionalso has embarked on a significant
                                                decentralizationeffort of staff to placea variety of expertise
                                                and specialistknowledge in Africa's CountryOffices,
                                                includingexperiencedTask Team Leadersand safeguards
                                                specialists.By the end of FY08, approximately60 percentof
                                                total operational staff for Africa will be in Country Offices.
                                                This trend will continue in subsequentfiscal years,
                                                accompanied by a strengtheningof local decision-making
                                                and accountabilityand adequate resourcesfor supervision,
                                                especiallyfor large, complex and risky projects.

                                                Action: The Africa Regionwill report in 12 months on
                                                progress in implementingits safeguardsAction Plan (see
                                                Annex 3) and the decentralizationof staff with a special
                                                focus on environment and social specialists. In line with the
                                                recommendationsof the FY07 IEG Review of World Bank
                                                supportto multi-countryoperations and the new Regional
                                                IntegrationAssistanceStrategyrecentlydiscussed by the
                                                Board, the Africa Region is developing bythe end of FYO9
                                                "best practice"tool kits.These tool kits will assist task teams
                                                to navigateprocess challengesand to betterachieve high
                                                standards of implementationmonitoringin complex regional
                                                programs.
Gas Flaring                               410,  Comment:Nigeriaflares around 20 billion cubic meters
Panel notes that during its investigation 414-  (Bcm) of gas per year out of a world total of 150 Bcm,
disit, members of communitiesfrom Delta   426   making Nigeriaone of the two largest gas flarers in the
-egioncame to meet with Panelto                 World. Nigeria is cognizantof the need to end routine gas
jescribe serious impactsthey endure             flaring, and significantsteps would needto be taken to meet
Tom flaring, and ask for all that can be        the December31, 2008 deadline. DuringProject appraisal,


                                                                                                      54

-                                                                        Management Report and Recommendation



No. IssuelFinding                                   Para. CommentIAction
                                                    nos.
    done to reduce and eliminatethis                      the difficulty of tracing the volumes of associatedgas going
    problem near their villages.                          into the WAGP as associatedand non-associatedgas was
    Panel's Report notesapparent                          acknowledgedsince all gas supply is commingled into the
    inconsistenciesin Management                          ELPS gas system supplyingWestern Nigeriaand WAGP.
    documentswith respectto expected                      Estimates (of associatedand non-associated gas
    contributionof flaring reduction. Panel               throughput)would have to be basedon the percentagesof
    notes the importanceof ensuringa                      eachgas going into the system from the manysuppliers to
    transparent monitoringof the impactof                 the pipelinesystem.
    Projecton gas flaring. The Paneltrusts                Managementagrees on the importanceof monitoringthe
    that Managementwill specificallyaddress               impact of the Projecton gas flaring; hence the PAD includes
    this issue in its Responseto this Report.             gas (AG - gas that would otherwise be flared) and non-
                                                          monitoringindicatorsfor the annual volume of associated
    Panel observesthat althougha few
    statements in Managementdocuments                     associatedgas (NAG) that will be transportedduring the
    were pointingout that Project impacton                Projectlife (see Risk Mitigation Measuresand in the Results
    overallflaring reductionwould not be                  Matrix).Gas flaring reductionwas highlightedin the PAD
    substantial, documents includeda lot of               becauseof its global and national importance, but
    text on gas flaring that was impreciseand             purposefullyexcluded as one of the Project'sdevelopment
    suggestiveof much larger benefit.This                 objectives.The PAD (includingthe economic analysis and
    raises a systemic issueas discussedat                 the EIA)took special care to not overstatethe Project's
    the concludingsectionof Panel's Report.               impacton gas flaring reduction (see item no. 26).
                                                          As noted in the PAD, WAGP was expectedto initiallycarry
                                                          only about 5 percent of the flared AG that could be captured
                                                          by the operatorsand NNPC in their efforts to cut down on
                                                          gas flaring in their blocks. Itwould thus contribute to the
                                                          reductionof gas flaring duringthe initialpipeline build-up
                                                          phasetowards the first plateauof 200 MMCF/day.Initially,
                                                          WAGP is expected to be supplied by a blend of AG and
                                                          NAG. AG is dependent on crudeoil productionand,
                                                          therefore, is a less reliable supply source of gas because of
                                                          the naturaldeclinesover time in the gas-to-oil ratio as crude
                                                          is produced.
                                                          By using NAG,WAGP would be less exposed to oil
                                                          production interruptionsas is nowthe case in the blocks
                                                          operated by Shell or ExxonMobil,where "force majeure"
                                                          stoppagesto the end of 2008 have beendeclared. MoreAG
                                                          is envisagedto be injected into the Nigeriandomestic gas
                                                          system, includingthe ELPSthat suppliesWAGP, as
                                                          demanddownstream increasesand investmentsin gas
                                                          separation plants and gas gatheringsystems are made by
                                                          operators to meetthe Governmentof Nigeria'splansto cut
                                                          flaringor face stiff penalties.

                                                          Action: Managementhas requestedthe Governmentof
                                                          Nigeriavia NNPCto provide informationabout NAG and AG
                                                          supply to WAGPA for monitoring purposesfor the Projectas
                                                          well as in the context of the GGFR.
26. Raising expectationsabout secondary 495               Comment: Managementacknowledgesthat there are
                                           ~~~    ~




    benefits                                              numerousreferencesin the Projectdocumentation
    Where statementsare madeto make a                     pertainingto reduction in gas flaring and the economicand

-   project politicallyattractive, for example            environmentalbenefits, regionaland global, that will result
    by repeated referencesto secondary                    From it, which could provide unrealisticexpectationsand
    benefits [in this case, gas flaring                   linkagesto Projectoutcomes. Managementalso recognizes


                                                        55

        Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline



 No. IssuelFinding
    I                                            Para.IComment/Action
                                                 nos.
     reduction], levels of expectationare              that gas flaring reduction is an important energy sector issue
     raisedamong stakeholderswho are                   that could not be ignored, particularlysince this Projectwill
     mainly interested in these secondary              be transportingsome levelsof associatedgas.
     benefits.And, as is brought home by this
     Request,when stakeholders do not see
     their justified expectationsfulfilled, they       Action: Managementis endeavoringto obtainthe
     believethat they have beenwronged.                commitmentof the producer, NNPC, and other partners (N-
I I  This also createsa reputationalriskfor            Gas, NGC, WAPCo, and WAGPA) to provide this
                                                       informationon an annual basis for monitoringpurposesfor
                                                       the Projectas well as in the context of the Global Gas
     theBank.                                          Flaring Reduction Program.




                                                                                                         56

                                                     ManagementReport and Recommendation


                                      Annex-2
                    West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) Project
                              SupervisionMissions
  Datesof the Mission  FunctionalAreas of MissionMembers         CountriesVisited
  May 12-20,2008       Task Team Leader                        IINigeriaand Ghana
                       Sr. EnergySpecialist
                       Sr. Energy Economist
                       Environmentaland Safeguards Consultant
  Nov 27 - Dec 07,2007 Task Team Leader
                       Sr. Social DevelopmentSpecialist.
                                                                 Nigeria, Benin,
                       Lead/Sr. Energy Specialists               Togo and Ghana
                       Sr. FinancialAnalyst
                       Environmentaland SafeguardsConsultant
                       Sr. Social Sector Specialist
                       Sr. Social DevelopmentSpecialists
                       Sr. Energy Economist
                       Sr. Operations Officer, OPCQC
                       CommunicationsOfficer.
  May 14-16,2007       Task Team Leader                        I Ghana




4 Mar 21 - 31,2007




-
5 Sep 22 -Oct 13,2006                                            Nigeria, Benin,
                                                                 Togo and Ghana




3 4pr 3-5, 2006

-                     Sr. FinancialAnalyst- ProjectFinance.
7 Jun 12- 17,2005     Environmentaland SafeguardsCoordinator     Nigeria, Benin,and
                      Social DevelopmentSpecialist               Ghana
-                     EnvironmentalSpecialist (MIGA)




                                      57

    Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


                                                   Annex 3


Reviews
All SD Sector Managerscompleteassessment of                       Done.
environmentaland social safeguardsteam membersfor FY08
for all projects with an "A" and "B" safeguardsclassification
and those projectsappearingon the corporaterisk list
(includingstaff, amountof time and coverage.
TRS review of safeguardswork carried out in FY07and FY08          Ongoing.
to identifyand correct coverage gaps.
CommissionQAG to carry out for SD analysis of findingsfrom        Ongoing. First phase coveringQEA3-QEA8
the lastfive QEAs and QSASon environmentaland social              to be completed06/09. Phase 2 reviewing
safeguards work, which will set baselinefor monitoringimpact      qualityof supervisionand implementationis
of Action Plan.                                                   underway.
                                                                  ..
                                                               I
StaffingActions
Hire4 new environmental specialiststo be located in the field  III
                                                               I      4 new IRS have been recruitedfor
and 1 in headquarters.Will helpdevelop and train LRSto                Kampala,Abidjan, Lilongweand Accra.
support teams.                                                        The HQ specialist is beingrecruited.
Hirea LevelGH LeadSocial SafeguardsSpecialistto signal            Lead Specialist selected. Interviewsfor 3 GG
importanceof safeguardswork. Hirethree new senior and             positionsare underway in June 2008.
experienced (LevelGG) social safeguardsspecialists,of
which 2 are in the field.
Retoolingof 2 social development specialiststo work on            2 staff selected, skills being upgraded, and
safeguards.                                                       both have begunto provide safeguards
                                                                  support.
Developmentof databaseon approved safeguards                      Databasecompleted (43 consultants).
consultants.

additionalones in FYO9
Ugandaand Tanzania: Country SafeguardsReviews.                    Ugandadesk reviewcompleted; field visit
                                                                  ongoing,to be completed Q1 FYO9.Tanzania
                                                                  plannedfor Q3 FYO9.
Cote d'lvoire- Country SafeguardsReviewfor projectsto be          Done.
reactivatedas IDA re-engagesin the country.
Sudan- Developcommonsafeguardsframework(following                 First reviewmissioncompleted; second
the Afghanistan model) better tailored to the country'sfragile    missioncurrently ongoing. As a follow-up and
setting.                                                          in additionto initial plan, government capacity
                                                                  buildingprogram is beingdevelopedand
                                                                  would be supported by a LlCUSgrant (under
                                                                  preparation).
Regionalprojects:ensure that these projectsare covered and        Periodic review of safeguardscoverage in
given adequateattention.                                          regionalprojectswith RegionalIntegration
                                                                  Directorand respectiveCountry Directors.
Training Program
SafeguardsTrainingfor ManagerdProgram                             Combinedand done on February29,2008
Coordinators/SectorLeaders.                                       duringSDN week (3 sessions in parallel).
Safeguardstrainingfor all Task Team Leaders;will be part of       Fivecountryworkshops are underway(May-
TTL accreditation; rollout training to CountryOffices.            June 2008).




                                                                                                           58

                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


                                                 Annex 4
                                      Status of Agreed Actions
Agreed Actions (as per Dec2007 and May2008 missions)                        Status       Target Date
EnvironmentalCompliance
Dec 2007:
Develop adequateindustry-standardERPs priorto any gas beingshipped.         Completed
Mav 2008:
Bank's reviewof ERPs done, and these arefound adequate. ESAP may
provide suggestionsfor further improvements.
Dec 2007:
Conduct consultationsand publicawareness regardingthe ERPs priorto any      Agreed       Whenever gas
gas being shipped.                                                                       flows
Mav 2008:
A safety brochurehas been produced, translated into local languages,and     Ongoing      May 08 -Apr
widely disseminatedby July 2008. Additionalpublic awareness meetings                     09
would be heldin the future, and printedinformationon relevantaspectsof the
ERPswould be distributed.
Conduct a communityseminar on the TakoradiERP, priorto the deliveryof       Agreed       June 2008
first gas.
Mav 2008:
EMPfor operationsis being prepared.The executivesummarywill be              Agreed       Upon start of
translated intoYoruba, and disseminatedamong the communitiesafter due                    operations
discussions.
RAP & EIA MonitorinaSvstem:
Dec2007:
Will finalize regional RAPand EIA monitoringsystems priorto April 1, 2008   Completed
and ensure that appropriatedatabase is in placefor continuedmonitoring.
Will provideadditionalhuman and capital resources,as needed,to undertake    Agreed       Ongoing
such monitoring.
Access Roadto the Laaoonin LaaosBeach ComDressorStation:
Dec 2007:
The Company will remove the accessroadto the lagoon, near Lagos Beach       Completed
Compressor Station,and consider providing accessto the local population
through the CDPs to supportthe people of Ajido community.
Berms at Tema and Takoradi:
Dec2007:
Will agreewith Ghana EPA on the processand parameters for                   Completed
decommissioningof berms at Tema and Takoradi, solicitadvice of the ESAP,
and submit the final proposalto the Bankfor review.
Will consultwith Tema Traditional Council and KponeTraditional Councilon
the dispositionof bouldersarisingfrom the decommissioning of the berms at   Noaction     Ghana EPA
Tema; the Company will consultwith Aboadze and Abuesi community             needed      directedthat
representativeson the dispositionof boulders arisingfrom the                             bouldersnot
decommissioning of the bermsat Takoradi.                                                 be shared
Will monitorpotentialimpactsfrom the pipelineshore crossingat Takoradithat
is not buriedto target depth and may act as a berm, and if needed,develop   Ongoing      May 08 -Apr
and implementmitigationmeasuresto addresssuch impacts.                                   10
Mav 2008:
Installmarkersat the seawardends of the berms at Takoradiand Tema, and
continue routine measurementsfor the multi-yearbeach monitoringprogram     Agreed       Dec 2008
at Takoradi.
Share the medicalscreeningreportprepared in responseto the water quality
incident caused by the hydrotestwater dischargewith the community, upon    Agreed       Whenever
receiptof a written requestfrom the community.                                          askedformally
Social Safeguards Compliance:
-and comDensationin Ghana:
Dec 2007:
3atesfor compensation,including land take, are satisfactory; landowners    No action
lave receivedreplacementlandfrom TDC. The estatesurveyorhas used           needed
market ratesand paymentsincludedsquatters.Tenants' crops were
:ompensated appropriately.The Company is notexpected to engage in any
smedial actions at Tema and Takoradisites regarding resettlementand


                                                 59

Ghana- WestAfrican GasPipeline


 compensation.
 Socio-economic Survevs:
 Dec2007:
 Will conduct follow-up socio-economic surveys in2008 and 2010 to assess         Agreed   May 08 - Dec
 Projectimpactson Project affectedpeople and larger communities.
                                     .    .        -                                       I O
 Mav20081
 Socio-economicsurvey(s) database would be developed,and resultsof               Agreed   Dec 31,2008
 follow-up surveys (to be conducted by WAPCo by end-December 2008, and
 vetted by independent consultants)would be sharedwith the Bank.
 Grievance Mechanism:
 Dec2007:
 Will review and revise, as appropriate, grievancemechanismsand                  Completed
 documentationin each country, and put in place programsto increase
 communityawareness of dispute resolutionprocedures.
 Mav 2008:
 Documentationon the Grievance Mechanismwould be shared, whichwould                       July 2008
 interalia includeinformationon accessibleproceduresfor third-party
 settlementof disputesarisina from resettlement,iudicialrecourse and
 communityand traditionaldisputesettlementmechanisms.
 ComDensation in Niaeria:
 Dec2007:
 The Companywill undertake an estimation of compensatingPAPS for each            Completed
 eligible claimanton the ROW based on updatedmarket ratesfor each type of
 asset (land, crops, trees, structures)in 2003-2004 and adjusted for inflationto
 2008 prices,consideringthe differentiatedland usefor 3 zones, and the most
 current IITNFAO agriculturalpricesfor Nigeria.
 Mav 2008:
 Documentationwould be shared on: (a) compensationmethodology for land           Done
 and tree/crops;and (b) sensitizationand consultation processwith details on
 informationdisclosure.
 A comprehensive community sensitizationprogramwould be undertaken               Underway June 30,2008
 during May 14-31.
 Full disclosureof livelihoodrestorationcompensation(underlyingreasons,          Underway June 30,2008
 methodology, calculations,payment process,grievance handling)would be
 ensured during the sensitizationmeetings.
 The IIT report by an AgriculturalEconomistfor treelcrop compensation would      Done
 be shared with the Bank.
 Land-take eaual or in excess of 50%:
 Dec 2007:
 The Company will undertake a reviewof the landtake for each claimantand         Done      Incorporated
 assure that landowners with equalto or greater than 50% of landwill receive              inthe new
 compensation for 100%of the land in consideration.                                       plan
 NiaeriaComDensation Davment Droaram:
 Dec 2007:
 The Companywill provideto the World Bank a draft detailedaccountof the          Completed
 proposed Compensation Payment Programto implementAdditional
 Compensation (in nominal2008 Nigerian Nairaand/or in kind) priorto January
 31,2008 and a final Compensation Payment Programpriorto February28,
 2008.
 Witness NGO:
 Dec 2007:
 The Company will hire an independentmonitor,e.g., Socialand Economic            Underway June 6,2008
 RightsAction Center, Action Aid Internationaletc. to document and witness
 :he paymentprocessfor "AdditionalCompensation".
 Wav 2008:
 NAPCowould expeditethe hiringof the witness NGO, and ensure its                 Underway EarlyJuly,
 xesence at the sensitizationand compensation paymentprocessas an                         2008
 ndependentobserver.
 'avment of Compensation in Niaeria:
 3ec 2007:
 The Company will completethe payment processfor "Additional                     Underway October,2008
 :ompensation" no laterthan June 30,2008; the Company will ensurethat an
 ndependentreview of this processwill be undertaken.

                                                                                                       60

                                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


Mav 2008:
Livelihoodrestorationland compensationpaymentswould be made during              Underway    October, 2008
June to October, 2008.
CDP andVulnerable Groups:
Mav 2008:
WAPCo would intensifyCDP implementationstrategyand focus on livelihood          Agreed      May 08-Apr
restoration.Documentation on fast tracking of CDPs, especially on livelihood                10
restorationactivities,and targetingof vulnerablegroupswould be providedto
the Bank.
WAPCo would undertake to: (a) includegender mainstreamingvariablesin            Agreed      August 2008
the socio-economic survey (b) retrofitits CDPswith activitiesthat will address
the concernsof the vulnerable groups; (c) incorporatetargetedsupport for
skillsdevelopment to allow empowerment activitiesto run concurrentlywith
constructionactivitiesunderCDP.
/nstitufiona// Others:
CoordinatinaTeam:
Dec 2007:
To strengthenmonitoringof implementationof safeguardsinstrumentsand             Completed
WAPCo monitoringteam, the Company will establisha qualifiedCoordinating
Team by December 15,2007, led byWAPCo's CorporateCompliance
Manager and includingstafffrom WAGP Project, Operations,and Finance
departmentsand additionalresourcesunderarrangementssuch as the
Technical ServicesAgreement with Chevron-Texaco to carryout the above
actions.
Mav 2008:
WAPCo would strengthen its institutionalcapacityby recruitingstaffwith          Agreed      June 2008
communitydevelopment and social safeguardsbackgroundfor performance
monitoringof the resettlement activities.WAPCo has also development
programfor capacitybuildingfor its staff, includingtraining program organized
by IFC(in May 2008);and capacity buildingtraining to be organized by MlGA
in July 2008.
ProaressReports:
Dec2007:
A 2-page summary report, along with an updatedAction Plan,would be              Monthly     May 08 -Dec
providedto World Bank on a monthly basis indicatingthe progress on              progress     10
outstandingenvironment and social mattersas noted intheAction Plan,             reports
includingpossible issuesthat could delay the implementationof actions.          being sent
                                                                                to WB
New lmdementationSchedule:
Mav 2008:
WAPCo shall develop the detailed Project implementationplan in consultation     Agreed      July 2008
with the new contractor(oncehired), and share it with the Bank at the earliest.




                                                  61



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 36115

                                                                                                                                                                                                              15                  10               5                0                             5              10             15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALGERIAALGERIA
                                                                                                     WEST AFRICA
                                                                                 REQUEST FOR INSPECTION:                                                                                                      20                                                                                                                                   20

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAURITANIAMAURITANIA
                                                                           WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MALIMALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NIGER

                                                                                                                                                                                                              15                                                                                                                                   15
                                                                                                                                                                                                              SENEGALSENEGAL                                                                                                                      CHAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHAD
                                                                                      COMPLETED WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT (BANK-FINANCED)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BURKINABURKINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FASO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ASO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GUINEA

                                                                                EXISTING GAS PIPELINES                       CITIES                                                                                                                                                                             NIGERIANIGERIA                      10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIERRASIERRA                               GHANAGHANA
                                                                                GAS SUPPLY AREA                              NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                    LEONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CTECTE                                        NIN                  ABUJA


                                                                                OIL AND GAS FIELDS                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                      D'IVOIRED'IVOIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LIBERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LIBERIA                                          OGOTOGOT BENINEB

                                                                                GAS TERMINAL OUTLET POINTS                                                                                                                                                   ACCRA                                                                              CENTRALCENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PORTO-                                          AFRICANAFRICAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                              5                                                           LOM                                                CAMEROONCAMEROON
                                                                                POWER PLANTS                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOVO                                            REPUBLICREPUBLIC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Area of Map

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10              5                     0                              5EQ. GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EQ. GUINEA                              15




   2                                                               1                0                                   1                            2         Isolation Valve   3               Alagbado Tee                4                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                        Ewekoro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Existing Escravos  Lagos Pipeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sagamu
                Kumasi                                                                                                                                     BENIN
                                                                                                                                                           BENIN                                                                                                                                 Ore
                                                                                                                                                                    Isolation Valve                                           Ejirin
                                                                                                                            T O G O
                                                                                                                                                                                            For detail          Egbin
                                                                                                                                                           PORTO NOVO                    see IBRD 36116                                                    N I G E R I A
                                                                                                                                                            Cotonou                                       Lagos                                                                                                     Benin City

                                                                                                                                                                                                      Onshore Pipeline
                                                                                                                                                                                                          System
                                                               G H A N A                                                   LOM
6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lagos Beach Compressor Station



                                                                               Tema
                                                                          ACCRA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Warri

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ughelli



                                                                                                                          Offshore Pipeline
                                                                                                                                System

5  Sekondi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5


  Takoradi




                                                                                                    G U L F                       O F                G U I N E A


                                                                                                                                                                                    0                   50                  100 Kilometers
    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4
    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                0                25          50                   75 Miles
    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

   2                                                               1                0                                   1                            2                           3                                            4                                                              5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAY 23, 2008

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 36116

2                     1                      0                      1                   2                      NIGERIANIGERIA  This map was produced by
                                                                                                               Area of Map                                                   Coker
   Kumasi                                                                                  BENIN
                                                                                           BENIN                                    the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                    World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                                       Orogbe
                                                                                                                                    colors, denominations and                                                                          Agoro
                                                                       TOGO
                                                                       TOGO               PORTO NOVO                                                                                                             Onihale
                                                                                                                       Lagos        any other information shown
                                                                                              Cotonou                               on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                    the part of The World Bank
                                                                           LOM                                                     Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                                          Oba
                                                                                                                                    legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                        Onshore Pipeline                                                                                                                                        AladeAlade                                     Orudu-Olokan
                                                                                                                                    or any endorsement or                 Mero
6           G H A N A                                                                                       System                 a c c e p t a n c e  o f s u c h
                                                                                                                                    boundaries.                                     RiverIju                                           OwodeOwode                                   IjokoIjoko  Alagbado Tee         Escravos  Lagos Pipeline    Magado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NIGERIA

                                          Tema                                                            Existing Escravos                                                     Ilogbo                                             IjakoIjako
                               ACCRA                                                                         Lagos Pipeline                                                                                                                                          Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IsorosiIsorosi
                                                                          Offshore Pipeline                                                                                                                                                                     Otta
                                                                              System                                                                                                                                        AjibodeAjibode                                              Itoki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Itoki                                                  Magboro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ijoko
                                                                                                                                                                                    Mosafejo                                                                    Sango-Otta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IjaliyeIjaliye
                                                                                                                             5                                                                                                                                                                                Lambe                   Igaun
                                                                             COMPLETED WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELINE PROJECT                                                Isale
Takoradi                                                                     (BANK-FINANCED)
                          GULF      OF     GUINEA                                                                                                                                                    EtereEtere EwupeEwupe                                                            Alagbado
                                                                             EXISTING GAS PIPELINE                                                                       Igboloye                                                                                                                       Oke-Aro
                                                                                                                                                                                            Igbangbo Igberen
                                                                                                                                                                                            Igbangbo Igberen                                             Otta
                                                                             GAS TERMINAL OUTLET POINTS                               Isolation Valve                                                                                                                                                                             Aketu-Oja
                                                                                                                                                                                          Egushi Benja
                                                                                                                                                                                          Egushi Benja
        0        50        100 Kilometers                                    CITIES

                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                Atan                                     IgboloyeIgboloye
4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I s h e r i
        0      25        50     75 Miles                                                                                                                                                                       Mopin                                                                          Ijaiye
                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        4                                                                                                                                                                         Iju
2                     1                     0                       1                   2                   3                                                                  ArobieyeArobieye                                                                                             Junction
                                                                                                                                                                                    Oloya/AbiolaOloya/Abiola                                                                                                 Ifako                     E s t a t e s
                                 NIGERIA                                                                                                                                                                                                         River
                                         Isalu                                                                                                             Kajola
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Itori                                                                                                                           Iseri
     REQUEST FOR INSPECTION:                                                            Olorunsola                                                                                                                                                    Ilo                WAGP runs in an existing Shell ROW,
                                                                                                              Onigbongbo                                                              Itori
                                                                                                                                                                                      Itori                                                                                                                               Omole
                                                                                                                                                               Erinle                                                       Ewu                                          adjacent to an existing Shell pipeline.                             River
             WEST AFRICAN GAS                                                                                                                                      Okomi                                                                                        Ikola
                 PIPELINE PROJECT                                                                                                                River Ore                                                                                                                                                                                         Ogun
                                                                                                                                                           Akere                                                           Olugbode
                                                                                                                        Owoye                                                            Oluke                                                            Ipaja

                       23 PROJECT-AFFECTED VILLAGES                                                                                                                         Fowowawo                                                                                                                                          Eregun
                                                                                          Onimosalas                                                                                                                                                     Atan                                                        IKEJA
                       LOCATION OF REQUESTORS                                                                                                                                                Idimu
                    OwoPROJECT PIPELINE ROUTE                                                               O G U N
                                            ADO-ODO                                                                                                                     Okoomi
                                                                                                                                                                        Okoomi                                                                                                                                                       Ojota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Oruba
                       NEWLY-ACQUIRED WAPCO RIGHT-OF-WAY (width not to scale)                                                                                                                                     Itele                                                                                                            Ogudu
                       EXISTING SHELL RIGHT-OF-WAY (width not to scale)                                                                                                                                                    Olorunda                                       Idowu
                       EXISTING ESCRAVOS-LAGOS GAS PIPELINE                                        Oniloabo                                                                      Muta
                       ESTATES                                                                                                                         IgbesaIgbesa                                                                                                                                          Oshodi

  Onfo
                       PRIMARY ROAD NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ikotun                           Eligbo                      Oworonsoki

                       SECONDARY ROAD NETWORK                            Isolation Valve                                                                River                               E s t a t e
                   EreTOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Isolo

                                                                                                                                                         a         a
                       STATE CAPITAL                                                                                                                        r               Igbessa
                                                                                             Eruku                Ilogbo Eremi
                                                                                                                  Ilogbo Eremi                                      Isaku                                                                                                                                         Mushin
                       STATE BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ijegun
                                                                                                                                       A     g      b
                                                                                                                                                                                   Iteku         RiverOwo                                                                                                           Suru-Lere
                                                                                300'E                                                                 Agbara                                                             Iba                                                                                                                      Lagoon
 630'N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Itire                                            630'N
                                          Irago                          Idagha Iyesi
                                                                         Idagha Iyesi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                    Ilogbo
                                                                                                                                                                    Ijanikin
                                                             Ipota                                                                                                                                                        L A G O S                                                                                  Iganmu
                                          0   1    2      3      4    5   6            Araromi Ale
                                                                                       Araromi Ale                                              Ologe                                                                                                                                                     Coker
           Yewa   River                                                                                                                                                            WAGP runs in a newly-acquired ROW,
                                            .5
                                                                                                                                              Lagoon                                                                                                                              Amuwo                                               Iddo
                                                    KILOMETERS                                                                                                                  purchased from landowners for the Project.
                                                  (approximate scale)
    Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum                                                                    Obele                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAGOS                Ikoyi
    of the West African Gas Pipeline Project                                                                                                                                Igbede                                                Ojo
    (representing 12 communities)                                                  Imeke Aggemowo
                                                                                   Imek Agemowo
                                                                                    m           m w                         Ikotun                      Idoluwo
                                                          Aradagun                                                                                                                                                                                                           Isunba                             Apapa
                                                                              Imeke                         Gbanko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Victoria
                 Lagos Beach Compressor Station
                                                                                                                                                         Moba                                                             Iyagbe                                                       Imore                                                        Island

            BADAGRY                 Topo                                                    Iworo                                                                                                                                                                    Ibese adagry Creek             Igbologun
                                                            Akarakum                                Badagry Creek                                                             Irewe                                                                                         B
         Badagry Creek                                                                                                      Tafi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Okeogbe
                                                                                                                                                  Maroko
                                                     Badagry Beach                                                                                                                                                                ATLANTIC                               OCEAN
                                                                                300'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY 23, 2008

