                                                                         52107
                                  Progress Report
                        to the Board of Executive Directors
               on the Implementation of Management's Action Plan
          in Response to tHe Inspection Panel Investigation Report on the
                    West .African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) Project

                                    I. Summary

1. Introduction. On April 25, 2008, the Inspection Panel submitted its Investigation
Report No. 42644-GH on the West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) Project to the Board of
Executive Directors. On JU11e 30, 2008, Management submitted its Report and a detailed
Management Action Plan . (MAP), developed in response to the Inspection Panel's
Investigation Report (see Table 1, Para 24). The MAP acknowledged gaps in three key
areas: (a) Social Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures; (b) Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Measures; and (c) Project Supervision.

2. On August 5, 2008, the Executive Directors discussed the above reports and endorsed
the MAP proposed by Management. The Board also asked that Management report on the
progress in implementing this action plan in six months. The first Progress Report,
covering the period August 2008 - January 2009 was submitted in February 2009. This
second Progress Report covering the period up to August 2009 is being submitted to the
Board in response to that decision.

3. Since the last Progress Report in February 2009, significant progress has been made
on the physical works: (i) free:-flow gas was delivered to Takoradi Power Company
(TAPCO) during April 26 .; May 16, 2009, until the supply from Nigeria was disrupted
on account ofvandalizatiori ()fthe pipeline (Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System [ELPSD in
Niger Delta; and (ii) mobilization of new contractors at all locations, and mechanical
completion expected by December 2009 with pre-commissioning activities planned
during first quarter 2010.

4. In terms of implementation of the MAP, key accomplishments include:

  (a) Social resettlement and compliance. Actions completed under the MAP, include:
  (i) a first quarter report on findings from the socio-economic survey for Nigeria; (ii)
  community development projects (CDP) projects for Years 1 and 2 largely delivered
  to beneficiary communities and being audited; (iii) appointment of a focal person for
  vulnerable groups in Nigeria, and development of targeted programs for vulnerable .
  groups; (iv) enhanced disclosure and consultation activities with affected
  communities; and (v) the grievance mechanism made operational and complaints
  resolved within agreed . time periods. Planned activities include: (i) Year 3 CDP
  projects focusing on livelihood and income generating activities; (ii) completion of
  additional compensation for land, crops and trees for lands with 50% or more land take
  in Benin; and (iii) estabtishment of a socio-economic database for monitoring and
  evaluation of project outcomes in all four countries.
                                                   -2-


    (b) Environmental and safety compliance. All actions under the MAP have been
    completed as follows: (i) collaboration with stakeholders on environmental
    management plan (EMP) and safety training has been achieved; (ii) emergency
    response plan and safety brochures have been prepared and widely disseminated; (iii)
    a new contract has been p'4t in place for EMP monitoring, and the first progress report
    has been completed; (iv)iwo WAGP staff have been assigned as environmental and
    social complianCe specialists for all construction activities; (v) the pipeline is marked
    on navigational charts art'd protected by a "no anchor" zone; and (vi) pipeline markers /
    buoys have been put utt at Takoradi, Tema, Lome and Cotonou. While all actions
    under the MAP have l5ten completed, the independent Environment and Social
  . Advisory Panel (ESAPj. had identified a number of actions which could further
    strengthen the environme.ntal compliance of WAGP. WAPCo has taken due note of
    these actions and is undertaking appropriate measures to address these concerns
    (Table-I).

                     Table 1: A.ctions identified by ESAP and Follow-up

 ESAP Recommendation.                   Status at Last Mission                 Planned Follow-up
Implement shoreline monitoring        Draft of the first beach           WAPCo will expedite completion of
program at Tema and Takoradi.         monitoring report was under        report and distribute to Ghana EPA,
                                      revision by the consultant.        World Bank, and ESAP
Monitor shoreline erosion in          Togo Ministry of Environment       WAPCo will continue to monitor
Togo.                                 and Forestry informed the          erosion and planned erosion control
                                      mission of a planned beach         activities
                                      stabilization project involving
                                      construction of groins. WAPCo
                                      has been working with
                                      government for better control of
                                      sand mining in Lome.
WAPCo should undertake a root:         WAPCo has recruited               WAPCo will continue to ensure
cause analysis of the discharge of    Environmental Resources            adequate Environmental and Social
hydrotest water at Takoradi.          Managers Limited (ERML), a         due diligence in carrying out
                                      reputable environmental firm to    hydrotest water discharge. The most
                                      help with environmental            recent water discharge was properly
                                      monitoring of project activities   monitored and carried out without
                                      including hydrotest water.         incident.
Adequate emergency response           All communities visited by the     WAPCo plans additional training at
plans and staff training have been    mission in the four countries      community level to ensure
completed. Additional attention       confirmed that they had received   sufficiently wide Qissemination of
to gas releases off site is needed.   emergency response training        safety information.
                                      from WAPCo. VRA has
                                      provided additional training for
                                      its operating staff and the
                                      employees at facilities near the
                                      thermal plant.
Maintain vigilance in monitoring      Local surveillance committees      WAPCo will continue all activities
activities near the pipeline to       continue to operate in Nigeria.    noted, particularly the outreach
minimize interference with its        Offshore pipeline protection       program to Ghanaian fishing
integrity.                            arrangements are in place, and     associations, on which it is
                                      port authorities and navies are    collaborating with the Navy.
                                      coming up to speed in enforcing
                                      them.
                                                  -3-


                                     WAPCo and enforcement
                                     authorities have conducted
                                     awareness training for.
                                     fishermen's associations.
Focus on a long tenn                 W APCo is conscious of the       W APCo has launched a number of
development relationship with        importance of a long-term        Community Development initiatives
Project affected people and their'   relationship with the Project    to foster a long-tenn relationship.
communities.                         affected people
Improve adherence to change          W APCo management is fully       W APCO will ensure considerable
management procedure                 aware of the importance and      overlap between outgoing and
                                     indicated commitment to ensure   incoming staff to ensure seamless
                                     better change management         transition and no loss of institutional
                                                                      memory as per safeguards due
                                                                      diligence and compliance.

   (c) Institutional issues      .and
                                project supervision. Concerted efforts have been made to
   strengthen institutional. ~apacity, and intensify project supervision, as follows: (i)
   the West African Pipeline Company (WAPCo) is taking steps for a smooth transition
   from the construction to operational phase; (ii) training on environmental and social
   safeguards has been provided to WAPCo staff and the contractors; and (iii) the task
   team has undertaken mbnthly field visits up to February 20'0'9, a full supervision
   mission took place in Ju1y 20'0'9, and a Bank-wide seminar and meeting with Bank
   staff and Inspection Panel members was organized in Washington DC in June 20'0'9 to
   share WAGP experiences and lessons learned for Africa regional operations.

5. The way forward. Some implementation challenges remain both in implementation
of the project and, more specifically, of the MAP, among them: (i) completing the
remaining works especially the compressor station in Nigeria, and commissioning of the
Reduction and Metering (:R&M) station and connecting line at Cotonou (Benin) by end
20'0'9; (ii) obtaining gas supPly from Nigeria for compressed gas volume - at least 133
million cubic feet per day"'- from the first quarter 20'10' (see Section IV); (iii) developing
and finalizing a livelihooa. restoration strategy with an appropriate monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system, payment of additional compensation in Benin, and initiation
of Year 3 CDPs on livelihbhd restoration; (iv) enforcing the no-anchor zone in Benin,
Togo and Ghana; and (v) teceiving TAPCO's (Ghana) financial obligation towards the
escalated project cost. WAPCo and the Bank Task Team are working towards the
resolution of these impleme'hlation challenges.

                 II.      Projeet Description and Status of Gas Delivery

6. Project Description. the Project is one of the Bank's major ventures into public-
private partnership involving four countries (Nigeria, Benin, Togo, and Ghana), but with
limited risk coverage. It coirtbines a risk mitigation strategy through an IDA Partial Risk
Guarantee (PRG) ofUS$50 ibillion, with respect to gas purchases of Ghana's Volta River
Authority (VRA) and Comtnunite Electrique du Benin (CEB); a Guarantee from the
Multilateral Investment and Guarantee Agency (MIGA) of US$75 million; and
                                                      -4-


commercial insurance to back the credit risk of WAPCo, VRA, and CEB. The Project
was approved by the Board on November 23, 20041 The IDA PRG insures a portion of
the VRA obligations to WAPCo under the Takoradi Gas Sales Agreement (TGSA) in the
event where톋 failure by vRA to pay the Nigerian gas purchaser, N-Gas Limited, results
in N-Gas terminating the rqsA. However, the IDA PRG does not cover breach of other
obligations undertaken by VRA or Ghana under the Project agreements. In terms of the
regional energy scheme, which notably decreases input costs and diversifies fuel supply
for the power sector, the Project is expected to expand investments in local industries and
enterprises in the four participating countries. The use of a cheaper and more benign
energy source is expected to .provide cost savings to users, and develop the economy
through competitiveness arid regional trade.

7. The Project consists of: (i) a 678 kilometer long pipeline that transports gas from
Nigeria to Benin, Togo, arid Ghana; (ii) lateral spurs from the main pipeline that move
gas to power generating Units in Ghana, Benin, and Togo; (iii) conversion of existing
power generating units to gas (financed by their owners); and, as needed, (iv) additional
compression investments. These are developed to meet the expected market potential of
about 450 million cubic feet per day (mmcfld), with a pipeline diameter of 20 inches. The
main trunk of the offshore pipeline is in the seabed, between 26 and 70 meters below the
ocean surface, and at an apptoximate distance of 15 to 20 kilometers from the shore. Gas
is transferred through latetal spurs, and the tenninal of the pipeline is at the Takoradi
Power Station in Ghana. the total area of land take was estimated at more than 200
hectares, with over 3,000 households within the right of way (ROW), 70 percent of which
lies in Nigeria..

8. Status of Gas Supply. The line was packed with gas during December 2008 - March
2009. Free flow gas volume of 30 mmcfld was. delivered to TAPCO during April 26 -
May 16,2009, and Turbine 1. switched from liquid fuel to gas during this period. The gas
was envisaged to be provided by Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (CNL) and Shell Petroleum
Development Co. (SPDC) in a 50:50 ratio; however, most of the supply came from CNL
during this period due to supply and processing problems with SPDC. The gas supply
from Nigeria was interrUpted from May 16, 2009 onwards on account of the
vandalization of the ELPS in'Niger Delta. The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has
taken a number of measures to address the security situation as follows: (a) declaring a
general amnesty to the militant groups in Niger Delta and initiation of dialogue with
groups ready for a peaceful resolution of issues; (b) announcing a socio-economic
development program amoul1ting to Naira 60 billion (approximately USD 390 million) in
the first phase; (c) stationing additional security forces in areas affected most by militant
actions; and (d) providing security to personnel operating and repairing the infrastructure
facilities in the restive areas. One of the major militant groups in the Niger Delta recently
announced a two-month ceasefire in response to FGN initiatives. However, the same
group publicly stated that rio repairs could be undertaken as a short-term condition for the
cease-fire. At present, gas supply to Nigeria's own power plants and industrial customers
is severely curtailed while supplies to WAGP are suspended. As the security situation


1 Its   total estimated cost at the time was $US 590 million.
                                                 -5-

improves, and given that the financial structure of the project incentivizes Chevron and
Shell to supply gas through the pipeline for returns to their investment, the expectation is
that the project would deH'Ver its objectives of economic gas supply over the medium
term.

                      III. Mjnagement Action Plan Implementation

9. The MAP is divided into sections referring to social safeguards compliance;
environment safeguards co'inpliance; and supervision. This section describes the specific
actions undertaken and th~ statuS of implementation, as shown in Table 2 below,
followed by a more detailed description specific follow-up activities.

                  Table 2: IDiplementation of Management Action Plan




1. W APCo to undertake consultations and sensitization       1. Completed. Consultation and sensitization
of communities on the method fdt livelihood restoration      of communities was completed prior to start of
compensation; and community development programs (15         the payment process in September 2008; fie1d-
completed by June 2008; consultations with affected          based Bank staff undertook monthly visits to the
communities to be an ongoing process). The field-based       project site until February 2009.
social specialist has observed soine of the consultations.
Management will undertake montltly follow-up, starting in
July 2008 until completion of the compensation process.
2. W APCo prepared a programoh livelihood restoration,       2. Completed. W APCo conducted a
including the methodology for aClditional compensation       satisfactory payment process in Nigeria for
for livelihood restoration for P A;?s using four zones;      additional compensation, and only litigation
verification ofP APs and intra- and inter-household access   cases remain; the payment process was observed
and claims completed in May 20(j8,; payments to be           by the Bank team as well as the Witness NGO;
distributed to PAPs by October iOos. Management will         monthly field visits were undertaken to receive
carefully monitor this program, in'Cluding through monthly   feedback from the PAPs.
field visits and the supervision mission (in Dec 2008).
                                                             3. Socioeconomic survey has been Completed
                                                             in Nigeria. The findings from the socio-
                                                             economic survey were presented in a workshop
3. An update of the socio-economic survey to be              organized by W APCo, and a summary will be
completed by December 2008; with a follow-up survey          translated into local languages and presented to
update in 2010 (at the end of RAP monitoring period to       communities. The Bank has reviewed the survey
assess income and livelihood inlpacts). The Bank will        methodology and results, and they have been
review survey methodology and results, which will be         validated by an independent consultant. Similar
validated by an independent consultant.                      surveys are planned for Benin, Togo and Ghana
                                                             to complete the socio-economic (baseline)
                                                             database of project affected households. These
                                                             are expected to be completed by March 2010.
                                                   -6-


4. WAPCo hired ITTA Agricu1tUta1 Economist who has             4. Completed. This activity was completed
submitted a report on adjusted cttip and tree prices, which    prior to start of actual payment and the ITTA
has been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.            provided inputs to the valuation of crops and
                                                               trees (in September 2008).
                                                               5. Completed. The adjusted crop and tree
s.  W APCo to undertake compensation of crops and trees
                                                               compensation and land valuation was calculated
(based on updated market rates); adjusted for inflation to
                                                               based on ITTAIFAO and market prices; the
2008 prices, and applying 4 differentiated land use zones
                                                               process of actual payments was completed in
and the most current ITTAIFAO ~gricultural prices in
                                                               September 2008. Management reviewed the
Nigeria, by October 2008. Management will review the
                                                               prices before the compensation payments were
prices before compensation paytnents are made.
                                                               made.
6. W APCo to intensify CDP iniplementation strategy,           6. Ongoing. CDP projects' for Year 1 and 2 are
focusing on livelihood restoratioh; skills development; and    largely complete and are being audited; Year 3
activities targeted for vulnerable Woups. (August 2008).       projects will focus on livelihood and income
The CDP will be further modified, based on the findings        generating activities.
of the updated socio-economic sUfVeys in 2008 and 2010.
Management will carefully monitor the CDP
implementation strategy, througR6ngoing field visits and
the December 2008 supervision mission.



                                                               7. Ongoing. The focal person for vulnerable
                                                               groups was appointed in Nigeria and a
                                                               coordinator for Benin, Togo, and Ghana is being
7. W APCo to document modiflCations to CDP activities          recruited. WAPCo has identified 64 households
to specifically address needs of VUlnerable groups             using gender and age criteria as indicated in
                                                               W APCo' s database. Specific programs to
                                                               address the needs of vulnerable groups are being
                                .....
                                                               developed.
8. W APCo to ensure full disclosUre of livelihood             . 8. Completed. Full disclosure of additional
restoration compensation (under1ying reasons,                   compensation was done prior to the start of
methodology, calculations, payment process, grievance           additional payment in September 2008.
handling) during community sensitization meetings
(Ongoing, fifteen community meetings held in May and
June 2008). Management will 1l10rutor progress in
disclosing relevant information ($ri compensation.


                                                               9. Ongoing. An appropriate monitoring and
9. . W APCo to continue to disctis~ with communities the       evaluation (M&E) system was set up by WAPCo
                                  in
results of RAP Audit (conducted 2007) and submit RAP           using a common template. Data entry from the
monitoring and consultation updates as part of its monthly     template is saved in a database and summarized
progress report (as provided in me Project's monitoring        in monthly reports. Feedback from the
and evaluation plan) to the Bank.                              Community Relations Representatives (eRRs)
                                                               are also recorded and monitored.
10. W APCo to hire an independ,erit monitor (witness           10. Completed. Witness NGO (Nigeria
NGO) by early July 2008 to document and witness the            Network ofNGOs or NNNGO) observed and
payment process for livelihood restoration additional          documented the compensation process and found
compensation.                                                  it satisfactory and transparent.
                                                    -7-


II. W APCo to ensure that the grievance mechanism             II. Completed. The grievance mechanism has
includes information on accessibl~ procedures for third      been working, and complaints are being resolved
party settlement of disputes arising from compensation        within agreed time period. As of April 2009 ,
and other aspects of the RAP, and improved                    WAPCo registered 21 complaints and 80% of
documentation of dispute resolution (nature of disputes,      these were resolved within a period of I to 4
parties involved, duration/timing) (July 2008). The Bank      months in Nigeria.
field visit in August 2008 will as~ess the effectiveness of
the grievance mechanism.
                                                              12. Ongoing. The participatory consultations on
12. W APCo to engage in particip.atory consultations with     the grievance mechanism are ongoing. The
affected communities on the grievance mechanism and           grievance mechanism is working (see item II
revise the procedures, as appropriate, based on feedback      above) and to date, there have been no
                                                              complaints against its working.
13. W APCo is ensuring that its ~ocial safeguards             13. Completed. W APCo has trained its social
personnel are being adequately trained in RAP monitoring,     safeguards staff through the second phase of the
as well as in the monitoring and evaluation of safeguards     MIGA training in June 2009. A post-training
compliance and of the community development program .         report was submitted by the trainer and is
At the same time, W APCo is increasing its social             available through the Bank and WAPCo.
safeguards staff through the recnlitment of 2 staff in        Adequate social safeguards staff exists in all four
Nigeria and one staff member in Ghana in June 2008. One       countries (Community Relations
staff each in Benin and Togo ~ idso being trained to          Representatives).
handle the social safeguards issueS. Management will
assess, on an ongoing basis, the safeguards capacity in
W APCo and other partners (e.g., local groups, witness
NGO).

                                                              14. Completed. W APCo sent two senior staff to
14. W APCo safeguards staff to participate in the IFC
                                                              participate in the IFC capacity building program
capacity building program organiied by IFC
                                                              in April 2008.
                                                              15. Completed. MIGA training was done in two
                                                              phases. There was an analysis of the institutional
15. W APCo to utilize an institution-building                 arrangements for monitoring and evaluation in
program/grant from MIGA by September 2008.                    August 2008. This was followed by a training
                                                              workshop for livelihood restoration in June
                                                              2009.




16. Management to ensure that.      is retained up to         16. Completed. ESAP visit carried out in
July 2009, to encompass remaining construction period         August 2008. ESAP is being retained until the
and initial operations.                                       completion of the project.
17. W APCo to translate the Executive Summary of the          17. Completed. Executive Summary of the
EMP for operations into Y oruba artd disseminate it among     EMP translated into Y oruba and disseminated to
the communities by August 2008. Management will               local communities in Nigeria, Benin, Togo, and
monitor the dissemination of the EMPs during its monthly      Ghana in August 2008. Dissemination process
field visits.                                                 monitored through CRRs.
                                                              18. Completed. Data on volumes of associated
18. Management to endeavor to obtain annual data from
                                                              and non-associated gas has been obtained from
DPR and NNPC by December 2008, on the respective
                                                              DPR for 2008. Similar data would be obtained
volumes of associated and non-associated gas to W AGP
                                                              for 2009 once gas starts flowing to Ghana.
through ELPS.
                                                     -8-


                                                          19. Completed. W APCo conducted ERP
19. W APCo to conduct ERP awt:treness meetings with       awareness briefings for more than 170
stakeholders and communities n~ar W AGP facilities, prior community residents in Nigeria and Ghana. VRA
to frrst gas (To be completed in JUne 2008).              safety and environment staff from the Takoradi
                                                          plant participated in the community briefings in
                                                          Ghana.
                                                              20. Completed. W APCo has completed
20. W APCo to produce a safety brochure, translate it into
                                                              production of the safety brochure, translated it
local languages, and widely diss~rhlnate it (July 2008).
                                                              into Yoruba and distributed 500 copies in
                                                              Nigeria.
21. Additional public awareness meetings to be held in     21. Completed. Follow-up meetings have been
the future, and printed informatiob on relevant aspects of held to ensure community awareness of
the ERPs to be distributed (Ongoirig). Management will     emergency procedures.
monitor the ERP awareness activities through regular field
visits.




22. Management to ensure a miriimum of two Bank               22. Completed/Ongoing. Supervision mission
supervision missions of 10-14 days' duration during the       took place during July 13-25, 2009; monthly
remaining construction period of the Project, with more       field visits continued until February 2009;
frequent/continuous formal and informal supervision. In       regular updates on the project has been provided
addition to technical, financial, aM economic specialists,    to AFR Management
Bank supervision missions to inclilde environmental and
social safeguards specialists (by December 2008 for the
first mission; by April 2009 for ilie second mission)
23. Management input and cootdtnation with the Country        23. Completed. A project supervision strategy
Office in monitoring the Project t& be strengthened with      was approved by Management in August 2008;
periodic reviews of Project Impiementation                    monthly field visits to project site, starting in
(ongoing).Management to allocate adequate budgetary           August 2008
resources for the supervision effOft - about 3 times the
normal supervision budget (FY08and FY09)




                                                              24. Completed/Ongoing. A Bank-wide seminar
24. Management to document, based on W AGP                    and meeting with Bank staff and Inspection Panel
experience, the lessons learned on supervision of public      members was organized in Washington DC to
private partnerships, and to bring this to the attention of   share W AGP experiences and lessons learned for
project teams handling similar complex projects               Africa regional operations;


                                                              25. Completed/Ongoing. Africa Region
25. Management to undertake in the future a more              environment and social issues analyzed through
comprehensive evaluation of the sector environmental and      country portfolio reviews, and recently, a special
social issues for projects involviiig new                     review of regional projects was Started; there is
borrowers/sponsors in a complex sector with many              also an ongoing review of regional projects in
actors/participants.                                          the oil and gas sector, using W AGP experience.
                                                  - 9-


                                                             26. Completed/Ongoing. Africa Region
                                                             energy, environment, and social websites
                                                             completed; the Region has started compiling
26. Management is developing ''best practice" tool kits to
                                                             documentation of best practice cases in energy
assist task teams in the Africa Region to navigate process
                                                             sector and regional projects; good practice
challenges and to better achievehlgh standards of
                                                             workshop on lessons learned in WAGP took
implementation monitoring in cothplex regional programs
                                                             place in June 2009; Africa Region safeguards
(to be completed by the end ofFY09).
                                                             training (mobile clinics) completed in FY08 and
                                                             FY09.
                                ' ...   '




Social Safeguards

10. WAPCo has completed: additional payments in Nigeria; socio-economic survey and
establishment of the baseline in Nigeria; livelihood enhancement and community
development; consultation and stakeholder participation; programs for vulnerable groups;
a functional grievance mechanism; and a monitoring and evaluation system.
11. Additional compensation. The first Progress Report described the process of
additional compensation and livelihood restoration. The Witness NGO's evaluation
rated the process as satisfactory. This is demonstrated by the completion indicators.
First, WAPCo has made payments to 95% of project affected persons (PAPs)
amounting to Naira 82.8 million out of Naira 87.0 million of the remaining amount of
payments, and 81 % of the number of PAPs (173 out of 215 households) under Phase 112
compensation. Second, payments were completed for claimants who were absent during
the initial payment in September-October 2008. As of June 2009, of the remaining 111
claimants, 43 were paid, representing 38.7% at a sum of Naira 23.8 million out of the
Naira 45.4 million set aside for compensation, or 52.5%. Delays were due to legal and
judicial procedures. Third, WAPCo has largely completed the claimants' verification
process. Meanwhile, in Bellin, the additional livelihood support to PAPs with 50% or
more land take in 4 comihunities is expected to be completed by the end of 2009.
Similar to the process adopted during the additional compensation in Nigeria, a Witness
NGO will be appointed to observe the process.
12. Socio-economic survey. The socio-economic survey in Nigeria has been completed
and included 192 respondents from 11 rural, 9 peri-urban, and 4 urban communities. The
findings showed the post-cbmpensation status of PAPs as improving in terms of a
general increase in incomes and livelihood opportunities. Some communities raised
concerns about longer-temi employment, erosion and flooding issues, social problems
among youth, ongoing issues on remaining compensation, and longer-term efforts to
keep communities informed about safety issues (e.g. gas leaks). Based on the findings
from the structured interviews and focus group meetings, the following are the major
recommendations for the CDP: (i) emphasis on youth skills and employment, including
entrepreneurial activities; (ii) capacity building for local leaders on governance and


2 Phase II is defined as additional c:ompensation to PAPs that were not included in the October 2008
compensation exercise.
                                            -10 -

 accountability; (iii) women;g livelihood support; and (iv) expansion of markets and
 access roads. Follow-up stitVeys in Benin, Togo, and Ghana (Tema) will be started by
 the end of 2009 and will provide critical input for community development plans and
 activities.
  13. Livelihood enhancement and community development. Currently, the CDPs have
  completed 24 community. infrastructure facilities and augmented the existing
  community delivery of health, education and marketing services. However, while some
  of the facilities are operational (e.g. a health clinic in Nigeria; school blocks in Togo),
  others appear to have either broken down as a result of poor quality construction by
  local community contractors or because of a lack of maintenance by local goveriunent
  agencies who had committed to provide health and education staff and resources. These
  include, for example, the unused health care and small market building in Togo;
  underused primary school iii Benin; and two water sub-projects in Nigeria. WAPCo is
. currently undertaking a technical, and operation and maintenance audit of these facilities
  and evaluating ways of improving these structures.
 14. Drawing on the lessons learned from Years 1 and 2, WAPCo has begun
 strengthening its partnerships with local communities and government agencies for long-
 term operation and maintenance. Livelihood support has been minimai in Years 1 and 2,
 although a few prograins to support women's activities (e.g. market stalls in Ghana)
 have been provided to local communities. Some promising livelihood opportunities that
 can be covered in the CDP,such as sand mining, are being done by women in Togo and
 Nigeria. In Togo, communities asked for support to expand vegetable farming and a
 lucrative and self-sustaining commercial use of sanitary and toilet facilities. Following
 advice from ESAP and previous World Bank missions, WAPCo will continue to
 strengthen efforts to develop and implement CDPs during Year 3. that focus on
 livelihood restoration.
 15. Consultation and stakeholder participation. WAPCo has completed disclosure,
 consultations, and participatory programs through its Community Relations
 Representatives (CRRs). Feedback from these consultations is recorded in a database.
 Together with the 'surveyresults, feedback will be summarized and disseminated
 through village and focus group meetings. In Togo and Benin, the CRRs have organized
 community monitoring c01nmittees that provide timely comments on CDP and
 livelihood related programs.
 16. Programs for Vulnerable groups. A vulnerable groups coordinator (or ''point
 person") in Nigeria has completed targeted programs for vulnerable people who belong
 to the categories of youth, women, disabled, or seriously ill. WAPCo is in the process of
 recruiting a vulnerable groups coordinator for Benin, Togo, and Ghana. Programs for
 vulnerable people will be. started under Phase III of the CDP. Examples of such
 programs are skills trainirig. for youth in all four countries; self-reliance reinforcement
 management proposed fot Togo; women and youth agricultural sub-projects like
 vegetable farming near Gbesogbe primary school in Togo; and support for women's fish
 drying ovens in Takoradi, Ghana.
 17. Grievance mechanism. the grievance resolution process is operational. PAPs are
 able to file their complaints either through their community leaders or the CRRs who
                                          - 11 -

visit their villages on a weekly basis. W APCo maintains a template for tracking
grievances, indicating the date of filing; nature of complaint; persons involved; and date
and manner of resolution. As of April 2009, for example, in Nigeria, 21 complaints were
register~ and 80% of these were resolved within a period of 1 to 4 months. Examples of
grievances that remained Uriresolved for over 3 months covered difficult issues such as
labor, wage, or contractual disputes with a former contractor and some undocumented
land titling or land claims.
18. Monitoring and evaluation system. WAPCo uses a monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) template for assessing the quality of community infrastructure as measured in
terms of usage; degree to \Vhich the service meets local needs; and peoples' perception
of the service. These are then compiled in a centralized database. These measures are
supplemented by informatioll gathered from the socio-economic surveys; feedback from
weekly village meetings arid consultations (documented in CRR progress updates); and
audits (WAPCo hired a consultant to do the audit of community infrastructures).
19. Way forward. WAPCo is committed to a participatory community development
approach. The following actions will be undertaken during the next 6 to 12 months.
First, WAPCo will finalize all additional payments in Nigeria and Benin, including
resolution' of any compensation issues. Second, WAPCo will complete the audit of the
community infrastructure sub-projects; initiate the repairs; and finalize operating and
maintenance arrangements with service providers. Third, the CDPs will enhance skills
training and WAPCo will appoint a vulnerable groups coordinator, especially in the
areas of youth employment; women's livelihood; and support to disabled populations
(e.g. scholarships to the Badagry skills acquisition center and other skills enhancement
programs). Fourth, WAPed will coordinate local government agencies in the critical
areas of security and protection of facilities and segments of the pipeline, as initiated by
the Governor of Lagos State.


Environmental Safeguards
20. All the corrective actions proposed under the MAP have been completed. The
following paragraphs present an account of the achievements over the past six months.

21.Worlg?lace Safety. wApCo's commitment to workplace safety remains consistent
and effective at alllocati6ris(Badagry, Cotonou, Lome, Tema and Takoradi). All sites
are clean and orderly, safety briefings are held at the beginning of each site visit, and
compliance with rules on personal protection equipment (PPE) use appears universal. The
company reports 2,103,462 man-hours worked through June 2009 without a lost-time
accident.

22. Community Safety. All communities around the WAGP project in Nigeria, Benin,
Togo, and Ghana have confitmed that they received emergency response training from
WAPCo. The extent of this training varied from one location to another, but, in general,
the awareness sessions reached a significant number of community leaders and local
officials. Ideally, they wo#ld have passed along the information they received to the
communities at large, but this has not occurred. WAPCo is planning follow-up rounds of
training to reach a larger segment of the population. There is a suggestion that the
                                                - 12-


awareness-raising be extended to children in local schools, and the head teacher in one of
the Community Development Program (CDP) schools in Benin, offered to have pipeline
safety taught in science claSses ifWAPCo would supply written material that the teachers
could use. VRA environmental and safety staff have joined WAPCo in aU safety training
administered in communities around Takoradi, and VRA includes gas safety training in
weekly safety training wo~kshops at the plant. VRA has also provided emergency
response training to staff iIi the school and club on its plant site and has scheduled
training for its hospital staff.

23. Offshore Pipeline Security. The pipeline is marked on the pertinent British
Admiralty and French S:UOM3 navigational charts. WAPCo and the WAGP Authority
(WAGPA) have reached agreement with port authorities and navies in the four countries
on establishment and enforcement of a pipeline protection zone (PPZ) with boundaries
one nautical mile on either side of $e pipeline. WAGPA is amending the pipeline
regulations to reflect the PPZ. WAPCo is about to install the last of 22 buoys that mark
the location of the main Ht).e and laterals in the vicinity of ports and other critical
locations, including the seaward ends of the berms at Takoradi and Tema. The Port
Captain and the Navy detachment at Cotonou have been made aware of pipeline security
issues and the PPZ and buoys are marked on the radar screen used to control ship
movements at the port. The Port authorities and the Navy have outreach programs to
make ship captains, shipping agents, and fishermen's associations aware of the pipeline's
location and the precautions that are necessary when operating in its vicinity. WAPCo
reports that the PPZ is alsQ marked on the radar screens at Lome and Tema. WAPCo is
engaged jointly with the Gh~aian Navy in an awareness campaign to protect the pipeline
from the illegal and extremely hazardous practice of fishing using explosives that is
known to occur along the Ghanaian coast.

24. Environmental Monitoring. WAPCo has engaged Environmental Resources
Managers Limited (ERML),. a highly-reputed Lagos-based consulting firm, to conduct
routine monitoring of ES:MP implementation and environmental quality during the
remainder of the construction period. The arrangement is working very well, and ERML
has submitted the reports of its first round of monitoring in Benin, Togo and Nigeria and
is presently in the field in Ghana. The review of the draft report for Togo confirms it is of
excellent quality and shows nearly complete compliance with relevant ESMP actions and
no significant changes in ei1Vironmental quality since 2004. In addition, ERML has been
called on by WAGP to carty out specialized monitoring for sensitive activities, such as
discharge of hydrotest water in LBCS, Nigeria and the repair of the break in the offshore
pipeline at Lome. W AGPalso engaged SGS for the monitoring of discharge hydrotest
water in Takoradi R&M Station (which was carried out with no problems and witnessed
by Ghana EPA). ERML will be on site to monitor water quality when the 8-inch gas
lateral line is installed across the lagoon in Benin. WAGP has designed ERML's contract
to build capacity in the foui Countries, by means of: (i) subcontracting a local expert from
each country to serve as the .ESMP coordinator, who will work with WAGP's HSE
officers and environmental specialists; (ii) providing hands-on training in sample


3   Naval Hydrographic and Oceanographic Service.
                                         - 13-

collection and use of field monitoring equipment to local technicians and the Health,
Safety and Environment (HSE) officers; and (iii) acquiring laboratory equipment to be
used by and left in the custody of the university laboratories that ERML has engaged in
each country to perform . lab analysis and, in the case of sound meters, with the
environmental agencies. The report of the beach monitoring program, being prepared by
a different consultant, is currently under review by WAPCo and revision by the
consultant.

25. Implementation of Environmental and Social Management Plans (ESMPs).
According to the recently-concluded Bank supervision mission, there are no significant
adverse impacts along the Right-of-Way (ROW) in Nigeria and at any of the stations in
the four countries. Beach erosion appears to have stopped at Takoradi as a result of the
partial benn removal, and there are signs of accretion in the previously eroding area
immediately down-current from the pipeline shore crossing. Waste management
practices, including separation, recycling, and use of a manifest system to track waste
disposal are exemplary at all facilities. WAPCo has strengthened its organizational
capacity to promote and oversee implementation of mitigation measures set forth in the
ESMPs for each country. In addition to the HSE Officers at LBCS and the R&M
Stations, whose primary dtlties emphasize safety but also cover waste management, the
WAGP HSE Advisor has two Environmental & Regulatory Compliance Specialists that
report to him and coordinate environmental mitigation, monitoring and reporting
activities. ERML has assisted these WAGP staff members in conducting ESWESMP
workshops for employees of DBN in Nigeria (January 2009) and Zakhem in Benin
(February 2009). WAGP construction staff and regulatory agency personnel participated
in the workshops. The HSE Advisor is following up to ensure that new staff and staff
that may have been away on rotation during the workshops also receive this training.

26. Reporting. WAPCo has strengthened its reporting and provided copies of numerous
spechd reports it has submitted to the environmental agencies in the four countries. The
company considers its working relationships with all of the agencies to be excellent.
WAGP's environmental experts hold quarterly meetings with the respective
environmental agencies and provide updates on outstanding issues. The Ghana
Environmental Protection agency (EPA) has, however, expressed concern that it has not
received written monitoring reports, which it would prefer instead of quarterly meetings,
and has not been sufficientfy kept up to date on the beach monitoring programs. WAPeo
is reviewing the ERML reports and beach monitoring report. They will share these
reports with Ghana EPA once their internal review is complete and the Consultants have
submitted the final report.

27. Environmental Management in the Transition from Construction to Operation. This
is an area that is particdiarly important at major transition points such as from
preparation to construction and, now, from construction to operations. Responsibilities
transfer to new teams, arid "institutional memory" can be lost, including established
practice in ESMP implemerltation and mitigation measures, and adverse impacts may
result. In this regard, a team overlap has been assured between WAGP's construction
teams and WAPCo' s operations staff, particularly evident at LBCS and Itoki, where the
construction and operations superintendents and HSE officers are working together.
                                            - 14-

Operations staff have also had the opportunity to participate in the ESMP workshop at
LBCS. WAGP has hired ati HSE analyst who is compiling all the reports and other
documents on environmental and regulatory matters in a central filing system, for
efficient and effective handovei to the operations staff members who will take over the
HSE functions.

28. Way forward. The progress in ESMP implementation, environmental monitoring,
collaboration with regulatory agencies, reporting and information management has been
substantial since December 2008. There are no significant shortcomings requiring
attention at present; however, Management has suggested that WAPCo devote its
attention to the transition issues and in particular, consider the following: (a) filling of the
vacancy of the Regulatory Compliance Manager; (b) engagement of counterparts for the
two Environmental & Regulatory Compliance Specialists; (c) formulation and
implementation of a practical and durable, long-term impact and compliance monitoring
program; and (d) implemerrtation training for any operations staff members that have not
attended an ESMP workshop; WAPCo has concurred with these suggestions.

Supervision (AFR Region itnd Project)

29. Management in the Africa Region has continued to ensure strong oversight of the
Project, and received and reviewed periodical progress reports. The Country Directors in
Nigeria and Ghana, and CoUntry Managers in Benin and Togo, have closely monitored
progress on the Project. The Task team has been predominantly located in the field but
has received advice and guidance from the Sector Manager, Sector Director and the
Regional Vice President. Following is the progress over the period February-July 2009:
  (a) Bank supervision nl1ssions. A full-fledged Bank supervision mission, comprising
  of professionals from the HQ and the field, took place during July 13-25, 2009. The
  mission reviewed physical progress, and compliance with the environmental and social
  safeguards by WAPCo. Particular attention was paid to the review of progress on the
  implementation of action agreed MAP. While the implementation of environmental
  actions is complete, there are some residual actions in complying with the social
  safeguards (see paragraph 18).
   (b) Monthly field visits. The task team undertook monthly field visits, and undertook
   consultation with the PAPs up to February 2009 (at the time of submission of the first
   six-monthly Progress Report). In all, six monthly field visits have been undertaken
   starting from July 2008 and they have helped establish a strong relationship with the
   communities around the project area.
30. WAGP experience dissefuination meeting. A Bank-wide seminar and meeting with
Bank staff and Inspection Panel members was organized in Washington DC on June 16,
2009 to share WAGP experiences and lessons learned for Africa regional operations.
The key speakers were the Managing Director and General Manager Corporate Affairs,
WAPCo who made a detailed presentation and answered questions. A number of one-on-
one meetings were also organized to disseminate the experience in handling the safeguard
issues on the project.
                                                - 15 -

31. Implementation of Management Action Plan. Table-2 (Page 5) provides a
comprehensive account of actions taken during the last six months.

                         IV. Outstanding Issues and Way Forward

Gas Supply

32. Gas supply from Nigeria: Production of gas from Associated Gas (AG) and Non
Associated Gas (NAG) fields in Niger Delta by SPDC and CNL is subject to a variety of
uncertainties. The most sigtrificant issue is the supply of gas by the producers, and the
security of gas transmission infrastructure which has been repeatedly vandalized in the
recent past. It is evident that while the WAGP pipeline and associated facilities could be
completed in the coming months, the Project Development Objectives (PDO) could be
seriously affected if gas sdp'plies from Niger Delta fields are either not available or are
disrupted4  Since current gas supplies are less than potential demand in Nigeria, a system
of "nomination" exists - producers indicate gas availability to the Nigerian Gas Company
(NGC), which then decides how to deliver it to specific customers.

  33. The domestic sector is also faced with gas processing and transmission infrastructure
  constraints. The existing infrastructure is old and requires rehabilitation and upgrading.
  Most of the gas transported from the fields to the market is through the ELPS, and little
  or no system redundancy is currently available. The fields in East and West Niger Delta
  are presently not connected. Conscious of these infrastructure issues, FGN announced a
  new Gas Policy 2008 under.which following measures were announced: (a) phased gas
  price rationalization to attain $1 per mmbtu by 2012; (b) development of a commercial
  framework for contracts; (c) solicitation of private investments in gas processing and
  transmission pipelines as pet Gas Master Plan (GMP); (d) Domestic Supply Obligation
. (DSO) and establishment of a Gas Aggregator; and (e) enactment of a Petroleum
  Industry Bill (PIB) to provide the legal underpinnings of the development in the gas
  sector.

34. Expectation of gas supply in excess of foundation volume. The power utilities and
IPPs in Benin, Togo and Ghana are expecting gas in excess of the foundation volume
(133 mmcfd). No contracts exist between NGas (the purchaser of gas from SPDC and
CNL) and such potential customers. It is very unlikely that Nigeria would be able to
supply more than the foundation gas volume at least in the short-term; however,
construction of the power plants continues in the three countries in the expectation of
much greater gas exports from Nigeria. The Bank and WAPCo have repeatedly raised
these concerns with the FGN and will continue to do so at the highest levels. Oil and gas
discoveries in Ghana open up a future potential for additional gas supply from the other
end (backflow from Takoradi to Tema and beyond) of the pipeline as well.




4It is also recognized that securitY-problems not only affect WAGP, but have much greater consequences
for the power generation in Nigeria.
                                          - 16-


Social Impacts and Mitigation

35. Development of a liveiihood restoration strategy with an appropriate M&E system.
WAPCo has primarily undertaken CDPs in Year 1, which provided physical
infrastructure facilities to the communities. However, moving from this strategy to CDPs
aimed at livelihood restoration in the coming years will be a challenge. It is also
important to have a strong. M&E system with active community participation. Since
WAPCo may not possess adequate past experience, it is critical that the Bank continue
intense supervision on this. aspect of social impact mitigation, including provision of
technical advice during missions, as necessary.

36. Sustainability of completed CDPs. It has been observed that there has been
inadequate interface between WAPCo and the local government in ensuring the
sustainability of completed CDPs. Hence, hospital blocks have not been used because
either the staff or the medicines have not been provided, or schools have not been used
because the teachers are not available. It is important that high-level intervention is made
by WAPCo to ensure that support of the local governments is forthcoming.

37. Additional compensation in Benin. While this is not envisaged to be a major issue,
the additional compensation for land (where the land-take is more than 50% of the total
holding) in Benin needs to be expeditiously completed. WAPCo is cognizant of this
issue, and is taking the neceSsary steps to resolve it.

Environmental and Safety Impacts and Mitigation

38. Environmental audit and regulation. Power plants in Ghana, Benin and Togo are
being constructed on the assumption that fuel supplies (gas) would soon be available.
This is a positive developtrlent and is being induced by the implementation of WAGP
project. However, because the 80 MW power plant in Cotonou, 100 MW IPP plant in
Lome, and a number of IPPs in Tema are not considered associated projects with WAGP,
their environmental impacts will be managed under national environmental regulation in
each of the three countries.

39. Enforcement of no-anchor zone in Benin, Togo and Ghana. The WAGP pipeline has
suffered damage in the past on account of unauthorized anchoring by a ship near
Cotonou. While the Port authorities and Navy in the three countries are being engaged,
they lack resources for enfurcement of the no-anchor zone. WAPCo is providing some
support to the authorities iii the short-term; however, WAPCo recognizes the need for
long-term institutional strengthening and budget support to avoid any potential mishap to
the pipeline system. Management is following up with WAPCo and the Governments.

40. AG and NAG gas volUme data. The data on associated and non-associated gas in
Nigeria (producer-wise) is available with the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR),
which can provide useful indications on the reduction of gas flaring. Intervention is
needed at the highest levels- to ensure that such data is made available to the Bank on a
continuing basis in the future.
                                          .. 17 -


Other issues

41. Payment by TAPCO. While all share-holders have paid their due amounts, TAPCO
is yet to pay about $42 million as its contribution to WAPCo for cost over-runs.

42. Payments by the Goverfu:nents to WAGP Authority. Except for Nigeria which paid
its dues in the Year 2008 oiIfy, none of the four countries have paid their contribution to
WAGPA which they thems~lves established for the regulation of gas exports. This has
caused concern and doubt a~~)Ut the commitment of the governments to WAGP. The July
2009 supervision mission, raised the issue with all four Governments, all of which
promised to review the issue.

Conclusion

43. As indicated above, the Project has made significant progress and many of the
activities in the Managen:tclit Action Plan are completed. As the issues involved are
complex and several areas of implementation, including the supply of gas, continue to be
challenging, Management ,'recognizes .that maintaining strong supervision, close
monitoring, and high level dialogue are critical. Management proposes reporting back to
the Executive Directors in it year's time on progress achieved to date.
