INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                                   67923



           FOURTH PROGRESS REPORT TO THE
         BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE
     IMPLEMENTATION OF MANAGEMENT’S ACTION PLAN

                            IN
 RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
                      NO. 42644-GH
                        ON THE

      WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELINE (WAGP) PROJECT
           (IDA GUARANTEE NO. B-006-0-GH)




                    MARCH 29, 2012
            Abbreviations and Acronyms

AIS               Automatic Identification System
CDP               Community Development Projects
CEB               Communaute Electrique du Benin
CRR               Community Relation Representatives
CY                Calendar Year
DPP               Disaster Preparedness Plan
DPR               Department of Petroleum Resources (Nigeria)
EMP               Environment Management Plan
ERP               Emergency Response Plans
ESAP              Environment and Social Advisory Panel
ESMP              Environmental and Social Management Plan
FAO               Food and Agriculture Organization
FMEnv             Federal Ministry of Environment (Nigeria)
FoE-Ghana         Friends of the Earth Ghana
GEPA              Ghana Environmental Protection Agency
IDA               International Development Association
IFC               International Finance Corporation
IITA              International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
MAP               Management Action Plan
MIGA              Multilateral Investment and Guarantee Agency
Mmcf/d            Million Cubic Feet per Day
MOU               Memorandum of Understanding
NGO               Nongovernment Organization
NNNGO             Nigeria Network of NGOs
NNPC              Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
PAP               Project Affected Persons
PRG               Partial Risk Guarantee
RAP               Resettlement Action Plan
ROW               Right of Way
TGSA              Takoradi Gas Sales Agreement
UEMOA             West African Economic and Monetary Union
VRA               Volta River Authority
VTMS              Vessel Traffic Management System
WAGP              West African Gas Pipeline
WAPCo             West African Gas Pipeline Co.
                                         Fourth Progress Report

                            West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) Project

                                            Executive Summary

Background

1.     The West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) Project consists of a 678 kilometer
onshore and offshore pipeline that transports gas from Nigeria to Benin, Togo, and
Ghana, providing gas to power generating units. Under WAGP, risk mitigation is
provided through an International Development Association (IDA) Partial Risk
Guarantee (PRG) of US$50 million, with respect to gas purchases of Ghana’s Volta River
Authority (VRA), a Guarantee from the Multilateral Investment and Guarantee Agency
(MIGA) of US$75 million, and commercial insurance to back the credit risk of VRA. The
Project was approved by the Board on November 23, 2004,1 and the physical work
commenced in early 2005. The availability and use of a cheaper and more
environmentally-friendly energy source is envisaged to provide cost savings to users, and
develop the economy through competitiveness and regional trade.

2.       On April 27, 2006, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection from
Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum of the WAGP (Nigeria) and Friends of the Earth
Ghana (FoE-Ghana). The main complaints related to the Bank’s non-compliance with its
own safeguard policies and procedures, low compensation rates for the land taken,
damage to land and livelihoods, gas flaring reduction in the Niger Delta, the safety of an
associated pipeline, impact of construction activity on fishing, and inadequate
consultation on coastal fisheries in Ghana. The Panel submitted its report on April 25,
2008. The Management Response to the Panel Report explained how the Bank had made
significant efforts to apply its policies and procedures but recognized that further work
was needed to strengthen the supervision of the Project and in particular to ensure
compliance with Bank Policies.

3.    The Board approved a detailed Management Action Plan (MAP) on August 5,
2008, which sought to address inadequacies in four key areas: (a) Social Impact
Assessment and Mitigation Measures; (b) Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Measures; (c) Project Implementation and Supervision; and (d) Systemic issues.

4.      The Board asked Management to report on progress in implementing the MAP
every six months. The first Progress Report, covering the period August 2008 - January
2009 was submitted in February 2009, and the second, covering the period February 2009
- August 2009 was submitted in October 2009. The Board subsequently agreed to
reporting on a yearly basis. The third Progress Report covering the period up to January
2011 was submitted to the Board in March 2011. This fourth progress report covering
January-December 2011 is being submitted in March 2012.



1
    Its total estimated cost at the time was US$ 590 million.

                                                         i
                                                        West African Gas Pipeline Project


Current Status of the Project and Gas Supplies

5.      While the Project encountered construction delays, and the original Project
completion date of June 2009 could not be kept, free-flow gas was supplied to the VRA
in Ghana on a “best-endeavor? basis starting in early 2010. All outstanding construction
was completed by March 2011. Compressed gas has been supplied both to VRA at Tema
and Takoradi, and to the Communauté Electrique du Benin (CEB) at Lomé, and delivered
at an average volume of 90 million cubic feet per day (mmcf/d) during the last several
months, compared to the 133 mmcf/d envisioned in the gas purchase agreements. The
take-or-pay commercial framework was made effective as of November 1, 2011, and the
contracting parties have agreed on ramped-up gas supplies, starting from at least 65
mmcf/d in November 2011 and reaching the target level of 133 mmcf/d by May 2012.

Implementation of Management Action Plan

6.     Social Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures. The following activities
outlined in the MAP have been completed: (a) consultations and sensitization of
communities; (b) implementation of a new round of compensation for crops and trees
based on fair market value and adjusted prices; (c) updates of the socio-economic survey
of Project affected persons; (d) assignment of a Project staff for targeted vulnerable
groups during the compensation period; (e) provision of the livelihood restoration
program; (f) full disclosure of compensation process; (g) engagement of an independent
monitor to witness the payment process; (h) establishment of an adequate grievance
mechanism that incorporates the use of alternative and Project level dispute resolution
methods; and (i) training of safeguards staff, including staff participation in the IFC- and
MIGA-sponsored capacity building training programs.

7.       Due to the participatory approach adopted, some social safeguard activities are
still ongoing, including the following: (a) implementation of Community Development
Projects (CDP) focusing on enhancing income earning and livelihood based activities; (b)
progress of modifications to the CDP activities to better address needs of vulnerable
groups; (c) periodic discussion with communities, and implementation of Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) monitoring, evaluation and consultation updates; and (d) continued
participation of affected communities on the grievance and dispute resolution
mechanism. It is expected that the CDPs for the third year, focusing on livelihood
activities, would be completed by the end of FY2013.

8.      Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Measures. All environment-related
actions contained in the MAP have been completed. The independent Environment and
Social Advisory Panel (ESAP) has continued to provide advice during the last three
years. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the construction phase was
translated into the local language, and the EMP for operations is being translated. Initial
Safety and Emergency Response Plan (ERP) training has been completed, and the
training series are continuing on a periodic basis.

9.     Project Implementation and Supervision. Intensive Project supervision has been
ensured during the past four years, and at least two missions a year have been undertaken.

                                             ii
                                                               West African Gas Pipeline Project


Multi-disciplinary teams including technical, financial, economic, environmental and
social safeguards specialists have been constituted with adequate field presence.

10.    Systemic Issues. Adequate supervision budget has been allocated, and the WAGP
experience has been documented and widely disseminated within the Bank for lessons
learned. The Project features prominently in the country portfolio, and both client and
Bank Regional Management pay special attention to the progress on this Project.

Environmental & Social Advisory Panel

11.     The Bank team has greatly benefited from the independent advice provided by the
ESAP over the past three years. Their advice goes beyond the MAP and includes
emerging environmental and social issues related to implementation not foreseen in June
2008 when the MAP was submitted to the Board. On social safeguards, the ESAP has
supported the actions on the sustainability of CDPs, focused livelihood programs,
appropriate program for vulnerable groups, and training and monitoring of CDPs. On
environmental measures, the ESAP has emphasized the importance of close interaction
with environmental agencies, continued shoreline monitoring, solid waste management at
Tema (Ghana), monitoring of beach erosion, installation of range markers to show the
pipeline location in near-shore areas, monitoring of the Right of Way (ROW), monitoring
of erosion caused by storm run-off water at one shore installation, and enforcement of a
no-anchor zone along the pipeline. The West African Gas Pipeline Company (WAPCo)
has been addressing all the identified issues on an ongoing basis.

Outstanding Issues, Way Forward and Conclusion

12.     Almost all actions under the MAP have now been completed, with some social
mitigation and other activities that are ongoing (e.g., livelihood restoration; addressing
the needs of vulnerable groups; consultations on the grievance redress system;
monitoring and evaluation, in particular of the resettlement/compensation process; and
supervision). Effective livelihood restoration and CDPs are in place and operating, but by
nature will be ongoing through the life of the Project. This entails continuing discussion
and consultation by WAPCo staff with the affected communities, in keeping with the
training imparted by the World Bank Group in the past four years. For the Bank, the
Project Guarantee closes in January 2028. The Project will continue to operate several
years after the closing of the Guarantee, as these types of assets are long-term.2

13.     While gas is currently being provided to the customers, the full Project benefits
will be realized only if supplies from Nigeria can be assured at the contracted volume of
133 mmcf/d. This is expected by May 2012 when the domestic gas infrastructure in
Nigeria is likely to be augmented. WAGP infrastructure could be utilized to transport
volumes up to 170 mmcf/d, if Nigeria could make additional gas available for export. The



2
 The Bank's involvement in this project is through an IDA Partial Risk Guarantee (and MIGA guarantee),
and no investment is involved. The Guarantee Agreement is effective but the Guarantee has not yet been
called.

                                                  iii
                                                      West African Gas Pipeline Project


Bank is facilitating discussions on the development of a gas market, and is co-hosting a
high-level sub-regional Forum in March 2012.

14.      Since the Project has become fully operational and the vast majority of the
activities in the MAP are completed, Management proposes to report on the
implementation of the remaining Action Plan items upon their completion by the end of
CY 2013. Management will continue to oversee the ongoing implementation of
outstanding social mitigation measures by WAPCo as per regular, diligent Project
supervision in the course of Project supervision over the next eighteen months, until the
CDPs for the third year are completed, by June 2013.




                                           iv
                            West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) Project

            Progress Report on the Implementation of Management Action Plan

                                           I. Project Description

1.      The Project. The West African Gas Pipeline Project (WAGP or the Project)
consists of: (i) a 678 kilometer onshore and offshore that transports gas from Nigeria to
Benin, Togo and Ghana; (ii) lateral spurs from the main pipeline that move gas to power
generating units in Benin, Togo and Ghana; (iii) conversion of existing power generating
units to gas (financed by their owners); and (iv) as needed, additional investments in
compression. This infrastructure, together with the additional compression, is designed to
meet the expected market potential of 450 million cubic feet per day (Mmcf/d). The main
trunk of the 20-inch diameter offshore pipeline was laid on the seabed, between 26 and
70 meters below the ocean surface, and at an approximate distance of 15 to 20 kilometers
from the shore. The gas is transferred through the lateral spurs, and the terminal of the
pipeline is at the Takoradi Power Station in Ghana. The total area of land used for the
Project is approximately 200 hectares, 70 percent of which lies in Nigeria. There are over
3,000 households within the Right of Way (ROW).

2.      In terms of regional development, the Project notably decreases input costs and
diversifies fuel supply for the power sector, and this in turn is expected to expand
investments in local industries and enterprises in the four participating countries. The use
of a cheaper and more environmentally friendly energy source is expected to provide cost
savings to users, and develop the economy through competitiveness and regional trade.
Physical work on the Project commenced in early 2005.

3.      The Project is one of the Bank’s major efforts to support a public-private
partnership involving multiple countries (Nigeria, Benin, Togo, and Ghana) with limited
risk coverage. It combines an International Development Association (IDA) Partial Risk
Guarantee (PRG) of US$50 million with respect to gas purchases of Ghana’s Volta River
Authority (VRA); a Guarantee from the Multilateral Investment and Guarantee Agency
(MIGA) of US$75 million; and commercial insurance to back the credit risk of the VRA.
The Project was approved by the Bank’s Board on November 23, 2004.3 As part of the
Project’s risk mitigation strategy, the IDA PRG insures a portion of the VRA obligations
to the West African Gas Pipeline Company (WAPCo) under the Takoradi Gas Sales
Agreement (TGSA) in the event of a failure by the VRA to pay the Nigerian gas
purchaser, N-Gas Limited, and subsequent termination by N-Gas of the TGSA. However,
the IDA PRG does not cover breach of other obligations undertaken by VRA or the
Government of Ghana under the Project agreements.

4.     Current Status of the Project and Gas Supplies While the Project encountered
construction delays, and the original Project completion date of June 2009 was missed,

3
    Its total estimated cost at the time was US$ 590 million.

                                                        1
                                                       West African Gas Pipeline Project


free-flow gas was supplied to the VRA in Ghana on a “best-endeavor? basis starting in
early 2010. All outstanding construction was completed by March 2011. Compressed gas
has been supplied both to VRA at Tema and Takoradi, and to the Communauté
Electrique du Benin (CEB) at Lomé, and delivered at an average volume of 90 million
cubic feet per day (mmcf/d) during the last several months, compared to the 133 mmcf/d
envisioned in the gas purchase agreements. The take-or-pay commercial framework was
made effective as of November 1, 2011, and the contracting parties have agreed on
ramped-up gas supplies, starting from at least 65 mmcf/d in November 2011 and reaching
the target level of 133 mmcf/d by May 2012.

                              II. Inspection Panel Process

5.      On April 27, 2006, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection on the
Project. The Request was submitted by the Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum of the
WAGP Project through their representatives from Olorunda Local Government Area of
Lagos State, Nigeria. Additionally, the Panel received a letter from Friends of the Earth
Ghana (FoE-Ghana), expressing their support for the Request and asking to be included
among the Requesters. The Host Communities Forum and FoE-Ghana represented local
people living in Nigeria and Ghana, and were recognized as the Requesters.

6.     Claims of the Requesters. The Requesters from Nigeria’s Delta Region were
mainly concerned with the Project’s impact on gas flaring reduction and with the safety
of an existing pipeline to which WAGP was to be linked. The Requesters and affected
communities living near the gas pipeline in Nigeria complained mainly about the low
compensation rates received for their land. Those living in southwestern Nigeria, where
the pipeline goes under the sea, claimed that the construction process would hurt their
fishing enterprise. The Requesters from Ghana were concerned about inadequate
consultation regarding the Project’s economic viability, the pipeline’s safety, and its
impacts on coastal fisheries.

7.      Management Response. In its Response of June 2006, Management stated that
the Bank made significant efforts to apply its policies and procedures but recognized that
further work was needed to supervise the Project and ensure compliance with the Bank’s
Policies and proposed various actions in this regard.

8.      In its Report to the Board on July 7, 2006, the Panel refrained from
recommending an investigation. The Panel stated that it expected to be able to make a
determination by end 2006 and noted that this would also allow Management more time
to demonstrate that it was taking “adequate steps to follow the Bank’s policies and
procedures? as required by the Resolution that established the Panel. The Board
approved the Panel recommendation on July 27, 2006, on a non-objection basis. In its
final Report and Recommendation, dated March 1, 2007, the Panel recommended an
investigation to the Board of Executive Directors, which was approved on March 13,
2007.

9.     Panel Report and Management Response. On April 25, 2008, the Inspection
Panel submitted its Investigation Report No. 42644-GH on WAGP Project to the Board


                                            2
                                                                 West African Gas Pipeline Project


of Executive Directors. On June 30, 2008, Bank Management submitted its Report along
with a detailed Management Action Plan (MAP), in response to the Inspection Panel’s
Investigation Report. The MAP acknowledged implementation challenges in four key
areas: (a) Social Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures, (b) Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Measures, (c) Project Implementation and Supervision, and
(d) Systemic issues.

10.     On August 5, 2008, the Executive Directors discussed the above reports and
approved the MAP proposed by Management. The Board also asked that Management
report on progress in implementing this action plan every six months. The first Progress
Report, covering the period August 2008 – January 2009 was submitted in February
2009, and the second, covering the period February 2009 – August 2009, was submitted
in October 2009. The Board subsequently agreed to reporting on a yearly basis. The third
Progress Report covered the period up to January 2011 and was submitted to the Board in
March 2011. All these reports are available online.4

11.    This fourth progress report covering January-December 2011 is being submitted
in March 2012.

                      III. Implementation of Management Action Plan

12.     The MAP, approved by the Board on August 5, 2008, is divided into sections
referring to social safeguards compliance; environment safeguards compliance; Project
implementation and supervision; and systemic issues. This section describes the specific
actions undertaken and the status of implementation (Table -1).

                   Table 1: Implementation of Management Action Plan

                        ACTION                                                  STATUS
                           Social Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures
1.        WAPCo to undertake consultations and               Completed. The consultation and sensitization
sensitization of communities on the method for livelihood    of communities was completed prior to start of
restoration compensation; and community development          additional cash compensation in September
programs (15 completed by June 2008; consultations with      2008, and continues on a regular basis with the
affected communities to be an ongoing process). The field-   assistance of WAPCo's field staff. Bank
based social specialist has observed some of the             supervision, which included monthly visits to the
consultations. Management will undertake monthly             Project site until February 2009, is currently
follow-up, starting in July 2008 until completion of the     being undertaken in semi-annual missions. A
compensation process.                                        visit by the Inspection Panel (in 2008) to the
                                                             Project sites and interaction with the PAPs
                                                             validated the effectiveness of the above process.




4

http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/EXTINSPECTIONPANEL/0,,contentMDK:22513059~p
agePK:64129751~piPK:64128378~theSitePK:380794,00.html


                                                   3
                                                                    West African Gas Pipeline Project


                         ACTION                                                    STATUS
2.        WAPCo prepared a program on livelihood               Completed. WAPCo conducted a satisfactory
restoration, including the methodology for additional          payment process in Nigeria for additional
compensation for livelihood restoration for Project            compensation; over 90 percent are now fully
Affected Persons (PAPs) using four zones; verification of      compensated, with some litigation cases
PAPs and intra- and inter-household access and claims          remaining. The payment process was observed
completed in May 2008; payments to be distributed to           by the Bank team as well as an independent
PAPs by October 2008. Management will carefully                Witness nongovernmental organization (NGO)
monitor this program, including through monthly field          and monthly field visits were undertaken to
visits and the supervision mission (in Dec 2008).              receive feedback from the PAPs. Additional
                                                               compensation payment in Benin has also been
                                                               completed.
3.        An update of the socio-economic survey to be         Completed. The socio-economic survey in
completed by December 2008; with a follow-up survey            Nigeria, where the vast majority of PAPs are
update in 2010 (at the end of Resettlement Action Plan         located, was used to develop the profile of
(RAP) monitoring period to assess income and livelihood        eligible claimants; it also included a section on
impacts). The Bank will review survey methodology and          vulnerable groups as originally defined in the
results, which will be validated by an independent             Community Development Projects (CDP), and
consultant.                                                    WAPCo is currently updating its database and its
                                                               work programs on vulnerable populations. Due
                                                               to the smaller number of PAPs in Benin, Togo
                                                               and Ghana WAPCo conducted and completed
                                                               Needs Assessments to complete the socio-
                                                               economic (baseline) database of Project affected
                                                               households. WAPCo also monitored the status of
                                                               the CDP activities in Nigeria. These assessments
                                                               will inform the benefit sharing interventions.

4.      WAPCo hired International Institute of Tropical        Completed. This activity was completed prior to
Agriculture (IITA) Agricultural Economist who has              start of actual payment, and consultants from
submitted a report on adjusted crop and tree prices, which     IITA provided inputs to the valuation of crops
has been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.            and trees (in September 2008).
5.        WAPCo to undertake compensation of crops and         Completed. The adjusted crop and tree
trees (based on updated market rates), adjusted for            compensation and land valuation was calculated
inflation to 2008 prices, and applying 4 differentiated land   based on IITA/FAO and market prices; the
use zones and the most current IITA/Food and Agriculture       process of actual payments was completed in
Organization (FAO) agricultural prices in Nigeria, by          September 2008. Management reviewed the
October 2008. Management will review the prices before         prices before the compensation payments were
compensation payments are made.                                made.
6.        WAPCo to intensify CDP implementation                Ongoing. WAPCo has provided livelihood
strategy, focusing on livelihood restoration; skills           interventions to fisherfolk in Nigeria and women
development; and activities targeted for vulnerable groups.    fish sellers in Ghana; CDP projects focusing on
(August 2008). The CDP will be further modified, based         social infrastructure for Years 1 and 2 are largely
on the findings of the updated socio-economic surveys in       completed and are being audited. Year 3 sub-
2008 and 2010. Management will carefully monitor the           projects focused on livelihood and income
CDP implementation strategy, through ongoing field visits      generating activities, ensuring the functionality
and the December 2008 supervision mission.                     and sustainability of the different CDPs, and
                                                               renegotiating Memoranda of Understanding
                                                               (MOUs) with communities and Local
                                                               Government partners, are currently underway.




                                                     4
                                                                  West African Gas Pipeline Project


                         ACTION                                                   STATUS
7.        WAPCo to document modifications to CDP              Ongoing. A more robust program for vulnerable
activities to specifically address needs of vulnerable        groups is being developed as part of the overall
groups                                                        livelihood restoration program.CRR staff is
                                                              being trained in this regard.
                                                              Needs Assessment of vulnerable groups was
                                                              undertaken through the socio-economic survey;
                                                              The targeting for vulnerable groups was done in
                                                              the priority-setting for beneficiaries of the
                                                              livelihood restoration programs, which was
                                                              decided by communities; It was ensured that the
                                                              vulnerable people were given preference during
                                                              compensation payment process (facilitation in
                                                              arriving at the payment place; no standing in the
                                                              queue; delivery of documentation at the seat;
                                                              etc); Market women in Ghana, and women fish
                                                              sellers in Nigeria, were provided financial
                                                              assistance to enable them to improve their
                                                              livelihood; A Community Center has been built
                                                              in Ghana that is also used as prenatal and
                                                              postnatal clinic by ALL community members.


8.        WAPCo to ensure full disclosure of livelihood       Completed. Full disclosure of additional
restoration compensation (underlying reasons,                 compensation was done prior to the start of
methodology, calculations, payment process, grievance         additional payment in September 2008. The
handling) during community sensitization meetings             Witness NGO oversaw the payment process, and
(Ongoing, fifteen community meetings held in May and          its report is publicly available. WAPCo has also
June 2008). Management will monitor progress in               agreed to the public disclosure of the Bank’s
disclosing relevant information on compensation.              WAGP Aide Memoire (in keeping with the
                                                              Bank’s Access to Information policy).
9.        WAPCo to continue to discuss with communities       Ongoing. An appropriate monitoring and
the results of RAP Audit (conducted in 2007) and submit       evaluation system was set up by WAPCo using a
RAP monitoring and consultation updates as part of its        common template. Data entry from the template
monthly progress report (as provided in the Project’s         is saved in an electronic database, and
monitoring and evaluation plan) to the Bank.                  summarized in monthly reports. Feedback from
                                                              the Community Relation Representatives
                                                              (CRRs) is also recorded as part of monitoring
                                                              and evaluation, which is being strengthened
                                                              through community feedback.
10.     WAPCo to hire an independent monitor (witness         Completed. The Witness NGO – Nigeria
NGO) by early July 2008 to document and witness the           Network of NGOs (NNNGO) observed and
payment process for livelihood restoration additional         documented the compensation process and found
compensation.                                                 it satisfactory and transparent.
11.       WAPCo to ensure that the grievance mechanism        Completed. The grievance mechanism has been
includes information on accessible procedures for third       functional with complaints resolved within an
party settlement of disputes arising from compensation        agreed time period for dispute resolution. During
and other aspects of the RAP, and improved                    2011, WAPCo registered 7 complaints in
documentation of dispute resolution (nature of disputes,      Nigeria, and 5 of these were resolved within a
parties involved, duration/timing) (July 2008). The Bank      period of 14 days. The remaining two grievances
field visit in August 2008 will assess the effectiveness of   require additional information and are being dealt
the grievance mechanism.                                      with.




                                                      5
                                                                West African Gas Pipeline Project


                        ACTION                                                  STATUS
12.      WAPCo to engage in participatory consultations     Ongoing. WAPCo has continually consulted the
with affected communities on the grievance mechanism        communities on the effectiveness of the
and revise the procedures, as appropriate, based on         grievance redress mechanism. To date, there
feedback                                                    have been no complaints on the mechanism
                                                            which is working effectively.
13.      WAPCo is ensuring that its social safeguards       Completed. WAPCo social safeguards staff
personnel are being adequately trained in RAP monitoring,   completed the second phase of MIGA-supported
as well as in the monitoring and evaluation of safeguards   training in June 2009. A post-training report was
compliance and of the community development program.        submitted by the trainer and is available through
At the same time, WAPCo is increasing its social            the Bank and WAPCo. Adequate social
safeguards staff through the recruitment of 2 staff in      safeguards staff exists in all four countries
Nigeria and one staff member in Ghana in June 2008. One     (CRRs). The Bank organized training on
staff each in Benin and Togo are also being trained to      livelihood restoration in Accra in November
handle the social safeguards issues. Management will        2011.
assess, on an ongoing basis, the safeguards capacity in
WAPCo and other partners (e.g., local groups, witness
NGO).
14.      WAPCo safeguards staff to participate in the       Completed. WAPCo sent two senior staff to
International Finance Corporation (IFC) capacity building   participate in the IFC capacity building program
program organized by IFC.                                   in April 2008. In addition, WAPCo has also
                                                            participated in training conducted by MIGA
                                                            (2008 and 2009) and World Bank (2009 and
                                                            2011).
15.     WAPCo to utilize an institution-building            Completed. MIGA training was done in two
program/grant from MIGA by September 2008.                  phases. There was an analysis of the institutional
                                                            arrangements for monitoring and evaluation in
                                                            August 2008. This was followed by a training
                                                            workshop for livelihood restoration in June
                                                            2009. WAPCo has assigned dedicated staff on
                                                            social safeguards and CDPs, to ensure that the
                                                            CDPs are sustainable institutionally.
                          Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Measures
16.      Management to ensure that the Environment and
Social Advisory Panel (ESAP) is retained up to July 2009,   Completed. The ESAP’s final visit was made in
to encompass remaining construction period and initial      August 2011.
operations.
                                                            Completed/Ongoing. As the Project has only
17.      WAPCo to translate the Executive Summary of
                                                            recently entered the operations phase, the
the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for
                                                            summary of the EMP for operations has just
operations into Yoruba and disseminate it among the
                                                            been completed. It will be translated into Yoruba
communities by August 2008. Management will monitor
                                                            and French and disseminated to local
the dissemination of the EMPs during its monthly field
                                                            communities in Nigeria, Benin, Togo, and
visits.
                                                            Ghana.
18.     Management to endeavor to obtain annual data
from Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) and
                                                            Completed. Status is the same as last year. Data
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) by
                                                            on volumes of associated and non-associated gas
December 2008, on the respective volumes of associated
                                                            was obtained from DPR in the past.
and non-associated gas to WAGP through the Escravos-
Lagos Pipeline System.




                                                   6
                                                                  West African Gas Pipeline Project


                          ACTION                                                 STATUS
19.     WAPCo to conduct Emergency Response Plan
(ERP) awareness meetings with stakeholders and                Completed. WAPCo has conducted the agreed
communities near WAGP facilities, prior to first gas (To      awareness meetings.
be completed in June 2008).
20.      WAPCo to produce a safety brochure, translate it
                                                              Completed. WAPCo produced the safety
into local languages, and widely disseminate it (July
                                                              brochure, translated and disseminated it.
2008).
21.       Additional public awareness meetings to be held
in the future, and printed information on relevant aspects Completed. WAPCo has continued its awareness
of the ERPs to be distributed (Ongoing). Management will program. The ESAP found that public awareness
monitor the ERP awareness activities through regular field was satisfactory in the communities it visited.
visits.
                                   Project Supervision and Management
                                 Mission Duration, Frequency, and Expertise
                                                              Completed/Ongoing. Two supervision missions
22.       Management to ensure a minimum of two Bank
                                                              per year have been taking place since 2007;
supervision missions of 10-14 days’ duration during the
                                                              technical, financial, environmental, and social
remaining construction period of the Project, with more
                                                              specialists have participated in the missions;
frequent/continuous formal and informal supervision. In
                                                              monthly field visits continued until February
addition to technical, financial, and economic specialists,
                                                              2009; three ESAP missions have taken place
Bank supervision missions to include environmental and
                                                              since 2007; and regular updates on the Project
social safeguards specialists (by December 2008 for the
                                                              are provided to Africa Region (AFR)
first mission; by April 2009 for the second mission).
                                                              Management.
23.      Management input and coordination with the
Country Office in monitoring the Project to be                Completed. A Project supervision strategy was
strengthened with periodic reviews of Project                 approved by Management in August 2008; task
Implementation (ongoing).Management to allocate               management was transferred to the field as of
adequate budgetary resources for the supervision effort –     2008; the supervision budget has been increased
about 3 times the normal supervision budget (FY08 and         to two times the normal budget.
FY09)
      Supervision of Public Private Partnerships, Actions on Early Warning Signs – Resources for
                         Supervision, Handling of Complex Regional Projects
                                                              Completed/Ongoing. A Bank-wide seminar and
24.       Management to document, based on WAGP
                                                              meeting with Bank staff and Inspection Panel
experience, the lessons learned on supervision of public
                                                              members was organized in Washington DC in
private partnerships, and to bring this to the attention of
                                                              June 2009; and WAGP experiences and lessons
project teams handling similar complex projects.
                                                              learned have been shared at other forums.
                                                              Completed/Ongoing. Africa Region
                                                              environmental and social issues analyzed
25.       Management to undertake in the future a more
                                                              through country portfolio reviews; special
comprehensive evaluation of the sector environmental and
                                                              review of regional projects has been initiated;
social issues for projects involving new
                                                              lessons of WAGP have been incorporated in the
borrowers/sponsors in a complex sector with many
                                                              Nigeria Electricity & Gas Improvement Project,
actors/participants.
                                                              Ghana Oil & Gas Technical Assistance, and
                                                              other operations.




                                                       7
                                                                 West African Gas Pipeline Project


                        ACTION                                                   STATUS
                                                             Completed/Ongoing. Africa Region energy,
                                                             environment, and social websites completed; the
26.       Management is developing “best practice? tool
                                                             Region has started compiling documentation of
kits to assist task teams in the Africa Region to navigate
                                                             best practice cases in energy sector and regional
process challenges and to better achieve high standards of
                                                             projects; good practice workshop on lessons
implementation monitoring in complex regional programs
                                                             learned in WAGP took place in June 2009;
(to be completed by the end of FY09).
                                                             Africa Region safeguards training (mobile
                                                             clinics) completed in FY08 and FY09.



                      VI. Detailed Description of MAP Implementation

Social Safeguards

13.    Additional Compensation. The work has been completed as follows: (i) all
payments have been made in Nigeria except in two communities (Ajido and Emeke)
where there are outstanding court cases; (ii) WAPCo has paid seven out of the 12 land
owners in Benin, and has been able to identify four out of the remaining five households
for payments; and (iii) in Togo, there is a claim submitted by a vegetable farmer for loss
of some crop, which is being investigated by WAPCo regarding eligibility for payment.
The compensation amounts are secured in a separate account and would be disbursed to
the claimants as and when litigation is resolved, or the necessary formalities are
completed.

14.     Socio-economic Baseline Survey and Needs Assessment. The follow-up socio-
economic survey in Nigeria, where the vast majority of PAPs is located, was completed
in May 2010 and was used to develop profile of project affected people. This follow-up
survey updated the baseline information that was originally collected in 2006, and
included households covered in the additional compensation process in 2008. Due to the
smaller number of PAPs located in Benin, Togo and Ghana, Needs Assessments were
carried out in 2010 by WAPCo to complete the socio-economic (baseline) database of
Project affected households and revalidate community needs assessment of 2006.
WAPCo also conducted assets inventories of the CDPs to determine the functionality of
the CDPs; and the information collected will also be part of the baseline data for the
ICR. The World Bank also agreed with WAPCo that the livelihood restoration strategies
of these communities will be based on these studies, paying special attention to the
vulnerable groups.

15.      Community Development Projects. The implementation of the CDPs is ongoing.
The First and Second Year CDP projects were comprised of building school blocks,
health clinics, markets and other community infrastructure. Upon completion, these
facilities were envisaged to be handed over to community-based management, to be
owned and operated by the local government or communities themselves. The Bank
team visited a range of CDPs and observed that some are now running effectively. On the
other hand, the health clinics in Benin, Togo and Nigeria continue to have no medical




                                                    8
                                                                  West African Gas Pipeline Project


equipment (which is being rectified), and the markets in Ghana, Togo and Benin await
commissioning. The current status of CDPs in the participating countries is as follows:

            Table 2: Status of Community Development Projects in 2011

                                 Completed             Work in    Yet to be
                                  Projects             Progress   awarded     Total
              Nigeria                3                    3           5        11
              Benin                 10                    2           1        13
              Togo                   3                    1           0         4
              Ghana                  2                    0           3         5
              Total                 18                    6           9        33
               Source: WAPCo Corporate Affairs Dept.


16.     CDP Sustainability. Since sustainability will be determined by community
ownership and continued Government participation in the implementation of the CDPs,
WAPCo has been advised to hand over each CDP using a signed partnership agreement
with communities and the relevant Government Ministry. It is in the process of doing so;
a draft project transfer agreement has been prepared for each completed CDP and is
awaiting stakeholder signature. The agreement specifies the role and responsibilities of
the Government, community and WAPCo for provision and maintenance of
infrastructure, provision of supplies, hiring of staff, and meeting of recurrent costs.
WAPCo has recognized that it cannot replace the role of the Government in managing
the facilities if they are to be sustainable. In parallel, communities have been trained to
be active participants in the operation of the infrastructure. WAPCo has already
discussed the draft agreement with the communities and relevant Government
authorities in Togo, Benin and Nigeria, including clarification on the roles and
responsibilities of each party for CDP maintenance, management and sustainable
operation.
17.     Community Procurement Process. Communities have expressed concerns about
instances in which locally available goods and services have not been procured by
WAPCo in the construction of CDPs. WAPCo explained that it uses a competitive
process in procuring goods and services of acceptable quality, and if the local suppliers
or contractors meet the standards, they are included in the competition. WAPCo has
been advised to explain to the community its corporate procurement process in general
and to make more effort to clarify its procurement and purchasing requirements,
particularly when local contractors could be used. This should also include an
explanation on local and external hiring processes and practices. To avoid delays in
project implementation, WAPCo will facilitate community procurement processes for
small civil works and goods to ensure timely deliveries of goods and completion of all
projects as specified, while maximizing efficiency and economy in the procurement
process, which enhance social accountability. WAPCo has initiated the process of
explaining its procurement processes to the communities.
18.    Livelihood Restoration Activities. While progress has been made on mapping
out needs of the communities, the livelihood activities are still ongoing and their
impacts on affected households are being measured (e.g., outcomes from the baseline in


                                                        9
                                                                 West African Gas Pipeline Project


2004 and the survey update in 2007-08). Some livelihood enhancements are ongoing,
although their implementation was delayed. Funds have been made available for
promoting income earning activities, skill acquisition, scholarship schemes, vocational
training, and micro credit schemes. WAPCo has little previous experience in
implementing livelihood restoration programs. Therefore, the Bank team has facilitated
training of WAPCo staff on the implementation of such programs and is undertaking
close oversight of progress on the ground. The communities have a clear preference for
livelihood restoration activities that are based on the results of need assessments recently
completed by WAPCo, which is developing these activities on the basis of the feedback
provided in the needs assessments (see also box 7, page 4). The communities would also
like to have MOUs between the Government, communities and WAPCo that spell out
the roles and responsibilities of each party for these activities.
19.     Dissemination of Information and Awareness Raising. WAPCo organized
several information sessions through its CRRs, which have contributed to awareness
raising in the areas of pipeline safety, disaster preparedness, emergency response
planning, and grievance management. In this regard, four types of activities were
undertaken. Through an awareness and management campaign, 28 communities have
been sensitized on ROW encroachment, and eight encroachers in Togo, 16 in Benin, two
in Ghana and 50 in Nigeria were found and persuaded to move. For offshore and
onshore pipeline security, information and education were provided on WAPCo’s
Disaster Preparedness Plan (DPP) and Emergency Response Plan (ERP) to eight
communities in Nigeria, 13 in Benin, two in Togo and one in Ghana. Fifteen town hall
meetings were held to address community concerns, and there has been continuous
sharing of information on grievance management procedures and CDP updates. Six
traditional authorities have been invited to tour WAPCo facilities in Nigeria and Ghana.
20.     Grievance Mechanism. The grievance resolution process is ongoing. WAPCo
continues to manage its complaint, redress and dispute resolution procedures by
expanding the use of alternative means of mediation beyond lodging of complaints with
WAPCo’s external/community affairs staff. Alternative means of mediation include
intervention by local chiefs and use of traditional courts for dispute resolution. The
grievance redress process is satisfactory and continues to be part of WAPCo’s normal
business practice. Table 3 provides an overview of grievances received and resolved in
2011. There are two pending cases which required additional documentation and
verification, and contacts with the complainants. Hence, those could not be redressed
within the 14 days, but are being dealt with.


                    Table 3: Grievances Received and Resolved in 2011
       Country                                 # of Grievances      Resolved      Pending
       Ghana                                          1                1             0
       Togo                                           2                2             0
       Benin                                          1                0             1
       Nigeria                                        3                2             1
       Total                                          7                5             2
       Source: WAPCo Corporate Affairs Dept.




                                                     10
                                                        West African Gas Pipeline Project


21.     Monitoring and Evaluation System. There is an ongoing monitoring and
evaluation system, which applies a template for assessing the quality of community
infrastructure, as measured in terms of usage, the degree to which the service meets local
needs, and the people’s perception of the service. Results are then compiled in a
centralized database. Observations in the field revealed the need not only to measure the
effectiveness of the various CDPs but to engage primary stakeholders in monitoring of
community development initiatives as well as taking timely corrective actions to
improve performance and outcomes. The Bank team has recommended improving the
monitoring and evaluation process to include clear indicators for both CDPs and
livelihood programs and involving the PAPs in defining the monitoring and evaluation
issues, collecting and analyzing data, and taking result-oriented action. WAPCo is
incorporating this advice in refining the monitoring and evaluation system.
22.      Way Forward. WAPCo is committed to a participatory community development
approach. The following actions, in particular, will be enhanced during the next 6 to 12
months. First, WAPCo’s audit of CDP infrastructure sub-projects, initiation of repairs,
and operating and maintenance arrangements with service providers will be expanded
and strengthened. This includes a review of how effectively activities have been carried
out by responsible parties under the agreed MOUs. Second, WAPCo will initiate the
outstanding livelihood restoration programs and focus on skills training. Third, WAPCo
will pay special attention to the needs of vulnerable groups and tailor some programs
accordingly. Fourth, WAPCo will coordinate with local government agencies in the
critical areas of security and protection of facilities and segments of the pipeline.
Environmental Safeguards

23.     All actions under the MAP have been completed. The EMP for the construction-
phase was translated in local languages, and the EMP for operations is being similarly
translated. Some activities are by their nature ongoing, like safety training, and are being
continued throughout the life of the Project.

24.     Workplace Safety. Workplace safety continues to be excellentat all locations
(Itoki, Badagry, Cotonou, Lomé, Tema and Takoradi). There are no Health, Environment
& Safety (HES) issues in need of review at this time and the waste management regime is
exemplary. No significant environmental problems were observed, corroborating the
monitoring report by WAPCo. The company reports 1,987,776 man-hours worked from
April 10, 2010 to August 1, 2011 without a lost-time incident.

25.    Community Safety. Several rounds of community safety awareness training have
already been conducted. The VRA continues to conduct joint safety training with
WAPCo at Takoradi and Tema and has, in addition, conducted training for its staff and
contractors on WAPCo’s ERP. The ESAP found the level of safety awareness in
communities to be satisfactory.

26.    Offshore Pipeline Security. Pipeline security arrangements have progressed
well, with port authorities and navies engaged in all countries in patrolling the route and
enforcing the no-anchor zones. The partnership between the Benin Navy and WAPCo is
now functional. The Automatic Identification System-Vessel Traffic Management


                                            11
                                                                    West African Gas Pipeline Project


System (AIS-VTMS) for monitoring and enforcing the no anchor zone of the marine
pipeline was observed, and it is functioning somewhat better than previously but there are
both hardware and software aspects which should be improved to ensure its effectiveness.
Under the aegis of another project, the Government of Benin has banned salt production
and wood harvesting along the coastline and in the wetlands, which the WAPCo Project
stands to benefit from. WAPCo is currently working with the Maritime Authority and
navy of Ghana with a view to replicating the enforcement of the no-anchor zone
(exclusion zone), which is in effect at Cotonou.

27.     Environmental Monitoring. WAPCo has strengthened its environmental
monitoring and is bringing emerging issues to the attention of the authorities in the four
countries in a timely manner. It recently alerted the authorities on the dangers of sand
mining (also known as “sand winning?) in the Barrier Island in Badagry, Nigeria,
coastline erosion in Gbetsogbe, Togo, and erosion caused by run-off of water adjacent to
the pipeline in Tema, Ghana.

28.      The beach at Takoradi, Ghana appears to have stabilized, even though some sand
mining activities were being conducted on the beach. The phenomenon of erosion in
Tema along the pipeline ROW onto the shore landing has been observed and WAPCo has
been advised to take immediate stabilization and management measures to avoid the
exposure of the pipeline. The Bank team has observed that rubble from construction
activities has been deposited by the local government along the Gbetsogbe section of the
coastline, but the severe beach erosion has not abated in Togo.5 In a meeting with the
Minister of Environment, the Bank team was informed that coastal erosion is occurring
throughout the Togolese coastline from Lomé as far as the border with Benin. The
Government of Togo, with the support of West African Economic and Monetary Union
(UEMOA), is implementing a sea defense program that includes planned installation of
72 wave breakers. Nine have been installed in Aneho (at the border with Benin) with
encouraging results. The Government of Togo has also promulgated a law banning
coastline mining.

29.     The shore landing and lagoon crossing of the Benin lateral spur have been
monitored, and the ROW is properly delineated and has recovered/regenerated well. In
order to ensure the safety of the pipeline, the Agence Beninoise pour l'Environnement
(ABE) will not issue permits for sand mining near the ROW of the pipeline. Excavation
by sand miners at Paako Beach, Badagry was observed in June 2011 to be approaching
the fringe of the pipeline ROW. WAPCo organized a stakeholders’ workshop on this
issue at the end of June 2011, inviting community representatives as well as Federal
Ministry of Environment (FMEnv) and concerned Lagos State agencies. The results were
greater awareness of the risk of sand mining near the pipeline, agreement that finding
alternative means of livelihood was a better approach than enforcement action, and
recognition of the need for engagement of responsible Government agencies. The Navy
has stationed personnel at the site to prevent encroachment on the ROW, and sand mining
has stopped.


5
    This erosion is not caused by WAGP, but is as a result of developments at the Lomé port.


                                                      12
                                                      West African Gas Pipeline Project


30.     Implementation of Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP). The
recently-concluded Bank supervision mission observed no significant environmental
problems at any of the locations along the pipeline, and the environmental agencies from
all four countries pronounced themselves satisfied with WAPCo’s performance in
implementing environmental and social management plans. Beach erosion has stopped at
Takoradi as a result of the partial berm removal, and there has been additional accretion
in the previously eroding area immediately down-current from the pipeline shore
crossing. The GEPA informed the mission that it no longer considers erosion caused by
the structures related to the pipeline to be a matter of concern.

31.     Reporting. Some of the environmental agencies in the four countries have
reported less satisfactory communications from WAPCo. Ghana Environmental
Protection Agency (GEPA) was generally satisfied with WAPCo’s environmental
compliance, and it appreciated the quarterly monitoring reports it had received but
requested that WAPCo be more consistent in submitting the same. The Ministry of
Environment and Forestry in Togo did not report any problems with receipt of
monitoring reports. ABE stressed the need for more regularity in the submission of
quarterly monitoring reports. FMEnv (Nigeria) complimented WAPCo for its use of an
independent environmental consultant for ESMP implementation monitoring. The
Ministry of Environment, Lagos State has not been receiving the quarterly reports, and
WAPCo is correcting the situation. WAPCo has agreed to provide multiple copies of its
reports to various officials in the environment agencies, and also keep track of who has
received these reports, and when.

32.     Environmental Management in the Transition from Construction to Operation.
This transition has been smooth; the recent supervision mission did not observe lapses in
safety practices or environmental management at any location. The ESAP was impressed
with the competence and knowledge of the operating staff at all locations.

33.     Way Forward. The progress in ESMP implementation, environmental
monitoring, collaboration with regulatory agencies, reporting and information
management has been substantial since December 2008. There are no significant
shortcomings requiring attention at present; however, Management has suggested that
WAPCo consider the following: (i) ABE, GEPA, FMEnv and Lagos State Ministry of
Environment report that they are not receiving quarterly monitoring reports consistently,
and it is urgent that WAPCo investigate non-receipt of the monitoring reports and take
any remedial actions; and (ii) environmental monitoring and compliance enforcement
agencies of the four countries should be brought together in a training workshop on
implementation of the operations phase ESMP, and real-time monitoring of
environmental and social impacts, the ERPs, and monitoring of the gas pipeline Project.

Supervision (Africa Region and Project)

34.     Management in the Africa Region has continued to ensure strong oversight of the
Project, and received and reviewed periodic progress reports. The Country Directors in
Nigeria and Ghana, and Country Managers in Benin and Togo, have closely monitored
progress on the Project. The Bank team has been predominantly located in the field but


                                           13
                                                                        West African Gas Pipeline Project


    has received advice and guidance from the Sector Manager, Sector Director and the
    Regional Vice President. Following is the progress:

        (a) Bank supervision missions. Two full-fledged Bank supervision missions per year,
            comprised of professionals from headquarters and the field, have been taking
            place since 2007. The missions have reviewed physical progress, and compliance
            with the environmental and social safeguards by WAPCo. Particular attention has
            been paid to the review of progress on the implementation of actions under the
            agreed MAP.
        (b) Supplemental field visits. The Bank team undertook occasional field visits, as the
            situation warranted, and participated in the stakeholders meeting held in June
            2011 to discuss the sand mining issues at the Barrier Island, Badagry.
        (c) ESAP mission. The third ESAP mission took place in August 2011 and provided
            independent advice on safety, and environmental and social mitigation.

                           VI. Findings of Environmental & Social Advisory Panel

    35.     Independent Review of Social Mitigation Measures. Aside from actions
    identified under the MAP, the ESAP undertook a visit to the Project in August 2011 to
    review progress, and identified a number of additional actions which could further
    strengthen the social compliance of WAGP (see Table 4).

      Table 4: Social Actions identified by the Environmental and Social Advisory Panel

       ESAP Recommendation                     Status as of August 2011              Status as of December 2011

The ESAP supports WAPCo’s                  WAPCo has completed 18 CDPs,           Steps are being taken to accelerate
determination to complete fully all        6 are in different stages of           delivery of social infrastructure
projects in hand and to rehabilitate       completion, and another 9 are yet      under the CDPs in a sustainable
where essential. WAPCo needs to make       to be awarded.                         manner. WAPCo is placing special
the effort necessary to address                                                   emphasis on providing training and
fundamental problems of project                                                   has conducted CDD training for its
sustainability, and position itself for                                           community development staff to
better project planning and construction                                          better plan and oversee the
in the future.                                                                    construction of sustainable CDPs in
                                                                                  future, and by engaging community-
                                                                                  based management of facilities
                                                                                  through joint MOUs.

The ESAP believes WAPCo would              WAPCo is reviewing the                 WAPCo has begun training on
provide a useful service by re-visiting    sustainability of all of its           livelihood programs. In fact, a two-
each borehole with determination to re-    completed CDPs, including              day training program on livelihood
launch the failed systems, supports a      boreholes. Since sustainability will   restoration for its community
shift of emphasis from bricks and          be determined by community             development staff was conducted by
mortar to livelihood projects, but         ownership and Government               WAPCo on Oct 31-Nov 1, 2011,
recommends: (a) WAPCo staff get            participation in the implementation    which was facilitated by the Bank
training in planning a livelihoods         of the CDPs, a draft project           Team. In the future, WAPCo
program; (b) the livelihoods program be    transfer agreement document has        intends to undertake relatively
designed to provide a limited set of       been completed and is awaiting         simple livelihood program training
projects for livelihood improvement        stakeholders signature. WAPCo          sessions to be implemented in the
widely in demand, be administratively      has presented the draft agreement      coming months. Upon request, the


                                                         14
                                                                          West African Gas Pipeline Project

       ESAP Recommendation                      Status as of August 2011              Status as of December 2011

simple to operate and clearly beneficial;   to communities and relevant            Bank has provided to WAPCo
and (c) WAPCo identify, in each             Government authorities in Togo,        community procurement
country, successful ongoing livelihood      Benin and Nigeria, with role and       materials/resources for its use.
programs that might be attracted by         responsibilities of each party spelt
additional funds to operate in WAPCo        out for CDP maintenance and
affected communities.                       management.

WAPCo should push out the time frame        Work on the incomplete CDPs is         WAPCo intends to stay engaged
in which to accomplish its near and         continuing, and WAPCo is               with the communities in the coming
medium-term community development           expediting the early completion of     years, but the engagement would be
objectives by an additional 2-3 years,      planned CDPs. It is also reviewing     in accordance with the agreed
and the ESAP recommends that: (a)           the status of some non-functioning     MOUs. The MOUs contain
WAPCo, through its External Relations       CDPs to find sustainable solutions.    references to institutional
Unit, complete all 'promised' Projects      It is providing the necessary          coordination and sustainable
with all components necessary for good      training to its External Relations     financing for operating the CDP
service; (b) review closely all non-        staff in effectively implementing      social infrastructure, like schools
functioning and deteriorating projects;     CDPs.                                  and market centers (in partnership
(c) plan and implement fixes to                                                    with communities and
lengthen the project life of each; (d)                                             governments).
consider more bricks and mortar
projects if on balance they are the best
investment in a given community; and
(e) seek training for External Relations
staff in planning community projects
and maximizing use of local/external
contractors, labor and materials.

WAPCo should plan and implement an                                                 Year 3 projects have been inter alia
adequate vulnerables’ management                                                   designed focusing on livelihood and
program for any substantial extension                                              income generating activities, with
of the pipeline over land; and the                                                 vulnerable groups given priority
poorest of the poor households should                                              attention in the selection of
get special attention in the proposed                                              beneficiaries.
livelihoods program.

WAPCo should continue to monitor                                                   WAPCo completed a follow up
output and impact of the community                                                 socio-economic survey and
development program through                                                        conducted need assessments in the
qualitative monitoring by means of                                                 participating countries; and has
focus groups, by checking separately                                               developed a structured periodic
with groups of men and women on                                                    community and project monitoring
priorities for development investment.                                             plan as part of its corporate social
                                                                                   responsibility and to better monitor
                                                                                   status of the CDPs. The Bank’s
                                                                                   team also conducts two public
                                                                                   consultations yearly during
                                                                                   missions, with PAPs to verify
                                                                                   WAPCo’s report.

WAPCo External Relations field staff                                               This is being planned by WAPCo
should get trained in monitoring with                                              for 2012, and WAPCo External
focus groups and the field staff should                                            Relations field staff would receive
take on qualitative monitoring tasks in a                                          training on monitoring and



                                                           15
                                                                         West African Gas Pipeline Project

       ESAP Recommendation                      Status as of August 2011              Status as of December 2011

systematic fashion, using agreed                                                   evaluation.
indicators and issues to be addressed.

WAPCo should monitor for evidence of        Sand winning activity in Adjido is     WAPCo continues to monitor sand
job loss in sand winning in Adjido.         being continually monitored along      winning in Adjido.
                                            with law enforcement agencies.




     36.    Independent Review of Environmental Mitigation Measures. While all actions
     under the MAP have been completed, the ESAP has identified a number of measures
     which could further strengthen the Project’s environmental compliance. WAPCo has
     taken due note of these actions and is undertaking measures to address them (see Table
     5).

     Table 5: Environment Actions identified by Environmental & Social Advisory Panel

     ESAP Recommendation                      Status as of August 2011               Status as of December 2011

WAPCo needs to follow up with the        The beach appears to have               GEPA has already communicated to
Ghana Environmental Protection           stabilized. There were sand mining      WAPCo and the Bank that it is
Agency (GEPA) to ensure that the         activities being conducted on the       satisfied that beach erosion is “no
Takoradi shoreline monitoring            beach, and GEPA and other               longer an issue?. WAPCo has to
program and results are satisfactory     authorities need to ensure that         continue monitoring sand winning,
and that no further action is            mining is not conducted near the        and to report any problems to GEPA.
required. It should continue to          pipeline and does not cause erosion
monitor sand winning on the beach        that could expose the pipeline.
in the vicinity of the ROW and           GEPA was generally satisfied with
collaborate with the GEPA Western        WAPCo’s environmental
Region to ensure that there is           compliance, and appreciates the
adequate enforcement of the laws         quarterly monitoring reports.
which prohibit sand winning.

WAPCo needs to follow up with            WAPCo has made contacts with            WAPCo to continue to monitor sand
GEPA to ensure that the Tema             GEPA, and has sought its support in     winning and to report any problems to
shoreline monitoring program and         ensuring the shoreline monitoring       GEPA. WAPCo to continue its work
results are satisfactory and that no     program, sand winning, and              with the authorities to mark the
further action is required. It should    management of solid waste.              location of the pipeline.
also continue to monitor sand
winning on the beach in the vicinity
of the ROW and collaborate with
the GEPA-Tema District Office to
ensure that there is adequate
enforcement of the laws which
prohibit sand winning.

WAPCo should also work with the
GEPA or the Ghana solid waste
management authorities to prevent
the dumping of solid waste (trash)
on the beach in the vicinity of the
ROW. It should consider removing


                                                          16
                                                                        West African Gas Pipeline Project

     ESAP Recommendation                     Status as of August 2011               Status as of December 2011

the steel buoys marking the pipeline
seaward of the berm and install
"Range Markers" at Tema for
locating the pipeline.

The severe erosion problem at           The Government of Togo, with the        WAPCo to continue to monitor the
Gbetsogbe (Togo) and potential          support of the West African             situation at the Gbetsogbe (Togo)
long-term threat to the pipeline must   Economic and Monetary Union             beach.
be closely monitored by WAPCo,          (UEMOA), is implementing a sea
and it needs to continue to monitor     defense program that includes
sand winning on the beach in the        planned installation of 72 wave
vicinity of the ROW.                    breakers. Nine have been installed
                                        in Aneho (at the border with Benin)
                                        with encouraging results. The
                                        Government of Togo has
                                        promulgated a law banning
                                        coastline mining.

                                        It is important to point out that the
                                        beach erosion in Togo is not caused
                                        by WAGP, but is due to Port
                                        development activities. The Bank
                                        is not in any way involved with
                                        supplemental environmental studies,
                                        or the installation of wave breakers,
                                        nor are they part of the Management
                                        Action Plan.

WAPCo should consider installing                                                WAPCo to install range markers and
“Range Markers? which would                                                     monitor sand winning.
assist the fisherman in locating the
pipeline in Benin. WAPCo needs to
continue to monitor sand winning on
the beach in the vicinity of the ROW

WAPCo should continue to monitor                                                WAPCo to continue monitoring.
the large excavated area in the
Barrier Island in Badagry (Nigeria)
to the west of the ROW for any new
sand mining activity which could
encroach on the ROW, and monitor
the Barrier Island to the east of the
ROW for possible new sand mining
activities.

The reliability of both hardware and    The partnership between the Benin       WAPCo to continue working with the
manning of the Vessel Traffic           Navy and WAPCo is functional.           Navy and Port Authority on exclusion
Management System (VTMS)                The Automatic Identification            zone enforcement.
facility in Cotonou should be           System (AIS) for monitoring and
improved. WAPCo needs to be             enforcing the no anchor zone of the
proactive in Ghana and Togo, as         marine pipeline is functioning
well as in Benin, in improving the      somewhat better than previously,
VTMS technology, manning, and           but there are both hardware and



                                                          17
                                                                        West African Gas Pipeline Project

     ESAP Recommendation                     Status as of August 2011               Status as of December 2011

procedures to prevent anchoring and     software aspects which should be
similar incursions in the offshore      improved to ensure its effectiveness.
exclusion zones. WAPCo should           The Government of Benin has
install VTMS repeaters in the           banned salt production and wood
WAPCo Accra Control Center and          harvesting along the coastline and in
develop procedures for operators to     the wetlands.
assist in monitoring ship traffic.

At Tema, WAPCo should                   The phenomenon of erosion along         WAPCo to complete the stabilization
implement a permanent solution to       the pipeline ROW onto the shore         measures and monitor results.
the erosion caused by run-off of        landing has been observed, and
water adjacent to the pipeline on the   immediate stabilization and
slope between the Station and the       management measures have been
Beach.                                  recommended.

xWAPCo operations should institute                                              WAPCo to include emphasis on road
a methodology for examining any                                                 crossings in its routine ROW
informal road crossings, which                                                  inspections and work with local
provides assurance that the pipeline                                            authorities where loads are excessive.
is not subject to excessive loads
resulting from the use of such
roadways. Remediation should be
based on the findings of this
approach.

Hazards of the pipeline running                                                 WAPCo to take the ESAP’s
through communities should not be                                               observations into account in its
overstressed to those communities                                               awareness programs.
in view of the minimal risk they
cause.




                                 V. Outstanding Issues and Way Forward

     37.     Effectiveness of Commercial Contracts. The supply of gas from Nigeria, upon
     completion of the WAGP Project, is under the commercial framework which became
     effective from November 1, 2011. However, the gas supply is expected to be ramped up
     to the target volume of 133 mmcf/d by May 1, 2012. The adequacy of domestic gas
     infrastructure in Nigeria, which delivers gas to WAGP at the tie-in point, is key to the
     realization of the full benefit of the Project. Management plans to take up this issue with
     the Nigerian Petroleum Minister to assure gas supplies for WAGP in accordance with the
     commercial framework.

     38.      Additional Gas Supplies and Stakeholders Forum. The power utilities and
     independent power producers in Benin, Togo and Ghana are expecting gas in excess of
     the foundation volume (133 mmcf/d) to meet their increased fuel needs. In order to
     facilitate increased supplies, commercial, financial, technical and contractual
     arrangements need to be put in place. WAPCo requested support from the Bank in this



                                                          18
                                                        West African Gas Pipeline Project


regard, and a West African Stakeholders Engagement Forum is being jointly organized in
March 2012 to discuss the relevant issues.

39.     Social Mitigation Measures. WAPCo is committed to a participatory community
development approach and measures to ensure the sustainability of CDPs, initiate
livelihood restoration programs and focus on skills training. It will pay special attention
to the needs of vulnerable groups, and enhance coordination with local government
agencies. The Bank team will continue to work closely with WAPCo to ensure complete
implementation of the social mitigation measures under MAP.

40.    Environmental Management. The progress in implementing the environmental
measures has been substantial. There are certain shortcomings relating to reporting to the
environmental agencies which are being corrected. The officials of these agencies have
requested training on real-time monitoring of environmental and social impacts and the
ERPs, and this is being planned by WAPCo.

Conclusion

41.     The Project has become fully operational and the vast majority of the activities in
MAP are completed. Management expects to be able to provide the final progress report
to the Board by the end of CY 2013 upon completion of all outstanding Action Plan
items. Management intends to continue to oversee the ongoing implementation of social
mitigation measures by WAPCo in a diligent manner in the course of Project supervision
over the next eighteen months, till the CDPs for the third year are completed by June
2013. The IDA Guarantee closes in January 2028.




                                            19
