                                                   89164
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




             5TH PROGRESS REPORT TO THE
         BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE
     IMPLEMENTATION OF MANAGEMENT’S ACTION PLAN

IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
                   NO. 42644-GH ON THE

      WEST AFRICAN GAS PIPELINE (WAGP) PROJECT
           (IDA GUARANTEE NO. B-0060-GH)




                       MAY 2014
5th Progress Report


                      Abbreviations and Acronyms

        AIS                 Automatic Identification System
        CDP                 Community Development Projects
        CEB                 Communauté Electrique du Benin
        CRR                 Community Relation Representatives
        DPR                 Department of Petroleum Resources (Nigeria)
        EMP                 Environmental Management Plan
        ERP                 Emergency Response Plan
        ESAP                Environment and Social Advisory Panel
        FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organization
        FoE-Ghana           Friends of the Earth Ghana
        GEPA                Ghana Environmental Protection Agency
        ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
        IDA                 International Development Association
        IFC                 International Finance Corporation
        IITA                International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
        MAP                 Management Action Plan
        MIGA                Multilateral Investment and Guarantee Agency
        mmcf/d              Million Cubic Feet per Day
        MOU                 Memorandum of Understanding
        NGO                 Nongovernment Organization
        PAP                 Project Affected Persons
        PPZ                 Pipeline Protection Zone
        PRG                 Partial Risk Guarantee
        R&M                 Regulation and Metering
        RAP                 Resettlement Action Plan
        ROW                 Right of Way
        TGSA                Takoradi Gas Sales Agreement
        VRA                 Volta River Authority
        VTMS                Vessel Traffic Management System
        WAGP                West African Gas Pipeline Project
        WAGPA               West African Gas Pipeline Authority (Regulator)
        WAPCo               West African Gas Pipeline Company




                                  ii
                                                                  West African Gas Pipeline Project


                                            5th Progress Report

                                   West African Gas Pipeline Project

                                            Executive Summary

Background

1.     The West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) Project consists of a 678 kilometer
onshore and offshore pipeline that transports gas from Nigeria to Benin, Togo, and
Ghana, providing gas to power generating units. Under WAGP, risk mitigation is
provided through an International Development Association (IDA) Partial Risk
Guarantee (PRG) of US$50 million, with respect to gas purchases of Ghana’s Volta River
Authority (VRA), a Guarantee from the Multilateral Investment and Guarantee Agency
(MIGA) of US$75 million, and commercial insurance to back the credit risk of VRA. The
Project was approved by the Board on November 23, 2004,1 and the physical work
commenced in early 2005. The availability and use of a cheaper and more
environmentally-friendly energy source is envisaged to provide cost savings to users, and
develop the economy through competitiveness and regional trade. The project has been
implemented by The West African Gas Pipeline Company (WAPCo).

2.       On April 27, 2006, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection from
Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum of the WAGP (Nigeria) and Friends of the Earth
Ghana (FoE-Ghana). The main complaints related to the Bank’s non-compliance with its
own safeguard policies and procedures, low compensation rates for the land taken,
damage to land and livelihoods, gas flaring reduction in the Niger Delta, the safety of an
associated pipeline, impact of construction activity on fishing, and inadequate
consultation on coastal fisheries in Ghana. The Panel submitted its report on April 25,
2008. The Management Response to the Panel Report explained how the Bank had made
significant efforts to apply its policies and procedures but recognized that further work
was needed to strengthen the supervision of the Project and in particular to ensure
compliance with Bank policies.

3.    The Board approved a detailed Management Action Plan (MAP) on August 5,
2008, which sought to address inadequacies in four key areas: (a) Social Impact
Assessment and Mitigation Measures; (b) Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Measures; (c) Project Implementation and Supervision; and (d) Systemic issues.

4.      The Board asked Management to report on progress in implementing the MAP
every six months. The first Progress Report, covering the period August 2008–January
2009 was submitted in February 2009, and the second, covering the period February
2009–August 2009 was submitted in October 2009. The Board subsequently agreed to
reporting on a yearly basis. The third and fourth Progress Reports covering the period up
to December 2010 and December 2011 were submitted to the Board in March 2011 and
March 2012, respectively.

1
    Its total estimated cost at the time was US$ 590 million.


                                                        iii
5th Progress Report


5.     This is the fifth and last progress report covering January 2012–April 2014. It is
being submitted in June 2014, at the same time that the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) of the project is being finalized. The implementation of the Management
Action Plan has been completed.

Current Status of the Project and Gas Supplies

6.     While the Project encountered construction delays, and the original Project
completion date was not realized, free-flow gas was supplied to the VRA in Ghana on a
“best-endeavor” basis starting in early 2010. Subsequently, remaining construction
works, including the Lagos Beach Compressor Station, were completed by March 2011
and compressed gas was supplied both to VRA at Tema and Takoradi, and to the
Communauté Electrique du Benin (CEB) at Lomé and Cotonou. The delivery volume
reached a peak of 143.5 million cubic feet per day (mmcf/d), but the average volume
mmcf/d delivered till August 2012 was 90 mmcf/d (compared to the contracted volume
of 133 mmcf/d).

7.     There was a major breach of WAGP in August 2012, due to illegal anchoring by a
ship near Lomé. The incident resulted in the total shutdown of the pipeline, and stopped
all supplies to VRA and CEB until July 2013. There were two fatalities at Takoradi
(Ghana) at the time of re-commissioning of the pipeline in November 2012, resulting in a
thorough review of the safety protocols by WAPCo. The pipeline was subsequently re-
commissioned in July 2013, and an average of 80 mmcf/d has been supplied to VRA and
CEB since then, but large variability in deliveries is being experienced on account of gas
availability from Nigeria.

Implementation of Management Action Plan

8.     Social Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures. The following activities
outlined in the MAP have been completed: (a) consultations and sensitization of
communities; (b) implementation of a new round of compensation for crops and trees
based on fair market value and adjusted prices; (c) updates of the socio-economic survey
of Project affected persons; (d) assignment of a Project staff for targeted vulnerable
groups during the compensation period; (e) provision of the livelihood restoration
program; (f) full disclosure of compensation process; (g) engagement of an independent
monitor to witness the payment process; (h) establishment of an adequate grievance
mechanism that incorporates the use of alternative and Project level dispute resolution
methods; and (i) training of safeguards staff, including staff participation in the capacity
building training programs sponsored by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and
MIGA.

9.     Implementation of Community Development Projects (CDP) for Phases 1 and 2
has been completed, and largely handed over to the local authorities and community
organizations. Livelihood schemes were initiated under Phase 3 of the CDPs, and
academic scholarships and vocational training have been provided with special emphasis
on the needs of vulnerable groups. Consultation and periodic discussion with




                                            iv
                                                                       West African Gas Pipeline Project


communities in the implementation and monitoring of the Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) is continuing.

10.     Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Measures. All environment-related
actions contained in the MAP have been completed. WAPCo continues to organize
environmental awareness and emergency response engagements for the communities
along the Right of Way (ROW). The independent Environment and Social Advisory
Panel (ESAP) undertook its last field visit in August 2011, and made several
recommendations to further strengthen the environmental and social monitoring of the
Project.

11.     Project Implementation and Supervision. Intensive Project supervision has been
ensured during the past six years, and at least two missions a year were undertaken during
the construction phase until mid-year 2011. Multi-disciplinary teams including technical,
financial, economic, environmental and social safeguards specialists have been
constituted with adequate field presence.

12.    Systemic Issues. Adequate supervision budget has been allocated, and the WAGP
experience has been documented and widely disseminated within the Bank for lessons
learned. The Project features prominently in the country portfolio, and both client and
Bank Regional Management pay special attention to the progress on this Project.

Environmental & Social Advisory Panel

13.     The third and last ESAP mission took place in August 2011, after the construction
phase was completed. Its advice went beyond the MAP and included recommendations
on issues that WAPCo could potentially face during the operational phase. The ESAP
identified actions that can further augment the environmental and social management of
this important infrastructure. WAPCo has been addressing all the identified and emerging
issues on an ongoing basis.

Way Forward and Conclusion

14.     All actions under the MAP have now been completed, the project is in the
operational phase, and there are no outstanding issues. WAPCo continues to engage with
the communities through the awareness programs, and is interacting with the Government
and regulatory institutions as expected in normal operations. For the Bank, the Project
Guarantee closes in January 2028. The Project will continue to operate several years after
the closing of the Guarantee, as these types of assets are long-term.2

15.     While gas is currently being provided to the customers, the full Project benefits
will be realized only if supplies from Nigeria can be assured at the contracted volume of
133 mmcf/d. WAGP infrastructure could be utilized to transport volumes up to 170


2
 The Bank's involvement in this project is through an IDA Partial Risk Guarantee (and MIGA guarantee),
and no investment is involved. The Guarantee Agreement is effective, and the Guarantee has not yet been
called.


                                                   v
5th Progress Report


mmcf/d, if Nigeria could make additional gas available for export. The Bank is
facilitating discussions on the development of a gas market in the West African sub-
region through its energy teams in Nigeria, Benin, Togo and Ghana.

16.    Since the Project has become fully operational and all the activities in the MAP
are completed, Management proposes that this report be considered final. The Board is
also informed that an ICR for the project is being completed two years after the
commercial operation date (COD) was reached (as is the norm for Guarantee operations).

17.    The Bank will continue supervision of the project as long as the Guarantee
remains in force as per OP/BP14.25. Close contact with WAPCo would be maintained to
remain abreast with community needs and concerns, and with any evolving safety,
environmental, or social development issues. The energy team in Nigeria, Benin, Togo
and Ghana will continue to monitor the development of the gas sector in their respective
countries on an ongoing basis.




                                           vi
                            West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) Project

            Progress Report on the Implementation of Management Action Plan

                                           I. Project Description

1.      The Project. The West African Gas Pipeline Project (WAGP or the Project)
consists of: (a) a 678 kilometer onshore and offshore that transports gas from Nigeria to
Benin, Togo and Ghana; (b) lateral spurs from the main pipeline that move gas to power
generating units in Benin, Togo and Ghana; (c) conversion of existing power generating
units to gas (financed by their owners); and (d) as needed, additional investments in
compression. This infrastructure, together with the additional compression, is designed to
meet the expected market potential of 450 million cubic feet per day (mmcf/d). The main
trunk of the 20-inch diameter offshore pipeline was laid on the seabed, between 26 and
70 meters below the ocean surface, and at an approximate distance of 15 to 20 kilometers
from the shore. The gas is transferred through the lateral spurs, and the terminal of the
pipeline is at the Takoradi Power Station in Ghana. The total area of land used for the
Project is approximately 200 hectares, 70 percent of which lies in Nigeria. There are over
3,000 households within the Right of Way (ROW).

2.      In terms of regional development, the Project notably decreases input costs and
diversifies fuel supply for the power sector, and this in turn creates the potential to
expand investments in local industries and enterprises in the four participating countries.
The use of a cheaper and more environmentally friendly energy source is expected to
provide cost savings to users, and develop the economy through competitiveness and
regional trade. Physical work on the Project commenced in early 2005.

3.     The Project is one of the Bank’s major efforts to support a public-private
partnership involving multiple countries (Nigeria, Benin, Togo, and Ghana) with limited
risk coverage. It combines an International Development Association (IDA) Partial Risk
Guarantee (PRG) of US$50 million with respect to gas purchases of Ghana’s Volta River
Authority (VRA); a Guarantee from the Multilateral Investment and Guarantee Agency
(MIGA) of US$75 million; and commercial insurance to back the credit risk of the VRA.
The Project was approved by the Bank’s Board on November 23, 2004.3 As part of the
Project’s risk mitigation strategy, the IDA PRG insures a portion of the VRA obligations
to the West African Gas Pipeline Company (WAPCo) under the Takoradi Gas Sales
Agreement (TGSA) in the event of a failure by the VRA to pay the Nigerian gas
purchaser, N-Gas Limited, and subsequent termination by N-Gas of the TGSA. However,
the IDA PRG does not cover breach of other obligations undertaken by VRA or the
Government of Ghana under the Project agreements.

4. Current Status of the Project and Gas Supplies. While the Project encountered
construction delays, and the original Project completion date was not realized, free-flow
gas was supplied to the VRA in Ghana on a “best-endeavor” basis starting in early 2010.


3
    Its total estimated cost at the time was US$ 590 million.
5th Progress Report


Initial delivery volume was between 40 and 60 million cubic feet per day (mmcf/d), and
was consumed by VRA plants in Takoradi. All outstanding construction was completed
by March 2011, including the critical Lagos Beach Compressor. Compressed gas has
been supplied both to VRA at Tema and Takoradi, and to the Communauté Electrique du
Benin (CEB) at Lomé and Cotonou since March 2011. The delivery volume reached a
peak of 143.5 mmcf/d, but the average volume delivered was 90 mmcf/d (compared to
the contracted volume of 133 mmcf/d) till August 2012. A serious pipeline breach
occurred in August 2012 due to the illegal anchoring of a ship in Lomé, which resulted in
the total shutdown of gas supplies to Benin, Togo and Ghana. The pipeline was to be re-
commissioned in November 2012 after the necessary repairs, but an unfortunate incident
at Takoradi resulted in two fatalities at the time of the re-commissioning process. This
prompted a thorough review of the safety protocols by WAPCo on the entire pipeline
system, resulting in a further delay in the start of the gas supply operations. The pipeline
was subsequently re-commissioned in July 2013, and an average of 80 mmcf/d has been
supplied to VRA and CEB during the past several months, even though large variability
in deliveries is being experienced on account of gas availability from Nigeria (see Figure
1).

                                             Figure-1




                              II. Inspection Panel process

5.      On April 27, 2006, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection on the
Project. The Request was submitted by the Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum of the
WAGP Project through their representatives from Olorunda Local Government Area of
Lagos State, Nigeria. Additionally, the Panel received a letter from Friends of the Earth
Ghana (FoE-Ghana), expressing their support for the Request and asking to be included
among the Requesters. The Host Communities Forum and FoE-Ghana represented local
people living in Nigeria and Ghana, and were recognized as the Requesters.

6.     Claims of the Requesters. The Requesters from Nigeria’s Delta Region were
mainly concerned with the Project’s impact on gas flaring reduction and with the safety
of an existing pipeline to which WAGP was to be linked. The Requesters and affected
communities living near the gas pipeline in Nigeria complained mainly about the low
compensation rates received for their land. Those living in southwestern Nigeria, where
the pipeline goes under the sea, claimed that the construction process would hurt their


                                             2
                                                              West African Gas Pipeline Project


fishing enterprise. The Requesters from Ghana were concerned about inadequate
consultation regarding the Project’s economic viability, the pipeline’s safety, and its
impacts on coastal fisheries.

7.      Management Response. In its Response of June 2006, Management stated that
the Bank made significant efforts to apply its policies and procedures but recognized that
further work was needed to supervise the Project and ensure compliance with the Bank’s
Policies and proposed various actions in this regard.

8.      In its Report to the Board on July 7, 2006, the Panel refrained from
recommending an investigation. The Panel stated that it expected to be able to make a
determination by end 2006 and noted that this would also allow Management more time
to demonstrate that it was taking “adequate steps to follow the Bank’s policies and
procedures” as required by the Resolution that established the Panel. The Board
approved the Panel recommendation on July 27, 2006, on a non-objection basis. In its
final Report and Recommendation, dated March 1, 2007, the Panel recommended an
investigation to the Board of Executive Directors, which was approved on March 13,
2007.

9.      Panel Report and Management Response. On April 25, 2008, the Inspection
Panel submitted its Investigation Report No. 42644-GH on WAGP Project to the Board
of Executive Directors. On June 30, 2008, Bank Management submitted its Report along
with a detailed Management Action Plan (MAP), in response to the Inspection Panel’s
Investigation Report. The MAP acknowledged implementation challenges in four key
areas: (a) Social Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures, (b) Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Measures, (c) Project Implementation and Supervision, and
(d) Systemic issues.

10.     On August 5, 2008, the Executive Directors discussed the above reports and
approved the MAP proposed by Management. The Board also asked that Management
report on progress in implementing this action plan every six months. The first Progress
Report, covering the period August 2008 – January 2009 was submitted in February
2009, and the second, covering the period February 2009 – August 2009, was submitted
in October 2009. The Board subsequently agreed to reporting on a yearly basis. The third
and fourth Progress Reports covered the periods up to December 2010 and December
2011 and were submitted to the Board in March 2011 and March 2012, respectively. All
these reports are available online.4

11. This is the fifth and last progress report covering January 2012–April 2014. It is being
submitted in June 2014, in conjunction with the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) of the project, which is now due, two years after the start of the commercial
operations of WAGP. The implementation of the Management Action Plan has been
completed.


4

http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/EXTINSPECTIONPANEL/0,,contentMDK:22513059~p
agePK:64129751~piPK:64128378~theSitePK:380794,00.html


                                             3
5th Progress Report


                        III. Implementation of Management Action Plan

12.     The MAP, approved by the Board on August 5, 2008, is divided into sections
referring to social safeguards compliance; environment safeguards compliance; Project
implementation and supervision; and systemic issues. This section describes the specific
actions undertaken and the status of implementation (Table 1).

                      Table 1: Implementation of Management Action Plan

                         ACTION                                                  STATUS
                           Social Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures
1.        WAPCo to undertake consultations and               Completed. The consultation and sensitization
sensitization of communities on the method for livelihood    of communities was completed prior to start of
restoration compensation; and community development          additional cash compensation in September
projects (CDPs) (15 completed by June 2008;                  2008. Bank supervision, which included monthly
consultations with affected communities to be an ongoing     visits to the Project site until February 2009, was
process). The field-based social specialist has observed     undertaken in semi-annual missions till 2011. A
some of the consultations. Management will undertake         visit by the Inspection Panel (in 2008) to the
monthly follow-up, starting in July 2008 until completion    Project sites and interaction with the Project
of the compensation process.                                 Affected Persons (PAPs) validated the
                                                             effectiveness of the above process.
2.        WAPCo to prepare a program on livelihood           Completed. WAPCo conducted a satisfactory
restoration, including the methodology for additional        payment process in Nigeria for additional
compensation for livelihood restoration for PAPs using       compensation; over 90 percent are now fully
four zones; verification of PAPs and intra- and inter-       compensated, with some litigation cases
household access and claims completed in May 2008;           remaining. The payment process was observed
payments to be distributed to PAPs by October 2008.          by the Bank team as well as an independent
Management will carefully monitor this program,              Witness nongovernmental organization (NGO)
including through monthly field visits and the supervision   and monthly field visits were undertaken to
mission (in Dec 2008).                                       receive feedback from the PAPs. Additional
                                                             compensation payment in Benin has also been
                                                             completed.
3.       An update of the socio-economic survey to be        Completed. The socio-economic survey in
completed by December 2008; with a follow-up survey          Nigeria, where the vast majority of PAPs are
update in 2010 (at the end of Resettlement Action Plan       located, was used to develop the profile of
(RAP) monitoring period to assess income and livelihood      eligible claimants; it also included a section on
impacts). The Bank will review survey methodology and        vulnerable groups as originally defined in the
results, which will be validated by an independent           CDPs, and WAPCo updated its database and its
consultant.                                                  work programs on vulnerable populations. Due
                                                             to the smaller number of PAPs in Benin, Togo
                                                             and Ghana, WAPCo conducted Needs
                                                             Assessments to complete the socio-economic
                                                             (baseline) database of Project affected
                                                             households. WAPCo also monitored the status of
                                                             the CDP activities in Nigeria. These assessments
                                                             have informed the benefit sharing interventions.
4.      WAPCo to hire International Institute of Tropical    Completed. This activity was completed prior to
Agriculture (IITA) Agricultural Economist who has            start of actual payment, and consultants from
submitted a report on adjusted crop and tree prices, which   IITA provided inputs to the valuation of crops
has been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.          and trees (in September 2008).




                                                   4
                                                                          West African Gas Pipeline Project



                        ACTION                                                    STATUS
5.        WAPCo to undertake compensation of crops and         Completed. The adjusted crop and tree
trees (based on updated market rates), adjusted for            compensation and land valuation was calculated
inflation to 2008 prices, and applying 4 differentiated land   based on IITA/FAO and market prices; the
use zones and the most current IITA/Food and Agriculture       process of actual payments was completed in
Organization (FAO) agricultural prices in Nigeria, by          September 2008. Management reviewed the
October 2008. Management will review the prices before         prices before the compensation payments were
compensation payments are made.                                made.
6.       WAPCo to intensify CDP implementation                 Completed. WAPCo has provided livelihood
strategy, focusing on livelihood restoration; skills           interventions to fisherfolk in Nigeria and women
development; and activities targeted for vulnerable groups.    fish sellers in Ghana; CDP projects focusing on
(August 2008). The CDP will be further modified, based         social infrastructure for Phase 1 and 2 are
on the findings of the updated socio-economic surveys in       completed and are being audited. Phase 3 sub-
2008 and 2010. Management will carefully monitor the           projects focused on livelihood and income
CDP implementation strategy, through ongoing field visits      generating activities, including scholarships and
and the December 2008 supervision mission.                     skills development. The functionality and
                                                               sustainability of the different CDPs has been
                                                               assured through renegotiating and executing the
                                                               Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with
                                                               communities and Local Government partners.
7.        WAPCo to document modifications to CDP Completed. A more robust program for
activities to specifically address needs of vulnerable vulnerable groups was developed as part of the
groups.                                                overall     livelihood    restoration   program.
                                                       Community Relation Representatives (CRR)
                                                       were trained in this regard. A Needs Assessment
                                                       of vulnerable groups was undertaken through the
                                                       socio-economic survey. The targeting for
                                                       vulnerable groups was done during priority-
                                                       setting for beneficiaries of the livelihood
                                                       restoration programs, which was determined by
                                                       communities. Care was taken to ensure that
                                                       vulnerable people were given preference during
                                                       compensation payment process (facilitation in
                                                       arriving at the payment place; no standing in the
                                                       queue; delivery of documentation at the seat;
                                                       etc). Market women in Ghana, and women fish
                                                       sellers in Nigeria, were provided financial
                                                       assistance to enable them to improve their
                                                       livelihood. A Community Center has been built
                                                       in Ghana that is also used as prenatal and
                                                       postnatal clinic by all community members.
8.        WAPCo to ensure full disclosure of livelihood        Completed. Full disclosure of additional
restoration     compensation      (underlying    reasons,      compensation was done prior to the start of
methodology, calculations, payment process, grievance          additional payment in September 2008. The
handling) during community sensitization meetings              Witness NGO oversaw the payment process, and
(Ongoing, fifteen community meetings held in May and           its report is publicly available. WAPCo also
June 2008). Management will monitor progress in                agreed to the public disclosure of the Bank’s
disclosing relevant information on compensation.               WAGP Aide Memoire (in keeping with the
                                                               Bank’s Access to Information policy).




                                                     5
5th Progress Report



                        ACTION                                                   STATUS
9.       WAPCo to continue to discuss with communities        Completed. An appropriate monitoring and
the results of RAP Audit (conducted in 2007) and submit       evaluation system was set up by WAPCo using a
RAP monitoring and consultation updates as part of its        common template. Data entry from the template
monthly progress report (as provided in the Project’s         is saved in an electronic database, and
monitoring and evaluation plan) to the Bank.                  summarized in monthly reports. Feedback from
                                                              the CRRs was also recorded as part of
                                                              monitoring and evaluation, which is being
                                                              strengthened through community feedback.
                                                              Community interaction is continuing as per
                                                              WAPCo corporate social responsibility.
10.    WAPCo to hire an independent monitor (witness          Completed. The Witness NGO – Nigeria
NGO) by early July 2008 to document and witness the           Network of NGOs observed and documented the
payment process for livelihood restoration additional         compensation process and found it satisfactory
compensation.                                                 and transparent.
11.       WAPCo to ensure that the grievance mechanism        Completed. The grievance mechanism has been
includes information on accessible procedures for third       functional with complaints resolved within an
party settlement of disputes arising from compensation        agreed time period for dispute resolution. During
and other aspects of the RAP, and improved                    2011, WAPCo registered 7 complaints in
documentation of dispute resolution (nature of disputes,      Nigeria, and 5 of these were resolved within a
parties involved, duration/timing) (July 2008). The Bank      period of 14 days. The remaining two grievances
field visit in August 2008 will assess the effectiveness of   required additional information and were
the grievance mechanism.                                      appropriately dealt with.
12.     WAPCo to engage in participatory consultations        Completed. WAPCo has continually consulted
with affected communities on the grievance mechanism          the communities on the effectiveness of the
and revise the procedures, as appropriate, based on           grievance redress mechanism. To date, there
feedback                                                      have been no complaints on the mechanism
                                                              which is working effectively. Participatory
                                                              consultation with affected communities is
                                                              continuing as per WAPCo corporate policy.
13.      WAPCo is ensuring that its social safeguards         Completed. WAPCo social safeguards staff
personnel are being adequately trained in RAP monitoring,     completed the second phase of MIGA-supported
as well as in the monitoring and evaluation of safeguards     training in June 2009. A post-training report was
compliance and of the CDPs. At the same time, WAPCo is        submitted by the trainer and is available through
increasing its social safeguards staff through the            the Bank and WAPCo. Adequate social
recruitment of 2 staff in Nigeria and one staff member in     safeguards staff exists in all four countries
Ghana in June 2008. One staff each in Benin and Togo are      (CRRs). The Bank organized training on
also being trained to handle the social safeguards issues.    livelihood restoration in Accra in November
Management will assess, on an ongoing basis, the              2011.
safeguards capacity in WAPCo and other partners (e.g.,
local groups, witness NGO).
14.      WAPCo safeguards staff to participate in the Completed. WAPCo sent two senior staff to
International Finance Corporation (IFC) capacity building participate in the IFC capacity building program
program organized by IFC.                                 in April 2008. In addition, WAPCo also
                                                          participated in training conducted by MIGA
                                                          (2008 and 2009) and World Bank (2009 and
                                                          2011).




                                                    6
                                                                        West African Gas Pipeline Project



                        ACTION                                                 STATUS
15.     WAPCo to utilize an institution-building Completed. MIGA training was done in two
program/grant from MIGA by September 2008.       phases. There was an analysis of the institutional
                                                 arrangements for monitoring and evaluation in
                                                 August 2008. This was followed by a training
                                                 workshop for livelihood restoration in June
                                                 2009. WAPCo has assigned dedicated staff on
                                                 social safeguards and CDPs, to ensure that the
                                                 CDPs are sustainable institutionally.
Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Measures
16.      Management to ensure that the Environment and
                                                          Completed. The ESAP was retained till August
Social Advisory Panel (ESAP) is retained up to July 2009,
                                                          2011, and its final visit took place in the same
to encompass remaining construction period and initial
                                                          month.
operations.
17.      WAPCo to translate the Executive Summary of
the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for                  Completed. The summary of the EMP for
operations into Yoruba and disseminate it among the          operations has been completed, translated, and
communities by August 2008. Management will monitor          disseminated to local communities in Nigeria,
the dissemination of the EMPs during its monthly field       Benin, Togo and Ghana.
visits.
18.      Management to endeavor to obtain annual data
from Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) and             Completed. Data on volume of associated and
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation by December          non-associated gas was obtained from DPR in
2008, on the respective volumes of associated and non-       2009. Some additional data, available in public
associated gas to WAGP through the Escravos-Lagos            domain, has also been compiled.
Pipeline System.
19.     WAPCo to conduct Emergency Response Plan
(ERP) awareness meetings with stakeholders and Completed. WAPCo has conducted the agreed
communities near WAGP facilities, prior to first gas (To awareness meetings.
be completed in June 2008).
20.     WAPCo to produce a safety brochure, translate it
                                                         Completed. WAPCo produced the                safety
into local languages, and widely disseminate it (July
                                                         brochure, translated and disseminated it.
2008).
21.      Additional public awareness meetings to be held     Completed. WAPCo has continued its awareness
in the future, and printed information on relevant aspects   program. The ESAP found that public awareness
of the ERPs to be distributed (Ongoing). Management will     was satisfactory in the communities it visited.
monitor the ERP awareness activities through regular field   Awareness meetings on ERP are organized on an
visits.                                                      ongoing basis by WAPCo.




                                                   7
5th Progress Report



                        ACTION                                                    STATUS
Project Supervision and Management
Mission Duration, Frequency, and Expertise (OP13.05)
                                                              Completed. Two supervision missions per year
                                                              took place during the construction phase, until
22.       Management to ensure a minimum of two Bank          2011; technical, financial, environmental and
supervision missions of 10-14 days’ duration during the       social specialists participated in these missions;
remaining construction period of the Project, with more       monthly field visits continued until February
frequent/continuous formal and informal supervision. In       2009; three ESAP missions took place after
addition to technical, financial, and economic specialists,   2007; and regular updates on the Project were
Bank supervision missions to include environmental and        provided to Africa Region Management. The
social safeguards specialists (by December 2008 for the       Africa Energy unit continues to monitor the
first mission; by April 2009 for the second mission).         operation of WAGP as part of its engagement in
                                                              the energy programs in Nigeria, Benin, Togo and
                                                              Ghana.
23.      Management input and coordination with the
Country Office in monitoring the Project to be                Completed. A Project supervision strategy was
strengthened with periodic reviews of Project                 approved by Management in August 2008; task
Implementation (ongoing).Management to allocate               management was transferred to the field as of
adequate budgetary resources for the supervision effort –     2008; the supervision budget was increased to
about 3 times the normal supervision budget (FY08 and         two times the normal budget.
FY09)
Supervision of Public Private Partnerships, Actions on Early Warning Signs – Resources for
Supervision, Handling of Complex Regional Projects (OP13.05)
                                                              Completed. A Bank-wide seminar and meeting
24.       Management to document, based on WAGP               with Bank staff and Inspection Panel members
experience, the lessons learned on supervision of public      was organized in Washington DC in June 2009;
private partnerships, and to bring this to the attention of   stakeholder forums are being continually
project teams handling similar complex projects.              organized; and WAGP experiences and lessons
                                                              learned have been documented in the ICR.
                                                              Completed. Africa Region environmental and
                                                              social issues are continually analyzed through
                                                              country portfolio reviews; special review of
25.      Management to undertake in the future a more
                                                              regional projects has been initiated; and lessons
comprehensive evaluation of the sector environmental and
                                                              from WAGP have been incorporated in the
social issues for projects involving new borrowers/
                                                              Nigeria Electricity & Gas Improvement Project,
sponsors in a complex sector with many actors/
                                                              Ghana Oil & Gas Technical Assistance, and
participants.
                                                              other operations. Management intends to
                                                              incorporate lessons learnt from WAGP in all its
                                                              future operations, as appropriate.
                                                              Completed. Africa Region energy, environment,
                                                              and social websites have been completed; the
26.      Management is developing “best practice” tool
                                                              Region has started compiling documentation of
kits to assist task teams in the Africa Region to navigate
                                                              best practice cases in energy sector and regional
process challenges and to better achieve high standards of
                                                              projects; good practice workshop on lessons
implementation monitoring in complex regional programs
                                                              learned in WAGP took place in June 2009;
(to be completed by the end of FY09).
                                                              Africa Region safeguards training (mobile
                                                              clinics) completed in FY08 and FY09.




                                                    8
                                                            West African Gas Pipeline Project


                  IV. Detailed Description of MAP Implementation

Social Safeguards

13.     Additional Compensation. The work has been completed as follows: (a) all
payments have been made in Nigeria except in two communities (Adjido and Emeke)
where there are outstanding court cases; and (b) WAPCo has paid all outstanding land
compensation payments in Benin, Togo and Ghana. The compensation amounts for the
two communities in Nigeria are secured in a separate account and would be disbursed to
the claimants as and when litigation is resolved.

14.     Socio-economic Baseline Survey and Needs Assessment. WAPCo, as part of its
commitment to contribute to the development of the host communities in the four
countries, conducted a survey in 2004, to collect and compile basic data towards the
implementation of the CDPs. In all, 54 communities were identified as having been
impacted by the WAGP project. The survey report formed the basis for a community
development Needs Assessment exercise in 2005 which was conducted using
participatory approaches. This approach ensured that all major social groups (e.g.,
traditional leaders, family heads, women, youth, local government officials, NGOs, etc.)
participated in the Needs Assessment work.

15.     Approach to CDP. The CDPs were planned to be implemented in three phases
during 2006–2009. Highly visible infrastructure projects commenced under Phases 1 and
2, while the livelihood support projects were planned for Phase 3. Projects under Phase 1
and 2 were meant to establish the presence of WAPCo in the host communities and to
communicate the commitment, aims and objectives of WAPCo. By the end of 2009,
WAPCo had largely completed Phases 1 and 2 of the CDPs. The implementation of the
livelihood support programs commenced in August 2012 after appropriate capacity-
building and training of the concerned WAPCo staff, and with a selection process that
was preceded by town hall meetings in host communities. These town hall meetings
provided an opportunity to receive community inputs into a draft implementation
framework designed by WAPCo. During these meetings, WAPCo provided insights into
the operations of the livelihood support programs and addressed questions posed by the
members of the community. Livelihood support implementation committees comprising
representatives of community leaders, women, and youth groups were selected to drive
the scheme in line with the agreed implementation framework (described above).

16.     Community Development Projects. The implementation of the CDPs is
completed (Table 2). Phase 1 and 2 CDP projects were comprised of school blocks and
libraries, health clinics, water and sanitation, and markets and other community
infrastructure. The implementation has encountered few challenges and met with a
considerable degree of success. However, in Nigeria, some of the completed CDPs were
not used as the communities continued to demand additional support, while some
projects elsewhere broke down shortly after commissioning with communities looking
to WAPCo for minor repairs – a clear sustainability challenge. Based on the initial
experience, the CDP facilities have now largely been handed over to be owned and
operated by the local government or community organizations.


                                           9
5th Progress Report


  Table 2: Summary of Completed Community Development Projects (as of 2013)
                   Projects                           Nigeria   Benin   Togo   Ghana   Total
   Education (School blocks, Libraries)                  8        6      1       7      22
   Health (Clinics)                                     10        2      2       1      15
   Water and Sanitation                                 15        5      0       5      25
   Others (Market, Community Center)                     0        1      1       2       4
   Total                                                33       14      4      15      66
Source: WAPCo Corporate Affairs Dept., October 2013


17.    CDP Sustainability. In its interaction with the local authorities in the four
countries, WAPCo’s major objective has been to ensure that CDPs that are handed over
upon completion are managed in a sustainable manner for the greater good of the
communities. In Nigeria, two health clinics, six classroom blocks, and four VIP toilets
have been handed over through the signing of a MOU that transferred the ownership to
the Local Councils. On its own, the Ilogbo-Eremi community (Nigeria) built a fence-
wall around the clinic with internally-generated resources. Similarly, a health center
built for the Maria Gleta community (Benin) is currently receiving financial and
operational support from the Ministry of Health. The Ghana Health Service has also
posted two doctors at the Health Clinic built by WAPCo for the Tema community in
2008, and is collaborating with the Ministry of Health to elevate the status of the facility.
The Kpone Traditional Council (Ghana) has re-roofed the damaged portion of the head
teachers’ quarters, built initially by WAPCo, with funds generated by accrued rent.
18.     Notwithstanding the general willingness of local authorities to assume ownership
of transferred CDPs, sustainability challenges still remain, especially in Nigeria. Several
blocks of classrooms built for host communities in Lagos and Ogun State are in dire
need of rehabilitation. The communities and the local government authorities in these
areas have not been forthcoming with their plans to bring the schools to a better state of
repair. WAPCo maintains a willingness to support communities and local governments
to keep donated projects in good condition, but expects the initiative and a greater part
of financial resources for renovations to come from the communities.
19.     Procurement Process. WAPCo has used a competitive process in procuring
goods and services of acceptable quality, and if the local suppliers or contractors meet
the standards, they are included in the competition. WAPCo has been explaining its
procurement practices to the community to avoid any misunderstanding in the event
local suppliers of goods and services are not selected. In order to assure community buy-
in, WAPCo has been actively involved in the activities related to the oversight and
maintenance of the ROW.
20.     Livelihood Restoration Activities. Under Phase 3 of the CDPs, WAPCo
undertook a strategic shift from the traditional “brick and mortar” approach to a more
sustainable investment with longer-term benefit to host communities. The focus of the
livelihood program is two-fold: (a) award academic scholarships to brilliant but needy
students in public schools within host communities to develop their full potential; and
(b) provide opportunity to community youth to pursue vocational training and acquire
skills (e.g., welding, painting, carpentry, hair-dressing, mechanics, electronics, and
plumbing) aimed at making them self-sufficient and self-employed. For the purpose of
livelihood programs, certain communities were grouped together based on physical


                                                          10
                                                                           West African Gas Pipeline Project


proximity and other considerations in Nigeria and Benin, bringing down the number of
target communities from 54 to 39 in the four countries. The number of beneficiaries
anticipated, selected and who received support is given in Table 3.
               Table 3: Number of Beneficiaries of Livelihood Programs (as of 2013)
  Country                                          Programs                                  Amount Spent
                Scholarship Scheme (No.)          Community Youth Enterprise Scheme (No.)      (US $)
                 Planned      Beneficiary          Planned    Selected       Beneficiary
  Benin             40            39                  40         33              22              30,600
  Ghana             35            41                  35         22              12              30,500
  Nigeria          115            75                 115         92              60              62,770
  Togo               5             7                   5          7               0               3,500
  Total            195           162                 195        154              94             127,370
Source: WAPCo Corporate Affairs Dept., October 2013


21.    Dissemination of Information and Awareness Raising. WAPCo organized
several information sessions through its CRRs, which have contributed to awareness
raising in the areas of pipeline safety, disaster preparedness, emergency response
planning, and grievance management. In this regard, four types of activities were
undertaken. Through an awareness and management campaign, pipeline protection and
awareness sessions were held in 3 communities in Nigeria during 2012-2013. The
contractors providing vegetation clearing and surveillance service on the ROW have
been engaged to undertake the community awareness activities as well. In Benin, 6
awareness campaigns have been held in the host communities to sensitize them, and to
discourage all cases of ROW encroachment. Similar engagements were undertaken in
Togo and Ghana during the same period. Thirty-four encroachment cases were also
addressed during 2012-2013.
22.    Grievance Mechanism. In order to strengthen community relations, WAPCo
organized 40 proactive engagements with key stakeholders across the four countries
during 2012-2013. Of these, 20 meetings were held in Nigeria, 8 in Ghana, 12 in Benin
and 2 in Togo. The primary purpose of these meetings was to explain the livelihood
support schemes, understand the community grievances and concerns, and help address
the grievances expeditiously. Community concerns emanating from the pipeline
maintenance and repair work were addressed during these meetings. Some typical
grievances in different countries and the redress provided are presented in Table 4
below.
23.    Monitoring and Evaluation. WAPCo undertakes ongoing monitoring and
evaluation through regular community meetings conducted by the CRRs. These
meetings are used for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the completed
Phase 1 and 2 CDPs, and for soliciting support for the Phase 3 livelihood support
schemes.




                                                        11
5th Progress Report


                    Table 4: Illustrative Grievances and Redress during 2012-2013
  Country and           Issue / Grievance                                 Status
  Complainant
  Nigeria:              The community of Ajibode in January 2011          WAPCo used “Community
  Representatives       requested the removal of wooden planks which      Procurement” to fix the road.
  of Ajibode and        were placed on the main community road by         Completion date April 30, 2013
  Baale                 the Company during construction activities

  Ghana: Chief          Destruction of 2 fishing nets hooked to the       Compensation of GH¢2,010 paid.
  Fisherman of          chain link at the base of a malfunctioning buoy   Closed in August 2012
  Aboadze
  Togo: Crop            Payment of compensation to gardeners for          Payment in March 2013
  Growers               destroyed crops around the Regulating &
  Association           Metering (R&M) Station
Source: WAPCo Corporate Affairs, April 2013


Environmental Safeguards

24.     All actions under the MAP have been completed. The EMP for the construction-
phase was translated in local languages, and the EMP for operations has been similarly
translated. Some activities are by their nature ongoing, like safety training, and are being
continued throughout the life of the Project.

25.     Workplace Safety. Workplace safety continues to be satisfactory at all locations
(Badagry, Cotonou, Itoki, Lomé, Takoradi and Tema). However, there were fatalities
experienced by WAPCo in November 2012 while dewatering and re-commissioning the
pipeline after the breach which occurred near Lomé in August 2012. This serious incident
resulted in a thorough review of the safety protocol by WAPCo, and the pipeline was
finally re-commissioned in July 2013.

26.    Community Safety. Several rounds of community safety awareness training have
already been conducted. The VRA continues to conduct joint safety training with
WAPCo at Takoradi and Tema and has, in addition, conducted training for its staff and
contractors on WAPCo’s ERP.

27.     Damage Prevention Program. The West African Gas Pipeline suffered a
catastrophic loss of containment in early 2007 during the construction phase due,
apparently, to damage by a ship's anchor. As a result of the incident, risk analysis was
undertaken and effort expended on Public Awareness, Marine Risk Mitigation strategies,
and Marine Protection measures, which culminated in the offshore Damage Prevention
Program. Since April 2007, WAPCo and the West African Gas Pipeline Authority
(WAGPA) have been conducting Safety Awareness Publicity across the region to
sensitize the maritime communities on the safety and security precautions for safe gas
transmission. WAPCo’s awareness campaign has been well established in the four main
ports on the pipeline route. All port and naval officials are cognizant of the pipeline and
the need to ensure it is protected from marine damage. The campaign is also a continuous
process intended to cover all coastal communities especially the fisher folks along the
pipeline route. WAPCo has additionally trenched the two branches of pipeline under the
sea bed in Benin and Togo that were recognized as vulnerable pipeline sections.


                                                      12
                                                               West African Gas Pipeline Project


28.     In conjunction with WAGPA Regulations, and as part of the risk mitigation
measures, a one nautical mile Exclusion Zone on either side of the pipeline, known as the
Pipeline Protection Zone (PPZ), has been adopted across the four countries to minimize
the chances of causing damage to the pipeline. This zone and the pipeline are included in
new editions of Admiralty charts, especially Charts Number 1383 and Number 1384,
which all mariners are encouraged to consult when operating along the west coast of
Africa. Special marker buoys equipped with Automatic Identification System (AIS)
transmitters and Maritime Mobile Service Identity numbers are also installed at selected
sections of the pipeline where shipping traffic is relatively heavy, such as close to the
ports of Cotonou, Lomé, Takoradi, Tema, and the Benin/Nigeria frontier.

29.      Activities which constitute potential risk for offshore pipeline damage and which
are strictly forbidden within the PPZ include but are not limited to: (a) anchoring; (b) ship
anchor drag and trawl board impact; (c) bottom trawling; (d) illegal fishing methods such
as use of dynamite; (e) mining including sand winning; (f) construction; and (g) any
activity that risks the chance of making physical contact with the sea bed within the zone
and involves a risk of damaging the pipeline. In line with the offshore pipeline safety
requirements, WAGPA and WAPCo deem it important that the maritime community be
made aware of the inherent dangers to human lives and property as well as to the
pipeline, should there be any violation of the identified safety precautions. Mariners are
particularly advised not to anchor or trawl within the PPZ as gas from a damaged pipeline
could cause an explosion, loss of vessel buoyancy or other serious hazards. It must also
be noted that the main pipeline is not buried and it may reduce charted depths by up to 2
meters, especially at the tees where the valves are encaged. The pipeline has also spanned
seabed undulations and may cause fishing gear to become irrecoverably snagged, putting
a vessel in severe danger.

30.     Offshore Pipeline Security. In Nigeria, WAPCo has held courtesy meetings with
the Governor of Lagos State; it also met with the Director of Petroleum Resources to
provide updates on its operations and seek his understanding and cooperation regarding
the pipeline repair and maintenance work. In Benin, WAPCo engaged the Port Authority
and Navy on a monthly basis to monitor the implementation of offshore surveillance and
monitoring of vessels within the PPZ. WAPCo also initiated a national dialogue in Benin
that culminated in the organization of a workshop including representatives of 14
government agencies to identify mechanisms to protect the offshore sections of the
pipeline. In Togo, WAPCo has called on the Prime Minister and Head of the Navy on
issues related to the security of WAGP. The Ministries of Energy in Benin, Togo and
Ghana have been in regular contact to coordinate their efforts for the safety of the
pipeline, and deliveries of gas to customers.

31.    Pipeline security arrangements have been put in place with port authorities and
navies engaged in all four countries in patrolling the route and enforcing the no-anchor
zones. The AIS-Vessel Traffic Management System (AIS-VTMS) for monitoring and
enforcing the no anchor zone of the marine pipeline is functioning. Notwithstanding all
these efforts, WAGP suffered a breach near Lomé in August 2012 due to the illegal
anchoring of a ship inside the no-anchor zone (exclusion zone). The pipeline was re-



                                             13
5th Progress Report


commissioned in July 2013 after a thorough review of the security protocol over the
entire WAGP system.

32.     As part of the offshore pipeline security fishing groups in Tema (Ghana) were
sensitized on the negative impact of using explosives close to the pipeline. In this regard,
and with support of the Ghana Navy, 8 persons were arrested for using explosives to
break up an abandoned ship that was located close to the Tema lateral.

33.     Environmental Monitoring. WAPCo has strengthened its environmental
monitoring and is bringing emerging issues to the attention of the authorities in the four
countries in a timely manner. It recently alerted the authorities on the dangers of sand
mining (also known as “sand winning”) in the Barrier Island in Badagry, Nigeria,
coastline erosion in Gbetsogbe, Togo, and erosion caused by run-off of water adjacent to
the pipeline in Tema, Ghana.

34.     The shore landing and lagoon crossing of the Benin lateral spur have been
monitored, and the ROW is properly delineated and has recovered/regenerated well. In
order to ensure the safety of the pipeline, the Agence Beninoise pour l’Environnement is
not issuing permits for sand mining near the ROW of the pipeline. Excavation by sand
miners at Paako Beach, Badagry is also being continually monitored and authorities are
kept informed.

35.      Implementation of EMP. The ICR mission observed no significant environmental
problems at any of the locations along the pipeline, and the environmental agencies from
all four countries pronounced themselves satisfied with WAPCo’s performance in
implementing environmental and social management plans. Beach erosion has stopped at
Takoradi as a result of the partial berm removal, and there has been additional accretion
in the previously eroding area immediately down-current from the pipeline shore
crossing. The Ghana Environmental Protection Agency (GEPA) informed the mission
that it no longer considers erosion caused by the structures related to the pipeline to be a
matter of concern.

36.    Reporting. Regulatory authorities in Nigeria, Benin, Togo and Ghana have been
continually engaged to provide regular briefings on WAPCo operations. The Lagos State
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and Ogun State Ministry of Commerce and
Industry were also briefed to seek support for WAPCo’s campaign against harmful sand
mining close to the ROW in Nigeria.

37.     Environmental Management in the Transition from Construction to Operation.
This transition has been smooth; the ICR supervision mission did not observe lapses in
safety practices or environmental management at any location, and was impressed with
the competence and knowledge of the operating staff at all locations.

Supervision (Africa Region and Project)

38.     Management in the Africa Region has continued to ensure strong oversight of the
Project, and received and reviewed periodic progress reports. The Country Directors in
Nigeria and Ghana, and Country Managers in Benin and Togo, have closely monitored


                                            14
                                                                             West African Gas Pipeline Project


  progress on the Project. The Bank team has been predominantly located in the field but
  has received advice and guidance from the Sector Manager, Sector Director and the
  Regional Vice President. Following is the progress:

      (a) Bank supervision missions. Two full-fledged Bank supervision missions per year,
          comprised of professionals from headquarters and the field, have been taking
          place during the construction phase (2007-2011). The missions have reviewed
          physical progress, and compliance with the environmental and social safeguards
          by WAPCo. Particular attention has been paid to the review of progress on the
          implementation of actions under the agreed MAP.
      (b) Supplemental field visits. The Bank team undertook additional field visits, as the
          situation warranted, on environmental and social mitigation issues.
      (c) ESAP mission. The final ESAP mission took place in August 2011 and provided
          independent advice on safety, and environmental and social mitigation. The
          ESAP’s recommendations were duly considered and suitably adopted by WAPCo.

                          V. Findings of Environment and Social Advisory Panel

  39.     Independent Review of Social Mitigation Measures. The key findings from the
  ESAP’s final mission and its recommendations for additional actions for further
  strengthening of environmental and social compliance of WAGP are given in Table 5.

   Table 5: Status and Recommendations of Environmental and Social Advisory Panel
Status of Activities as of August 2011                       Recommendations of ESAP
A. Social Development Actions
Completion of Community Development Projects:                The ESAP supports WAPCo’s determination to
WAPCo has completed 18 CDPs, 6 are in different              complete fully all projects in hand and to rehabilitate
stages of completion, and another 9 are yet to be            where essential. WAPCo needs to make the effort
awarded.                                                     necessary to address fundamental problems of
                                                             project sustainability, and position itself for better
                                                             project planning and construction in the future.
Sustainability of Community Development Projects:            WAPCo would provide a useful service by re-
WAPCo is reviewing the sustainability of all of its          visiting each borehole with determination to re-
completed CDPs, including boreholes. Since                   launch the failed systems. ESAP supports a shift of
sustainability will be determined by community               emphasis from bricks and mortar to livelihood
ownership and Government participation in the                projects but recommends: (a) WAPCo staff get
implementation of the CDPs, a draft project transfer         training in planning a livelihoods program; (b) the
agreement document has been completed and is                 livelihoods program be designed to provide a limited
awaiting stakeholder signatures. WAPCo has presented         set of projects for livelihood improvement widely in
the draft agreement to communities and relevant              demand, be administratively simple to operate and
Government authorities in Nigeria, Benin and Togo,           clearly beneficial; and (c) WAPCo identify, in each
with role and responsibilities of each party spelt out for   country, successful ongoing livelihood programs that
CDP maintenance and management.                              might be attracted by additional funds to operate in
                                                             WAPCo affected communities.
Incomplete Community Development Projects:                   WAPCo should push out the time frame in which to
Work on the incomplete CDPs is continuing, and               accomplish its near and medium-term community
WAPCo is expediting the early completion of planned          development objectives by an additional 2-3 years,
CDPs. It is also reviewing the status of some non-           and the ESAP recommends that: (a) WAPCo,
functioning CDPs to find sustainable solutions. It is        through its External Relations Unit, complete all



                                                        15
  5th Progress Report


Status of Activities as of August 2011                       Recommendations of ESAP
providing the necessary training to its External Relations   'promised' Projects with all components necessary
staff in effectively implementing CDPs.                      for good service; (b) review closely all non-
                                                             functioning and deteriorating projects; (c) plan and
                                                             implement fixes to lengthen the project life of each;
                                                             (d) consider more bricks and mortar projects if on
                                                             balance they are the best investment in a given
                                                             community; and (e) seek training for External
                                                             Relations staff in planning community projects and
                                                             maximizing use of local/external contractors, labor
                                                             and materials.
Community Development Projects for Year 3:                   WAPCo should plan and implement an adequate
Year 3 projects have been designed, focusing on              vulnerables’ management program for any
livelihood and income generating activities, with            substantial extension of the pipeline over land; and
vulnerable groups given priority attention in the            the poorest of the poor households should get special
selection of beneficiaries.                                  attention in the proposed livelihoods program.
Implementation monitoring and consultation:                  WAPCo should continue to monitor output and
WAPCo completed a follow up socio-economic survey,           impact of the CDPs through qualitative monitoring
conducted a Needs Assessment in the participating            by means of focus groups, by checking separately
countries; and has developed a structured periodic           with groups of men and women on priorities for
community and project monitoring plan as part of its         development investment.
corporate social responsibility and to better monitor
status of the CDPs. The Bank’s team also conducts two
public consultations yearly during missions, with PAPs
to verify WAPCo’s report.
Training of WAPCo field staff in M&E:                        WAPCo External Relations field staff should get
ESAP has been informed that this is being planned for        trained in monitoring with focus groups and the field
2012, and WAPCo External Relations field staff would         staff should take on qualitative monitoring tasks in a
receive training on monitoring and evaluation.               systematic fashion, using agreed indicators and
                                                             issues to be addressed.
Sand winning activity in Adjido (Nigeria):                   WAPCo should monitor for evidence of job loss in
Sand winning activity in Adjido is being continually         sand winning in Adjido.
monitored along with law enforcement agencies.
B. Environmental Management Actions
Restoration of the beach at Takoradi (Ghana):                WAPCo needs to follow up with the GEPA to ensure
The beach appears to have stabilized. There were sand        that the Takoradi shoreline monitoring program and
mining activities being conducted on the beach, and the      results are satisfactory and that no further action is
GEPA and other authorities are ensuring that mining is       required. It should continue to monitor sand winning
not conducted near the pipeline and does not cause           on the beach in the vicinity of the ROW and
erosion that could expose the pipeline. The GEPA was         collaborate with the GEPA Western Region to ensure
generally satisfied with WAPCo’s environmental               that there is adequate enforcement of the laws which
compliance, and appreciates the quarterly monitoring         prohibit sand winning.
reports.
Tema (Ghana) shoreline monitoring:                           WAPCo needs to: (a) follow up with GEPA and
Results of Tema shoreline monitoring indicate: (a) the       should continue to monitor sand winning on the
need to remove the steel buoys and installation of range     beach in the vicinity of the ROW; (b) WAPCo
markers; and (b) the need to manage dumping of solid         should collaborate with the GEPA-Tema District
waste on the beach (in the vicinity of the ROW).             Office to ensure adequate enforcement of the laws
WAPCo has made contact with the GEPA, and has                which prohibit sand winning; (c) WAPCo should
sought its support in ensuring the shoreline monitoring      work with the GEPA and/or the Ghana solid waste
program, including sand winning and management of            management authorities to prevent the dumping of
solid waste.                                                 solid waste (trash) on the beach in the vicinity of the
                                                             ROW; and (d) it should consider removing the steel
                                                             buoys marking the pipeline seaward of the berm and
                                                             install "Range Markers" at Tema for locating the



                                                        16
                                                                          West African Gas Pipeline Project


Status of Activities as of August 2011                    Recommendations of ESAP
                                                          pipeline.
Land erosion due to run-off water in Tema, Ghana:         At Tema, WAPCo should implement a permanent
The phenomenon of erosion along the pipeline ROW          solution to the erosion caused by run-off of water
onto the shore landing in Tema has been observed, and     adjacent to the pipeline on the slope between the
immediate stabilization and management measures are       R&M Station and the beach.
needed.
Beach erosion5 in Togo:                                   The severe erosion problem at Gbetsogbe (Togo) and
The Government of Togo, with the support of the West      potential long-term threat to the pipeline must be
African Economic and Monetary Union, is                   closely monitored by WAPCo, and it needs to
implementing a sea defense program that includes          continue to monitor sand winning on the beach in the
planned installation of 72 wave breakers. Nine have       vicinity of the ROW.
been installed in Aneho (at the border with Benin) with
encouraging results. The Government of Togo has
promulgated a law banning coastline mining.
Installation of range markers and monitoring of sand      WAPCo should consider installing “Range Markers”
winning in Benin:                                         which would assist the fisherman in locating the
Helping fishermen locate the pipeline, and monitoring     pipeline in Benin. WAPCo needs to continue to
of sand winning activities close to pipeline ROW are      monitor sand winning on the beach in the vicinity of
issues requiring continued attention.                     the ROW.
Enforcement of no-anchor zone in Benin:                   The reliability of both hardware and manning of the
The partnership between the Benin Navy and WAPCo is       VTMS facility in Cotonou should be improved.
functional. The AIS for monitoring and enforcing the no   WAPCo needs to be proactive in Ghana and Togo, as
anchor zone of the marine pipeline is functioning         well as in Benin, in improving the VTMS
somewhat better than previously, but there are both       technology, manning, and procedures to prevent
hardware and software aspects which should be             anchoring and similar incursions in the offshore
improved to ensure its effectiveness. The Government      exclusion zones. WAPCo should install VTMS
of Benin has banned salt production and wood              repeaters in the WAPCo Accra Control Center and
harvesting along the coastline and in the wetlands.       develop procedures for operators to assist in
                                                          monitoring ship traffic.
Road crossings and axle-loads:                            WAPCo operations should institute a methodology
Road crossings along the ROW and excessive axle-loads     for examining any informal road crossings, which
could be potential problems.                              provides assurance that the pipeline is not subject to
                                                          excessive loads resulting from the use of such
                                                          roadways. Remediation should be based on the
                                                          findings of this approach, and collaboration with
                                                          local authorities.
Community awareness and perception of hazards:            Hazards of the pipeline running through
There is an over-statement of pipeline hazards in the     communities should not be overstressed to those
community awareness programs, which needs to be           communities in view of the minimal risk they cause.
balanced.




  5
    It is important to point out that the beach erosion in Togo is not caused by WAGP, but is due to port
  development activities. The Bank is not in any way involved with supplemental environmental studies, or
  the installation of wave breakers, nor are these part of the Management Action Plan.


                                                     17
5th Progress Report


                                   VI. Way Forward

40.     Social Mitigation Measures. All social mitigation measures under the MAP have
been completed, and the livelihood restoration activities in Phase 3 of the CDPs continue
to be implemented. The Bank team continues to work closely with WAPCo to ensure that
PAPs derive the full benefit of the social development programs initiated under this
project.

41.    Environmental Management. All environmental management actions under the
MAP have been completed. The progress in implementing the environmental measures
has been substantial, and shortcomings related to reporting to the respective
environmental agencies has been remedied.

42.    Conclusion. The Project has been operating commercially since October 2011,
and has been delivering gas that is made available to it from the suppliers in Nigeria. Due
to supply constraints, the average deliveries have been lower than the contracted gas
volume. All activities in the MAP have been completed, and environmental and social
monitoring and management activities are being undertaken on a continuing basis. The
IDA Guarantee closes in January 2028. The ICR for the project is being finalized, two
years after the Commercial Operation Date (COD) was reached, as is the norm for the
guarantee operations.

43.    Since the Project has become fully operational and all the activities in the MAP
are completed, Management proposes that this report be considered final. The Bank will
continue supervision of the project as long as the Guarantee remains in force as per
OP/BP14.25. Close contact with WAPCo would be maintained to remain abreast with
community needs and concerns, and with any evolving safety, environmental, or social
development issues. The energy team in Nigeria, Benin, Togo and Ghana will continue to
monitor the development of the gas sector in their respective countries on an ongoing
basis.




                                            18
