 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14706

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 04/13/2015

               Country: Africa
             Project ID: P082502                                                  Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: 3a-west African Gas         Project Costs (US$M):                      590                950
                         Pipeline (ida S/up)
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                  PRG 50              PRG 50
      Sector Board:        Energy and Mining         Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                             Board Approval Date :                                 11/23/2004
                                                            Closing Date:              06/25/2013          06/25/2013
          Sector(s):       Oil and gas (100%)
          Theme(s):        Regional integration (34%); Pollution management and environmental health (33%);
                           Infrastructure services for private sector development (33%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:          ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Raghavan Narayanan         Fernando Manibog      Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

There is no statement of objective available in the Guarantee Agreement. According to the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD), the objective of the WAGP project was to contribute to:

(a) Improving the competitiveness of the energy sectors in Ghana, Benin, and Togo by promoting the use of cheaper
and environmentally cleaner gas from Nigeria in lieu of solid and liquid fuels for power generation and other industrial
and commercial uses, and by diversifying energy supply sources, and

(b) Fostering regional economic and political integration that would support economic growth (and in particular the
development of the West Africa electricity market).

For the purpose of this ICR review, IEG uses the above overall macro-objectives set out in the PAD, and assesses
relevance and efficacy in relation to them.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

The main component of the project was the provision of an IDA partial risk guarantee. Under the project, Nigeria Gas
(i.e. N-Gas owned by NNPC, Chevron and Shell) contracts for the purchases of natural gas from the respective
Chevron and Shell joint ventures (JV) with NNPC at two delivery locations on the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System
(ELPS) in Nigeria. N-Gas is also responsible for shipping gas on ELPS and West Africa Gas Pipeline (WAGP) to the
buyers in Benin, Togo, and Ghana. Since Volta River Authority (VRA) in Ghana is the largest, single purchaser of gas,
the Bank provided a limited IDA Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG) to cover a portion of the payment due to WAPCo for gas
sold to VRA. The Gas Sales Agreement (GSA) includes a portion of VRA’s overall payment to pay WAPCo for the
transport of gas. In the event of any continuing failure by VRA to pay its obligations, N-Gas could consider terminating
the GSA, but such a termination will result in VRA owing a “termination payment” to N-Gas and to WAPCo. The PRG is
designed to cover the risks faced by investors in WAPCo, arising from non-payment by VRA for the gas received which
could result in the termination of General Services Agreement.

In addition, the project consisted of the following key elements essential to achieve the intended outcomes.
         a new pipeline system (678 km long) that will transport natural gas from Nigeria to Ghana, Togo, and
Benin,
        ancillary and relevant infrastructure including spurs, power plant conversions, compression investments
         contracts for the purchase of natural gas from the Producers;
         gas transportation agreements for the transportation of natural gas by the Transporters;
         gas sales agreements for the sales of foundation amounts of natural gas to VRA and CEB; and
         a number of contracts for the design, engineering, construction, ownership, operation and maintenance,
oversight, and political risk mitigation of the new pipeline.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
The financing from the project sponsors was contingent on the IDA and MIGA guarantees to WAGP.




The proposed IDA guarantee coverage, for US$50 million, was structured as partial risk guarantee of payment by
Ghana of liquidated damages arising from early termination of the Takoradi Gas Sales Agreement due to breach by
Volta River Authority (VRA).

The total cost of pipeline commissioning was higher than estimations by nearly $360 million and if one considers the
interest payment during the delayed construction the total cost of the project had more than doubled.

The total cost including overruns amounted to US$950 million, a deviation from estimates at appraisal by 52.5%.
Further, there were delays in restoring the pipeline ruptures (in Lome), restoring the supply to Foundation customers
and fully commissioning the supporting infrastructure including spurs and connections to the power plants in Benin,
Togo, which was completed in the period June 2013-December 2013, according to the ICR.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Substantial

The project objectives were relevant to the West African countries. At the time of project appraisal, the energy sectors
in the four countries were faced with the following challenges: (a) high cost of thermal electricity generation on
account of use of expensive liquid fuels; (b) generation capacity deficits leading to unreliable power supply; (c)
non-utilization and flaring of gas in Nigeria, with attendant environmental consequences; (d) insufficient regional
cooperation in energy trade due to physical, institutional, regulatory, and legal constraints, and weak political
commitment; (e) poor power sector performance, and the need for reforms in the participating countries; and (f) low
access of the population to modern sources of energy.

The project objectives are aligned with Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) for Sub-Saharan Africa and
particularly Pillar 1 (Regional Infrastructure Development) for West Africa Region, with the expectations of reducing
the regional electrical power deficit and lower energy costs. The project benefitted from the participation of IDA and
MIGA guaranteeing, indirectly, the financier's equity in the project.
In addition, the project objectives were aligned with the West Africa Power Development Project (WAPP) which
supports increased electricity trade in West Africa. The WAGP was part of the action plan for the New Partnership for
Africa's Development (NEPAD) and was actively supported by the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS). In regards to the current WBG Ghana Country Partnership Strategy, developing Oil & Gas capacity in
Ghana is one of the key projects under the pillar, 'Increasing Economic Competitiveness and Job Creation". The
Government of Ghana continues to identify energy, oil and gas development and related infrastructure as 'strategic
infrastructure' according to the National Infrastructure Plan (NIP), and a strategic priority to ensure access to reliable
and adequate energy supply for households and industry.

However, IEG notes the weakness in the objective-setting as well. The objectives set in the PAD are too broad
("improving competitiveness" and "fostering economic and political integration" ) with its own under-lying critical
assumptions and difficult to capture as part of the review process. This has been partly acknowledged by the project
team in the essence of the ICR. On closer reading, the main objective for the project is to contribute to
competitiveness of the energy sector. To that extent, the review has assessed how project results will be measured in
the context of this objective.

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial

While the PAD has clearly stated objectives and a well articulated Results Framework, the ICR was not able to
capture the actual results for all indicators and sub-indicators at completion. The causal chain between the guarantee
instrument provided by IDA and the results chain was clear, albeit ambitious. One of the critical assumptions that
improved competitiveness benefits the poor is difficult to assume and has not been discussed.

The project design fell short in one important area when considering the exogenous risk factors to the project
outcomes: supply-side risk from Nigeria. There is a subtle and brief mention of supply risk in the project documents
and in passing but appears to have been sidelined with extensive analysis on the demand-side risks arising in Ghana.
The ICR acknowledges this oversight and has articulated a useful lesson on this issue. In addition to the weaknesses
discussed in the ICR, it is useful to note that the PRG framework did not fully capture the parallel initiatives (West
Africa Power Pool, Jubilee Offshore Fields Development) and Nigeria sector reforms that the World Bank Group was
supporting in a different capacity.

The project design and the institutional engagement framework was maintained relatively simple, convening only the
relevant institutions from the supply and beneficiary countries. However, the contractual framework between the
buyers and sellers was designed to bring commercial rigor to the project participants but has not been enforced
effectively, one reason being its complexity in the view of the institutions (Source: IEG Mission in Ghana and
interviews with GoG institutions, February 2014)

In balance, considering the above factors, and the fact that financing for the project was contingent on the PRG
framework from IDA (and MIGA), the overall thrust for mobilizing private sector investments from Chevron and Shell
and other investors in WAPCo, IEG assigns a Substantial rating for the relevance of the design.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

PDO 1: To contribute to improving the competitiveness of the energy sector in Ghana

Modest

The main outputs include completion of the physical infrastructure, adhering to the contractual framework and
execution of related agreements, institutional capacity-building activities, and enacting of reforms. The expected
outcomes were the developmental and welfare benefits achieved. On this objective, there were delays in output
achievements: the gas pipeline and spurs were fully functional only from December 2013, and more importantly, there
was a drop in gas supplies. As discussed below, the negative outcomes of these delays and insufficient supply were
evident in IEG field visit to Ghana in February 2014 to assess the development results from MIGA's intervention for
the same project(MIGA #4437, West Africa Gas Pipeline).

The long-term requirements of gas supply for the existing and upcoming power projects just in Ghana alone are
expected to be north of 400 mmcf/d (Source: Ghana Gas) but it is highly unlikely that the pipeline will be able to
deliver such volume in the foreseeable future. The situation lends itself to potentially additional cost burden for private
sector enterprises to source alternate supplies with a high likelihood that these alternate sources may create more
risky endeavors for the operators across Ghana, Benin and Togo.

Evidence presented in the ICR in Annex 2 are useful but cannot be fully attributed to the WAGP operations alone. For
instance, since the construction was completed only in the middle of 2011, attributing the drop in wholesale electricity
prices in 2011 itself is questionable. Further, the existence of commercial contracts may not be good on its own stand
alone basis if the underlying commodity is not available to support the contracts. Finally, the reduction of gas flaring
data in Nigeria is useful but negligible from the perspective of WAGP's contribution.

Ghana's Public Utilities Regulatory Commission stated in its October 2013 press release: "The Commission wishes to
indicate that the cost of producing electricity has increased due to the shift in the generation mix of using more thermal
electricity as against hydro. The energy situation over the past year has not helped due to the unavailability of Natural
Gas through the West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP) for electricity generation which resulted in an acute load
shedding situation in the country. There is no doubt that this situation has adversely contributed to the decline in the
economic development and growth of the country because industry depended largely on the alternative sources which
are more expensive that electricity through the grid. Currently, the supplies of Natural Gas through WAGP are not
adequate thus forcing the VRA to largely depend on expensive imported light crude oil for generation".
Further, according to the Inspection Panel Report’s Executive Summary Conclusions, “While gas is currently being
provided to the customers, the full Project benefits will be realized only if supplies from Nigeria can be assured at the
contracted volume of 133 mmcf/d. The pipeline infrastructure could be utilized to transport volume of 170 mmcf/d, if
Nigeria could make additional gas available for export.” It is evident from the project documents that Nigeria has no
plans to increase the supply to 133 mmcf/d at this time. The overall operational challenges and mishaps in execution
of the project have hampered down the potential achievement of the project objectives. The current strategy of the
foundation customers to pursue, as an alternative to the Nigerian gas supply, liquid fuels supply (both LNG and
offshore oil) is completely diverging from the project’s original intent.
Since 2013, the gas supplies have dropped further and WAGP is expected to pick up gas from the Jubilee Oil field as
an alternative option (Source: MIGA and IEG Field Mission to Ghana, February 2014). This would however still be
below the expected 80 mmcf/d as per the original services agreement. In addition, the counter-factual is supported by
evidence of WAGP acquiring gas supply from offshore oil and gas fields. On the positives, there was evidence of
ancillary sector development, capacity development for the oil & gas sector, partly due to local content laws, and
non-cyclical, permanent job creation contributing to the competitiveness of Ghana to a certain degree, as a result of
the project.

PDO 2: To contribute to fostering regional economic and political integration

Substantial

The results from the increased energy trade in the region can be attributed to several factors including but not limited
to macroeconomic fiscal policy, trade policy, monetary policy etc. However, IEG acknowledges there is contribution to
the increased trade as a result of the WAGP project. Further, the establishment of the WAGP treaty and the
International Project Agreement (IPA) has led to increased regulatory oversight and improved local content laws.

Summary: On balance, the overarching macro-objectives set up at the time of Board approval have not been met
despite green shoots of positivity in social development programs setup by the project company. If one considers the
sub-indicators, there is partial achievement of outcomes as presented in the ICR but IEG's review raises the issue of
attribution. IEG assesses this project as one with several minor shortcomings and one major shortcoming (in
non-mitigating the supply-side risk) that outweighs the positive, such as jobs and social development programs, where
the achievements are expected to be minimal. In summary, the available evidence justifies an overall Modest rating
for efficacy.


5. Efficiency:

Modest
Based on the financial and economic performance models presented with the ICR, it is evident that the project
performance is under whelming and bears highly negative returns to the project stakeholders.
According to the ICR, the project ERR is at 16% in a low supply case. Based on IEG re-calculations, adjusting for
maintenance capital expenditures, inflation and lower supply case scenario (since 2013), the ERR is closer to 6%. For
the purpose of sensitivity analysis, IEG increased the working capital expenditures as a % of the Gross Revenues, in
line with commercial standards, at 4%. Further, IEG reduced the overall gas supply available in the base case and low
case scenario presented in the ICR's Economic Analysis worksheets for the project.
Further, as acknowledged in the ICR, the project has gone through construction delays, pipeline ruptures, sabotage
and operational challenges that make the overall cost to benefit ratio less than satisfactory at the time of review. The
main connectivity of the spurs to the power plants in Benin, Togo were completed only in the end of 2013, according
to the ICR.
Currently, the ex-post economic analysis, considers the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) to be that of using fossil
fuels to generate the required electricity in the region and compares the cost of gas imports from Nigeria to the LCOE.
From the project documents, it was evident that alternate ways of efficiently enabling electricity access in West Africa
were available at the time of project design: (i) building cross-border transmission and distribution lines (ii) extracting
gas from domestic/offshore fields and (iii) importing gas via sea. In fact, the Bank was supporting some of these
initiatives as stated in the sections above.
Although the cost-benefit ratio was not complete for the alternate ways of generating electricity, in IEG's assessment,
based on the Field Mission to Ghana, one of the alternatives may have been a more prudent approach, reducing the
level of complexity in contractual agreements for a start.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

       Appraisal                     Yes                                      24.9%                                    100%

       ICR estimate                  Yes                                       16%                                     100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is Moderately Unsatisfactory considering both the positive and negative aspects in
the project's relevance, efficacy and efficiency, and the significant shortcomings in the project's ability to achieve its
intended development outcomes. Although some of the micro-level indicators presented in the ICR show signs of
positive achievements, the macro-objectives set in the project have not been met at the time of this review. Since
2013, the gas supplies from Nigeria have further reduced and the gas pipeline capacity has not doubled. The overall
economic impacts, and the benefits of the commercially oriented contractual agreements from the investment and
IDA's guarantee to the project sponsors have not been attained.

The strategic relevance is rated Substantial, while the efficacy and efficiency indicators are rated modest. In summary,
a Moderately Unsatisfactory rating is warranted for the overall outcome rating.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

High

The project continues to face high risks to achieving its intended development outcomes, most notably on the gas
supply through the pipeline, to sufficiently impact the electricity generation needs of the beneficiary countries. In IEG's
assessment the main risk mitigants to the supply issue needs to be one of a political compromise between Nigeria
and Ghana.

Further, the institutions behind one of the largest infrastructure endeavors in West Africa have not made any major
strides in finding a solution to the force majeure issue. Ghana continues to face headwinds from economic, fiscal
perspective as well but overall the energy and extractives sector continues to gain dominance in the overall share of
the GDP. IEG views the commitment from the Ghanaian institutions towards the open access of the pipeline to be
positive, as such no external risks are expected to be detrimental to the operations of the pipeline leading to a call on
the PRG.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) had rated the Quality at entry as Satisfactory. However, IEG notes that there
were significant shortcomings in the Bank's work quality at entry:

1. Risk Assessment: Insufficient risk identification and inadequate mitigation in the project are the main reasons
that the Bank Performance is below expectations. Given that there are three other parallel initiatives supported by
the WBG for ECOWAS (West Africa Power Pool, Offshore Oil & Gas Development in Ghana, Power sector
reforms in Nigeria), better coordination among the teams would most probably have revealed the
over-expectations on the gas supply.

2. M&E Framework: Indicators in the M&E framework were difficult to track, collect data on and report
systematically. Further, the objectives set in the approval documents are too 'macro' to be considered for realistic
achievement. Despite these shortcomings, the Bank's preparation and appraisal was materially satisfactory in the
following areas: poverty development aspects, technical/financial/economic aspects, the rationale for strategic
relevance and approach.

3. Environmental & Social Safeguards: The Bank has categorized this project as a Category A project, according
to its environmental and social safeguard procedures. The rational underlying this categorization is based on
documented environmental and social issues mainly in the area of pre-emption of land use in pipeline
right-of-way, land acquisition and compensation; disturbance and minor losses of natural habitats, including
terrestrial upland, wetland, river as well as coastal and offshore areas; impacts on soils and acceleration of
erosion and sedimentation (and deterioration of water quality) in waterways; and solid and liquid waste
management. Based on the assessment of the key E&S issues during the appraisal the following site specific
Safeguard Policies were triggered and applied: Environmental Assessment, International Waterways; Natural
Habitats, and Involuntary Resettlement. WAPCo had inadequate assessment of some of the key safeguard issues
at appraisal particularly the damage to the land and livelihood of certain communities, and project affected
persons (PAPs) losing land and the inadequate disclosure of the relevant information, such as the Environmental
and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) were some of the short comings. In
2006, a case was brought to the Inspections Panel over the controversial West African Gas Pipeline Project. The
list of disclosure related allegations was extensive. According to the complainants, although WAPCo periodically
consulted landowners, other stakeholders were wrongly excluded and the overwhelming majority of project
affected peoples were not consulted during the preparation of the Environmental Impact Assessment and
Resettlement Action Plan. The requesters said that they could not comment on the ESIA because it was not made
publicly available. They also said that it would have been helpful if relevant portions of the large documents
including the ESIA and RAP had been reproduced in Yoruba and distributed to impacted communities. On April
27, 2006, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection from Ifesowapo Host Communities Forum of the
WAGP (Nigeria) and Friends of the Earth Ghana (FoE-Ghana). The main complaints related to the Bank’s
non-compliance with its own safeguard policies and procedures, low compensation rates for the land taken,
damage to land and livelihood, gas flaring reduction in the Niger Delta, the safety of an associated pipeline, impact
of construction activity on fishing, and inadequate consultation on coastal fisheries in Ghana. The Panel submitted
its report on April 25, 2008. The Management Response to the Panel Report explained how the Bank had made
significant efforts to apply its policies and procedures but recognized that further work was needed to strengthen
the supervision of the Project and in particular to ensure compliance with Bank policies. IEG agree that both the
ESIA and RAP should have been disclosed to the local communities in the language they would understand. This
was also requirement of the Bank’s Environmental Impact Assessment Policy (4.01) in effect at the time of
appraisal that all project affected persons should have been carefully consulted about the likely adverse impact
and the outcome of every consultations should have been documented. Hence, due to the above shortcomings
the E&S performance of the project at appraisal was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Moderately Satisfactory
Environmental & Social Safeguards: During implementation, and following the IP investigation, WAPCO adopted
several corrective measures to addressed the above shortcomings indicated by IP: (a) completed the updated
RAP to cover land owners, who were inadequately compensated for land and assets along the pipeline right of
way and construction sites, which required WAPCO to assess the fair market value and opportunity costs for loss
of trees, crop and structures; (b) revised the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to include clearly identified
environmental management counterparts in participating countries; and (c) provided Community Development
Projects focused on health and skills training and livelihood support. These were undertaken in addition to a
comprehensive 24 point- Management Action Plan (MAP) that was implemented based on the IP’s findings.

Based on the field mission conducted in Ghana in February 2014 and further analysis of project records, IEG
concurs with the IP Report findings and the assessment presented in the ICR. Given that IDA played the role of
PRG provider and not the main lender to the project, the level of influence is relatively lower. Despite the
shortcomings as stated in the IP, the turnaround plans from the team were quick and diligent. Subsequently, the
Aide Memoire / Mission reports represent a satisfactory level of supervision and administration of the PRG
framework ensuring fiduciary and safeguard aspects. In summary, IDA was materially compliant with the quality
of supervision but missed an opportunity to undertake proactive identification of threats and resolve them prior to
the IP investigation.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

In IEG's review, the three governments of Ghana, Benin and Togo, despite their commitments through the pipeline
construction delays and escalating costs, have not made meaningful policy dialogues and institution level
engagements with the main gas supplier, Nigeria. Further, in light of the macro-commitments to ECOWAS and
RIAS initiatives that the 4 Governments subscribe to, IEG notes with concern that not much progress has been
made since 2013, In essence, the case presents itself as one where the public sector entities treat the failures of
the pipeline/project as a private sector problem, given that the bulk of the financing was sourced from outside and
not borrowings of the Government.


   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

IEG concurs with the ICR assessment on this indicator. The agencies and institutions have taken some positive
steps in terms of monitoring and enforcing local content laws but have generally underperformed in tackling the
more substantive issues, such as the gas supply, force majeure, disruptions in the pipeline and providing security
for the operators. The safeguards-related mishaps add to the serious weaknesses in implementing agency
performance.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

There was buy-in from the stakeholders of WAGP in collecting some of the relevant data from M&E design
perspective. However, IEG concurs with some of the assertions made in the ICR. The PDO and related indicators
were ambitious and went beyond what could realistically be leveraged by the operational teams. Some indicators
were not well defined, and some indicators lacked either the target or baseline, and some indicators could not be
tracked easily due to reliance on cross-border trade data. The level of project reporting, supervision and data
collection would have to be extensive and include deeper periodic surveys with multiple stakeholders.


b. M&E Implementation:

Baseline data was not collected in some of the indicators, so M&E implementation is sub-optimal. The indicator on
flared gas % is relevant but it is not practical to do a contribution analysis from this data set.

c. M&E Utilization:

Several data sets were estimations with no real baselines or systematic collection of data to feed into the
micro-indicators set up in the results framework of the PAD. Further, the M&E utilization is severely curtailed by the
macro-objectives set in the PAD.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

IDA has undertaken several Safeguards-focused site visits to the project and met with local communities and
community leaders in Badagry, Cotonou, Lome, Tema and Takoradi; environmental agencies in Nigeria, Benin and
Ghana; and with local and corporate community development officers of the WAPCo to determine the current state of
compliance regarding environmental issues and WAGP’s community development plan. In conclusion, all
environmental actions under the Management Action Plan (MAP) have been completed including all outstanding
resettlement claims (Nigeria and Togo) have been resolved. Payments have been made and all documents have
been fully executed and are on file at WAPCo headquarters, and regular monitoring is ongoing. According to the latest
Bank/MIGA’s June 30, 2014 progress report, the project has become fully operational and all the activities in the
Management Action Plan are completed. The Bank also agreed to continue supervision of the project as long as the
Guarantee remains in force as per OP/BP14.25. Hence, the project meets current requirements.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Not applicable given the intervention was through a Partial Risk Guarantee instrument.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

One unintended consequence is the renewed focus on extracting gas from offshore fields in Ghana. Given the open
access on WAGP, the flarable gas from the offshore field is now being channeled through the pipeline since
December 2014.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately               Moderately              The project's objectives and design
                               Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory          were substantially relevant to the
                                                                                country and the sector at the time of
                                                                                approval and at present. However, the
                                                                                project's objectives were
                                                                                over-ambitious and the evidence
                                                                                supports a modest rating for efficacy.
                                                                                 Efficiency is rated modest given that the
                                                                                 recalculated ERR is well below the
                                                                                 expectations at approval and is heavily
                                                                                 dependent on considering fossil fuels
                                                                                 as the LCOE while ignoring options like
                                                                                 the domestic offshore gas extractions.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      High                 Gas supplies continue to be highly
                     Outcome:                                                    uncertain, thus presenting high risks to
                                                                                 the achievement of the project's DO.
            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately           Risk assessment, M&E and
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory       environmental and social Safeguards
                                                                                 (ESS) compliance were moderately
                                                                                 unsatisfactory at entry. ESS issues
                                                                                 were addressed during supervision,
                                                                                 which was satisfactory overall. In line
                                                                                 with guidelines, the overall rating for
                                                                                 Bank performance follows that of the
                                                                                 Outcome rating, hence the moderately
                                                                                 unsatisfactory rating.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately           The Governments of Benin, Togo and
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory       Ghana have been largely silent on
                                                                                 pursuing a political engagement with
                                                                                 Nigeria given the significant amount of
                                                                                 resources expanded in structuring,
                                                                                 appraising and execution of the project,
                                                                                 considered one of the potentially
                                                                                 transformative engagements for the
                                                                                 West Africa region. From the agency
                                                                                 perspective, WAGP compliance with
                                                                                 the operational and safeguard policies
                                                                                 have been deficient.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR offers several lessons and the most important ones are summarized below:

a. Attention should be paid to both supply and demand-side risks in regional infrastructure investments. A key
lesson for cross-border energy projects is that both supply-side and demand side risks need to be carefully
assessed and their potential impact quantified. The supply side risks, i.e. helping assure uninterrupted gas supplies
from Nigeria, did not receive the same attention, despite the potential for jeopardizing the project development
objectives. Even though a gas supply agreement was agreed to contractually, it has proved unenforceable in
practice, due to the lack of practical sanctions in the face of a competing need for this gas supply in Nigeria’s rapidly
expanding domestic gas market.

b. Assessment of risk is essential in operations involving Public-Private Partnerships (PPP). In operations involving
a PPP, the objectives of the governments and those of the private sector partners are not identical. The PAD listed
a number of risks to the project objectives and rated ‘payment obligations to N-Gas by VRA (and CEB) – correctly -
as a ‘Substantial’ risk. The main focus of the risk section in the PAD was on risks to the project economics and
finances, which were critical for the participation of the private oil companies. However, risks to the two main PDO’s
of ‘improving the competitiveness of the energy sectors in Ghana, Benin and Togo’ and ‘fostering regional
economic and political integration’ were less clearly identified. For example, a regional infrastructure investment
necessarily requires a close dialogue with participating countries to be successful, including with Nigeria, the
supplier of natural gas. The main lesson emerging from this regional PPP is that risk analysis should typically go
beyond risks faced by the private partners, and should focus directly on the specific risks to the PDOs.

c. The scope and conduct of supervision of a transformational regional project should be comprehensive regardless
of the instrument used and amount of Bank support. The operation consisted of a relatively small PRG to one
country, which leveraged financing for a four country transformational infrastructure investment. While this kind of
leverage is laudable, it requires an adjustment in how the Bank’s prepares and supervises operations. Supervision
was often focused on the physical aspects of the project (e.g. construction, safeguards) and less on the underlying
regional dynamics of creating a gas market. During preparation and the early phases of supervision, this regional
project lacked clear country ownership within the Bank. The supervision of the project was not given priority during
the first 18 months following Board approval, reflected in the low supervision budget, until a request for an
Inspection Panel review was registered in April 2006. Implementation support at this time focused mainly on the
financial closure aspects of the transaction. The lack of clear country ownership in the Africa region during
preparation and early supervision phases made it difficult to initiate a dialogue on regional energy investments,
taking action to help assure gas supplies from Nigeria for the WAGP, and, more generally, discussing the particular
institutional and policy needs of regional infrastructure investments. Many of these lessons from the preparation
and early implementation of the WAGP have already been incorporated by the Bank in the past years. An African
regional projects department has been created, which has since helped bring a stronger focus to cross-boundary
issues. Also, at the time of the WAGP project, the use of Partial Risk Guarantees (PRG) was still an exception, as
was working across the World Bank Group. Joint WBG support and the use of PRGs have both taken off in the
energy sector in Africa since WAGP, building on the early pioneering work of the WAGP team. In general, when the
WBG engages in these inherently risky transformational operations, it should place its full weight behind the
operation, particularly during the implementation phase, leveraging its political weight within the countries as well as
its financial and technical resources to increase the chances of success.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is clear and optimally written, especially in explaining the problems that were encountered at the
implementation stage which in turn led to several delays in completing the construction of the pipeline. The ICR has a
candid view of the areas where the bank could have done better, namely, supervision elements and supply risk
assessment. However, there are areas where the ICR is not clear, especially in capturing the data points on indicators
that were part of the PAD results framework. The discussion of the Monitoring & Evaluation areas is brief and certain
indicator measurements could have been tracked better from M&E perspective to offer insights into the development
results. For example, the following indicators were not captured in the ICR (i) decrease in the use of oil fired thermal
plants, (ii) flaring and venting of gas in Nigeria, and (iii) expanded volume of trade in the ECOWAS region. (There is
information on delivery volumes for the three countries covered by WAGP). The lessons are well articulated.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
