Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14971-VN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT PROJECT
DECEMBER 22, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
November 1995
Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (D)
US$ = 11,0 1 8 Dong
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AusAID       Australian Agency for International Development
ARI          Acute Respiratory Infections
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBR          Crude Birth Rate
CDD          Control of Diarrheal Diseases
CDR          Crude Death Rate
CHC          Commune Health Center
CIF          Cost, Insurance, Freight
DALY         Disability-adjusted Life Year
DHC          District Health Center
DMEC         Department of Medical Equipment and Construction
DP           Department of Pharmacy
DPF          Department of Planning and Finance
DST          Department of Science and Training
DT           Department of Treatment
EPI          Expanded Program of Immunization
FP           Family Planning
FY           Fiscal Year
GSO          General Statistical Office
GTZ          Gessellschafl fur Techische Zusammenarbeit
HIV/AIDS   Human Immune Deficiency/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
HSU          Health Statistics Unit
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICP          Intercommunal Poly-clinic
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education, and Communication
IMPE         Institute for Malaria, Parasitology, and Entomology
IMR          Infant Mortality Rate
ITBRD        Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MCH          Maternal and Child Health
MMR          Maternal Mortality Rate
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOH          Ministry of Health
MPI          Ministry of Planning and Investment
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NCPFP        National Committee for Population and Family Planning
NHSP         National Health Support Project
NMCP         National Malaria Control Program
ODA          Official Development Assistance
PFHP         Population and Family Health Project
PHC          Primary Health Care
PHRD         Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMU          Project Management Unit
SIDA         Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
TB           Tuberculosis
UCI          Universal Child Immunization
U5MR         Under-five Mortality Rate
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNFPA        United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
VLSS         Viet Nam Living Standards Survey
WHO          World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January I - December 31
IDA July I - June 30



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT PROJECT
Table Of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................                       iv
1. THE SECTOR   . .
A. Background                                                              I
Country Background .1
B. The Population, Health and Nutrition Sector .1
Organization of the Health System                .2
Human Resource Constraints                     .4
Information Needs                         .5
Current Health and Nutrition Status               .5
C. The Changing Health Sector--Sector Issues               .7
D. Priority Actions for the Health Sector .10
E. Strategy for Sector Development .12
F. Bank Experience .13
2. THE PROJECT .14
A. Objectives and Scope .14
B. Project Descnption .15
Component 1: Assistance to Commune and District Health Centers .   15
Component 2: Assistance to Three Priority National Programs .18
Component 3: Strengthening Institutional Health Planning and
Management in the Ministry of Health .20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Viet Nam in June-July
1995. The mission comprised L. Richard Meyers (Task Manager), Bcmhard Liese (Director,
Health Services). Nguyen Van Minh (Operations Officer, RMV), Claudia von Monbart
(Economist), S. Subramanian (Disbursement Specialist), Mohindar Virdy (Procurement
Specialist), Ji An Zhou (Human Resources Specialist) and consultants Ved Kumar
(Pharmaceuticals and Logistics Specialist) and Mario Taguiwalo (Health Economics). Pamela
Wright and Orjan Sjoberg joined the mission as consultants to the Government of the Netherlands
and SIDA, respectively.   Oscar Echeverri, Rama Lakshminarayanan and Nicholas Prescott
contributed to the preparation of the project in earlier phases. The contributions of the following
consultants funded under a Japanese Grant for project preparation are also acknowledged: Cyril
Bowman, Orville Solon and Melvyn Thome. Peer reviewers were Jeffrey Hammer (PRDPE),
Janet Hohnen (EA2RS) and James Socknat (ASTHR). The report was cleared by Sven Burmester
(Chief, EA1HR) and Callisto Madavo (Director, EAI).



-11-
3.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENT .............................................. 23
A.  Cost Estimates ..............................................               23
B. Financing ..............................................                     25
C. Procurement                     ........................................ 26
D.  Disbursement ..............................................                  28
4.     PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ........................... 30
A .   O rganization  ..............................................              30
B.  Accounts and  Auditing ............................................. .       33
C. Progress Reviews and Reporting            ........................................ 33
D. Impact on Women .............................................                 34
E. Environmental Aspects ..............................................          34
F. Sustainability                  ........................................ 35
5.     PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................................         38
A. Benefits               .............................................          38
B. Risks .............................................                           39
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    .. 40
7.   TEXT TABLES
Table 3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component .24
Table 3.2    Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure .24
Table 3.3  Financing Plan                               .25
Table 3.4    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements   .         .26
Table 3.5    Disbursement Categories                                             29
Table 11.1  Project Performance Indicators         ..93
8.   FIGURES
Figure 4.1   Overall Implementation Structure of NHSP .31
9.   ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Provinces to be Supported by Component 1 .43
Annex 2:   Investing in an Essential Infrastructure for Delivering Public
Health Services in Viet Nam                                     .. 44
Annex 3:    Furniture, Medical Equipment, Drugs and Supplies to be Provided 50
Annex 4:    Procedures for the Financing, Procurement and Distribution
of Drugs and Equipment                           . .56
Annex 5:   Decision Rules for Civil Works Investments in CHCs and DHCs .. 64
Annex 6: Training Program .66



-111-
Annex 7:   Support to National Disease Control Programs                                        . .    70
Annex 8:          Project Costs                    ............................................. 74
Annex 9:         Disbursement Schedule and Profile ............................................. 81
Annex  10:    Project Management ..............................................                               82
Annex  11:    Project Performance Indicators ............................................. 89
Annex  12:    Activities to Address the Needs of Ethnic Minority Populations ..... 98
Annex 13:    Implementation Schedule                        ............................................. 104
Annex  14:    IDA  Supervision Plan .................. ..                      .......................... 106
Annex 15:  Selected Documents Available in the Project File ............ .                                   110
10. MAP
IBRD 27419






-Iv-
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Health and the Local Governments of the
Project Provinces
Beneficiaries:            Not Applicable
Poverty:                  Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                   SDR 68 million (US$101.2 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity and 10 years grace
Commitment Fee:          0.5 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:         Not Applicable
Financing Plan:           See Para. 3.6
Net Present Value:       Not Applicable
Map Number:               IBRD 27419
Project ID Number:       4838






VIET NAM
NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT PROJECT
1.   THE SECTOR
A. Background
Country Background
1.1          Since the late 1980s, Viet Nam  has undergone a period of successful
macroeconomic stabilization, structural reform, and adjustment to external shocks occasioned
by the collapse of the Soviet Union. By 1992, the economy had fully recovered and growth
climbed to 8.3 percent. The decade of the 1990s promises to mark Viet Nam's transition to
sustained and rapid growth. While growth performance and future prospects are good, Viet
Nam remains a very low-income country with a per capita GDP of less than US$200.
Encouragement of broadly-based economic growth with policies that absorb and make
productive use of labor will play an important role in reducing aggregate poverty in Viet Nam.
However, certain groups--the more disadvantaged and those living in resource poor regions--
are likely to lag behind. The policy challenge for the 1990s therefore lies in taking advantage
of Viet Nam's substantial growth potential while at the same time ensuring widespread
participation in the benefits of development.
1.2         Broad-based economic growth will generate new and diverse income-earning
activities for the poor in Viet Nam, but some will be unable to take full advantage of them
because of illiteracy, lack of skills, ill-health and malnutrition. Ensuring access for the poor to
basic social services--especially primary education, basic health care and family planning is
doubly essential. Viet Nam has made impressive progress in providing widespread access to
basic social services for a country with such a low income level. It has also developed an
extensive system of social transfers and safety nets. Altogether public spending on these
programs absorbs around one-third of the Government's discretionary current expenditure.
But since the late 1980s the quality and quantity of social service provision has shown signs of
deterioration. Secondary school enrollments have declined sharply and utilization of health
services has also fallen. These developments have occurred in parallel with major changes in
the provision and financing of social services as part of Viet Nam's ambitious program of
structural reform.
B. The Population, Health and Nutrition Sector
1.3         Past Achievements.   Viet Nam's past record on health and fertility
improvements has been impressive and matched by few low-income countries. For example,
the infant mortality rate (IMIR) was roughly halved from about 156 per 1,000 live births in
1960 to around 83 in 1979 and was then approximately halved again during the next ten years.
The total fertility rate, which was 5.1 children in 1979, fell by over 25% between 1979 and
1989. A number of factors jointly contributed to the health gains achieved by Viet Nam:



-2-
establishment of a vast network of primary health facilities throughout the country;
implementation of a number of categorical health programs to deal with preventable health
problems, such as malaria, diarrheal diseases, and immunizable diseases; and high rates of
literacy, especially among women. A strong past political commitment to health resulted in a
substantial allocation of resources to the sector.
1.4           Recent Declines. Beginning in the mid-1970s, however, a number of problems
arose. Among these were the burden of improving the poor health infrastructure in the South
after reunification, sharply diminished external assistance to the sector, acute macroeconomic
instability and a deepening fiscal crisis in the mid-1980s. The political imperative traditionally
accorded to the sector also began to ebb somewhat. Under these circumstances, inputs to the
sector--drugs, equipment, medical supplies, maintenance--began declining. A well-functioning
health service system has therefore been breaking down. At the same time, the sector has had
to address a set of new challenges entailed by the transition to the market economy.
1.5           As a result of these developments past gains in health are threatened. Some
health indictors have shown signs of reversal. There has been a major resurgence of malaria in
the mountainous regions and areas bordering Cambodia. Malnutrition rates in Viet Nam are
significantly higher than would be expected, rates higher than any other low-income country in
South and Southeast Asia, except Bangladesh and possibly Myanmar. There is also evidence
that the health gains of the past have been unevenly distributed. There are wide disparities in
health, population and nutrition indicators across regions and provinces and between urban
and rural areas.
2
Organization of the Health System
1.6           Central Level. Health services in Viet Nam are organized along a four-tiered
system. At the apex is the Ministry of Health, which is the main authority in the health
sector. It provides overall policy guidance and technical direction for the country. It is
organized into 13 functional departments. In addition, it has specialized institutes which
provide services of a tertiary nature and referral services in various specialties.  These
institutes include the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, the National Institute
of Nutrition, and a number of other institutes responsible for research, training, and patient
care in areas such as traditional medicine, pediatrics, tuberculosis, etc. In addition, there are a
number of other ministries that provide parallel health services, such as the Ministry of
Defense. Overall there are some 33 service-providing institutions at the central level under
the MOH. It is widely recognized that there is a need to streamline the overall management of
central health services.
Viet Nam has achieved a density of service provision at all levels--including hospitals and health centers--
that far exceeds availability in most developing countries. For example, Viet Nam's ratio of commune
health centers per million population is around 170, compared with 32 in Indonesia, 63 in China and 141
in Thailand. Similarly, Vietnam's hospital bed ratio of one per 389 persons compares favorably with one
per 465 in China, 665 in Thailand and 1,743 in Indonesia.
2
Parts of this section draw from Viet Nam: Children and Women: A Situation Analysis, UNICEF, 1994.



-3-
1.7           As in many other centrally planned economies, over the years Viet Nam has
developed a number of self-contained vertical health programs, including that for malaria,
tuberculosis (TB), acute respiratory infections (ARI) control and control of diarrheal diseases
(CDD), with structures running down to the central district level. In general, the complex
structure at the central level results in unclear and overlapping institutional mandates. As
such, it is now proving inefficient in a market economy where coordination and integration
would permit greater efficiency.
1.8           Provincial Level. The provincial level is administered by the Provincial Health
Services. The Director of the Provincial Health Service oversees health activities in the
province. There is also a Center for Preventative Medicine, which manages the cold chain for
vaccine storage, provides support to the districts to perform preventative services and
maintains a range of laboratory referral services. The provinces also run provincial hospitals
and in some cases specialized hospitals. These general hospitals have facilities for care in
specialties such as surgery, obstetrics/gynecology, internal medicine, etc. Altogether there are
some 249 provincial general and specialist hospitals. Manpower at the provincial level totals
approximately 35% of the nation's total. However, in practice most of the patients cared for
at these hospitals reside in the general vicinity of the hospitals. The hospitals therefore serve
many basic curative needs that for the most part could be effectively attended to at lower
levels in the health care delivery system.
1.9           An additional function of  provincial health services is provided by the
secondary medical school.  These schools train middle level health workers for their
provinces--assistant physicians, nurses, midwives, and secondary pharmacists.
1.10          District Level. District Health Services have three components. The District
Health Office has surveillance and program management responsibilities. The Preventative
Medicine Service provides preventative services, including EPI, CDD, malaria control,
Vitamin A deficiency control, and iodine deficiency control. It also provides support to the
commune health centers to deliver these services. The District Hospital is staffed by general
practitioners, obstetricians/gynecologists, pediatricians, opthamologists, dentists and in some
cases ear, nose and throat specialists. The District Health Office and District Hospital have
recently been combined into the District Health Center (DHC).
1.11          There are some 550 district hospitals in the country, one in each district. Most
have excess bed capacity, with occupancy rates averaging only 50%.
1.12          The support that DHCs provide to lower level health services varies in quantity
and quality. Since most health resources of the district reside in the DHCs, there is a need to
improve the quality of services and focus the range of services at this level to improve the
effectiveness of these facilities as a first referral facility.
1.13          Under the DHC is a hybrid facility, the Intercommunal Poly-clinic (ICP), that
in theory is to serve some three to six communes. ICPs were intended to provide basic
services at a higher level of sophistication than commune health centers (CHCs), the lowest
level facilities. ICPs were to take referrals and give other back-up services and training to
CHCs. In practice most have not fulfilled these roles and the Government is re-examining
their future.



-4-
1.14         Commune Level. Commune Health Centers (CHCs) are the unit of service
delivery at the commune level.  There is a wide network of CHCs and some 93%  of
communes have CHCs. The remaining communes, "white communes," are to be provided
with CHCs over the next three years. CHCs employ some 23% of all health workers. In
theory, each CHC is staffed by 3-5 CHC workers, comprised of at least one assistant doctor
trained for three years and a nurse midwife trained for two years. In practice this is often not
the case. The major reason for this stems from the collapse of the now largely defunct rural
cooperatives that used to fund the operation of CHCs and, most importantly, staff salaries.
This loss of revenue, combined with the pressures on public health expenditures since the late
1980s, have resulted in the deterioration of equipment and facilities, leading to facilities that
are often run down and lacking in the most basic equipment and drugs. Many CHC workers
are said to be working only a few hours a day in order to supplement their salaries through
other means. In recognition of this dilemma, Government decided in 1994 to phase in the
financing of CHC staff salaries by the state health budget over a three year period.
1.15         Each commune consists of hamlets and villages. A previously existing health
worker, the brigade nurse, provided health care for local people prior to 1986. However, with
the dismantling of production brigades, this household level outreach system largely
disappeared.
1.16         Supervision. Given the tiered nature of the health system described above,
supervision is meant to take place from the central to provincial level, from provincial to the
district level, etc. Two major constraints largely prevent this. One is lack of resources--
transportation, travel allowances, etc. The other is lack of good training in proper supervision
procedures. Most supervision does not examine the quality of care, facilities, record keeping
etc., nor are workers advised, commended or reprimanded as appropriate.
1.17         Private Health Care. Doctors have been allowed to practice privately since
1989, either using public facilities after hours or, increasingly, out of their own homes or in
small privately-owned clinics. An important group of private practitioners is retired health
workers who have elected to take up private practice. While the extent of private practice is
increasing, there are no reliable estimates of the numbers involved, especially for rural areas.
This is compounded by the lack of clear official distinctions regarding what is considered
private and what is public. The lack of adequate regulations governing private practice,
which can ensure that medical standards are set and enforced, is of concern to the
Government. It also inhibits those physicians who wish to expand their private practice but
are unsure of what the rules are that might impact on this expansion.
1.18         The private sector is most visible in private pharmacies, whose numbers have
increased dramatically since 1989. As noted in Section C below, private sales of drugs
account for the bulk of household payments for medical care.
Human Resource Constraints
1.19         While, as noted above, Viet Nam has high health worker per capita ratios
relative to many other low-income countries, CHC workers constitute only about 23% of the
total health work force. This percentage is less than optimal given that an overwhelming
majority of the health problems are still infectious and parasitic diseases that could be tackled



-5-
at the CHC level. Because of their wider availability and better distribution, people are more
likely to consult CHCs than any other level of public care. Thus, the need for ensuring that
CHCs are staffed with well-trained and highly motivated staff. A particular need is in the area
of maternal care, especially trained midwives. Most assistant physicians are male. Women are
more likely to seek help from female health workers, especially for ante-natal examinations
and delivery. Of the total workers in the sector, only about 14,000 are secondary or
elementary midwives.  These numbers are not adequate for the estimated 18.5 million
Vietnamese women of childbearing age.
1.20         Training. Training is carried out in eight medical and pharmaceutical schools,
plus 25 secondary schools. The eight medical schools produce some 2,000 graduates each
year. About two-thirds of all doctors are trained at Hanoi Medical School, the oldest and
most prestigious in the country. Quantity of training, at least at the physician level, is less of
an issue than is quality and orientation. Community diagnosis and management of health
services receive only minimal attention. Epidemiological approaches to addressing health
problems in a community are needed in all health training programs.
1.21         Secondary medical schools, which train middle level health workers, are in
need of improvements in both facilities and curriculum. The training is mainly didactic and
for the most part does not incorporate modem client-centered, interactive methods, that are
skills-based, problem-oriented (as opposed to focusing on topics or programs), locally-
adapted and experience-tested.
Information Needs
1.22         A major impediment to more rational planning for progress in the sector is the
lack of reliable information on a range of issues. Most sources of data do not agree on the
magnitude of health problems and status. Thus, there are often significant differences between
data sources (e.g., MOH, census data, the Demographic and Health Survey) on such statistics
as the IMR. There is usually no disaggregated data to indicate the size of problems for each
disease within the general population statistics. In addition, there is a lack of accurate,
population based information essential for policy decisions that need to be made in order to
rapidly reorient the sector towards more market economy approaches.   For example,
Government lacks information on price, accessibility and quality of the available public and
private medical care. It does not have reliable figures on health care utilization, particularly as
this relates to socio-economic status. Without such information, it will be difficult to devise
effective market oriented policies that can move the sector forward but that can also respond
to the Government's traditional concern with equity.
Current Health and Nutrition Status
1.23         Viet Nam has a relatively low average infant mortality rate (around 46 per
1,000 live births in 1991) and high average life expectancy (67). Major causes of child
3
A description of the population subsector is found in Staff Appraisal Report 14966 VN, which
describes IDA's Population and Family Health Project, a companion project to the National
Health Support Project.



-6-
mortality include malaria, ARI, diarrheal disease, neonatal tetanus and measles. It is estimated
that ARI (33%) and diarrhea (25%) account for over half of all infant deaths. Under-five
mortality is estimated to be about 81/1,000 live births (1991), reflecting the same disease
conditions as infants.
1.24         Estimates of the maternal mortality rate (MiMiR) vary greatly across the
country, averaging around 110 but rising as high as over 400 per 100,00 live births (1991).
The conditions of delivery are a major determinant of the condition of maternal and the
newborn's health. While reliable data on maternal health services are lacking, even the MOH
data indicate a declining trend in the number of women delivering at health facilities. MOH
considers that 35% of all maternal deaths are definitely preventable and 53% are possibly
preventable. The avoidable factors most often include delay in treatment, delay in referral,
delay in diagnosis, incorrect treatment or diagnosis and lack of transport, blood or drugs.
1.25         Viet Nam has embarked on a plan to achieve important primary health care
goals in five areas by the year 2,000: 85% UCI coverage; polio eradication; neonatal tetanus
elimination; reduction of measles morbidity by 90% and mortality by 95%; and 85% of all
diarrhea episodes to receive oral rehydration therapy plus continued feeding.  Substantial
progress has been made in meeting each of these targets with neonatal tetanus elimination
being the least successful in large part due to the lack of access to good maternal health care
during pregnancy and delivery at CHCs.
1.26         Despite the progress cited above, relative to other developing countries, Viet
Nam still resembles a typical low-income country in its disease profile, with preventable
communicable diseases being the leading causes of mortality and morbidity, among adults and
children. Malaria, followed by diarrhea and respiratory infections account for the majority of
reported illnesses, while tuberculosis, malaria, diarrhea and acute respiratory infections (ARI)
are the leading causes of mortality.
1.27         Malaria has had a resurgence in recent years with the number of deaths
reaching 4,646 in 1991, the highest ever recorded. This worsening of the situation was
primarily due to the under-financing of the National Malaria Control Program (NMCP) and
was compounded by the changing epidemiological situation, serious problems of resistance to
drugs and decline in general health services. Although mortality has been steadily reduced in
the past two years, the risk of malaria continues to be a fundamental threat for about 35
million Vietnamese.
1.28         Tuberculosis is a less dramatic and visible disease in Viet Nam, though it is the
second major public health problem following malaria. Annually, more than 50,000 new
infectious cases occur, most of whom would die without proper treatment. Moreover, these
patients infect annually more than one million Vietnamese citizens. With systematic treatment
it is now not only possible to prevent the mortality caused by tuberculosis but also, and most
importantly, to reduce transmission of the disease. This would result in fewer new cases per
year, and such a gain in tuberculosis control is long-term.
1.29         HIV/AIDS is an increasing health concem in Viet Nam. As of November
1994, nearly 2,000 HIV infected persons had been reported since the first reported case in
1991. Altogether 22 provinces have reported HIV, with a concentration in provinces in the



-7-
South. Using different scenarios projected annual AIDS cases by the year 2,000 range from
4,000 to 11,000. Government established the National AIDS Committee (NAC) in 1990 with
representation from ten ministries and four mass organizations. It is currently chaired by a
Vice Prime Minister. Provincially there is replication of the NAC. UNDP has taken the lead
in an effort to coordinate external assistance for the Government's efforts. Discussions are
ongoing within the Government concerning an appropriate strategy for addressing the
HIV/AIDS threat as well as how best to mobilize and coordinate external assistance.
1.30        As noted above, Viet Nam's child malnutrition rates are extremely high.
Estimates of the prevalence of underheight for age (stunting) of children under five years are
49%; for underweight for height (wasting) 12%. The 1992-93 Viet Nam Standards Survey
(VLSS) found that for children aged 1-2, when the impact of malnutrition has its most serious
long-term consequences, one in ten children are wasted. Similarly, around three of every five
Vietnamese children in that vulnerable age group are already stunted. Low birth weights, an
outcome of intrauterine malnutrition, showed figures for 1990 and 1992 of 12% and 14%,
respectively. While inconclusive, there is some evidence to suggest that these rates have been
increasing. A 1993 nationwide MOH study of 3,062 children aged 8 to 12 from 30 schools in
provinces throughout the country indicated that 16% have severe iodine deficiency disorders;
65% have mild or moderate disorders. Anemia linked to iron deficiency is a major problem.
It is estimated that approximately half of all pregnant women are anemic. In rural areas, about
half of young children are anemic.
C. The Changing Health Sector--Sector Issues
1.31        Perhaps the greatest overall challenge facing the sector is how to respond to
current rapid change. On the one hand it confronts the problem of a relatively recent and
rapid demise in what was once a strong public health system. On the other is the challenge of
how to take advantage of the opportunities that the new market economy context offers.
1.32        Decline in the Quality of Service. The developments described earlier have led
to significant undermining of the past quality of health services. Medical and surgical
equipment in district hospitals is sparse, antiquated and barely functional in many cases. A
large proportion of commune health facilities have become dilapidated to the point of being
unusable for want of equipment and medical supplies. A significant proportion of commune
health centers have virtually no drugs or injections to dispense. Many commune level staff
have had no retraining over the last decade or two, or at most only a few days. At the same
time salaries of health personnel have declined in real terms leading to low morale and
productivity.
1.33        Changing Patterns of Health Service Utilization. The symptoms of decline in
health services are seen in a marked reduction in the utilization of health services. According
to Ministry of Health (MOH) service statistics, the number of outpatient consultations has
fallen in half since the late 1980s, from an annual rate of around 2.1 visits per capita in 1987 to
0.9 per capita in 1993. The inpatient admission rate also dropped sharply during this period,
falling from about 105 per 1,000 persons in 1987 to 68 per 1,000 in 1990; since then inpatient
utilization appears to have recovered but not to its former level. While the reliability of these
reported trends is in some doubt, given weaknesses in the official reporting system and its



-8-
inability to capture utilization of private sector services, they certainly suggest a picture of
reversal in Viet Nam's past gains in delivering health services.
1.34         The Challenges of Liberalization. In March and April of 1989, the Council of
Ministers promulgated a series of measures designed to liberalize the health sector and
mobilize new resources for the sector. These included: (a) introduction of user fees for
health care; (b) legalization of private practice; and (c) sale of drugs on the open market as
well as liberalization of the pharmaceutical industry.  Each of these developments has
presented its own challenges.
1.35         (a) User Fees.  While eager to relieve the public budget from  financing
pressures for health care, the Government is concerned about the impact of private financing
on the poor. Pricing regulations governing services rendered by public health facilities have
recently been updated with clearer guidelines on protecting access to the poor. But the actual
enforcement of these guidelines, their impact on revenues and access by the poor and their
future adjustments are still serious concerns.
1.36         (b) Privatization. Drug retailing and private professional practice have been
liberalized in order to harness private sector capacities. Private sector prices and quality are
of concern to policy makers; there is a belief that the private sector can do more in health but
policy makers are unsure how to best delineate public-private roles. That this is an important
area of concern is demonstrated by the fact that expenditures by the private sector are by far
the largest source of financing for health care. Estimates from the VLSS indicate that total
household payments for medical care amounted to some 7,500 billion dong in 1993. Around
3,000 billion dong was spent on medical care contacts in which treatment was provided by the
public sector--twice as much as the total amount of public subsidies for health. Only a small
proportion of this amount was spent on payment of fees to public providers. Rather, most of
it--2,800 billion dong--paid for drugs associated with, but often not provided as part of,
treatment in public facilities; the state budget allocates only about 60 billion dong for drugs
which are intended to be provided free of charge. Even more--4,300 billion dong--was spent
on drugs by people who sought treatment from private providers or who resorted to self-
medication. These figures suggest that drug utilization dominates health expenditure in Viet
Nam, yet the public sector plays little direct role in providing or financing it.
1.37         Taking the public and private sectors together, it is clear that the public sector
role in financing health care overall is small--the state budget paid for 16 percent of all health
expenditures in 1993. Even for important public services, private payment dominates. Thus,
public subsidies contribute only one-third of all spending associated with public hospitals, and
less than 10 percent of all spending associated with utilization of commune health centers.
These estimates show that the financing reforms introduced in 1989 have had a far-reaching
effect, transforming the provision of health care into a largely private market. This transition
presents both an opportunity and a threat to the poor. On the one hand, successful
mobilization of private resources has enabled a much higher level of access to health care to
be sustained than would have been possible with continued reliance on the severely
constrained level of budgetary financing. On the other hand, the complementary role of the
public sector remains thinly spread across all levels of curative and preventive health care,
rather than narrowly targeted at priority areas of government involvement. This means that



-9-
the poor face lower quality and higher prices for basic health care at public facilities than they
would if public resources were better targeted.
1.38         c) Pharmaceutical Sector. Prior to economic liberalization, the pharmaceutical
sector was tightly controlled to serve the well defined needs of the socialized health service
delivery system. However, with opening of the economy, there has been rapid growth in the
number of entities importing and distributing drugs in both the public and private sector. As
indicated in the sectoral analysis above, self-medication without medical consultation is now
the norm. The previous system of oversight was not set up to handle the current massive
influx of drugs and the situation is now largely out of the authorities' control. Given the
potential detrimental health impacts of this situation, including already documented cases of
increased drug resistance, there is an urgent need for the formulation and effective
implementation of a national drug policy.  SIDA is providing resources to support the
Government's effort in this area. IDA must seek to ensure that its investments in the sector
complement and further progress in this important endeavor.
4
1.39         Public Expenditures for Health.  A notable feature of the fiscal adjustment of
1990-91 was that social sector spending was protected relative to other sectors.  These
increases offset the compression in overall government spending so that real expenditures per
capita actually increased. However, the impact of public expenditures depends not only on
how much is spent but also where it is spent--to what extent are these expenditures directed to
those regions and provinces with large concentrations of poverty?--and how well it is spent--
to what extent are policies implemented so that the benefits accrue to the intended groups?
1.40         These considerations are particularly important when considering their impact
on the poor. State budget expenditures for health are distributed between the central and local
governments in line with their administrative functions. The central government budget for
health subsidizes central and branch hospitals, which are administered by the Ministry of
Health and other ministries respectively, together with preventive health care, medical training
and research. Local government budgets subsidize lower levels of health care, with provincial
governments responsible for provincial hospitals and the district level subsidizing district
hospitals and, in some cases, commune health centers. Thus the central budget finances
around one-quarter of the state budget for health, while the rest is spent by the local
governments. Overall state budget expenditures on health in 1993 amounted to 1,442 billion
dong, or some 20 thousand dong per capita--about half as much as the government spent on
education. No official breakdowns of budgetary expenditure are available for local
governments but estimates, based on analysis carried out for Viet Nam: Poverty Strategy and
Assessment, suggest that almost all of this budget--90 percent--is spent on curative care in
hospitals. Only a small amount, about 3 percent, is reported to be spent on preventive health
care. An even smaller amount of the budget, 2 percent, is estimated to be spent on commune
health centers.
1.41         Reaching the poor effectively means giving priority in allocating public
resources to those health programs which the poor are more likely to use extensively.
4
These issues are elaborated in detail in Viet Nam: Poverty Strategy and Assessment, World Bank, 1995.



-10-
Targeting public expenditures efficiently requires that the poor also use a large fraction of the
subsidized health programs. Analysis based on VLSS data indicates that, aggregating across
all health sector programs, health subsidies are larger for the better off, reaching 28 thousand
dong per capita for the richest quintile or more than double the amount spent on the poor,
which averaged 11 thousand dong. In other words public subsidies for health reach the poor
less effectively than they benefit the better off This reflects the fact that most of the budget is
allocated to public programs--hospitals--which are not efficiently targeted to the poor. Only
the very small budgetary subsidy for commune health centers is strongly pro-poor.
1.42         There is a need to achieve greater consistency between the Government's
formal policies to increase the quality of health care for the poor and the actual allocation of
public health expenditures. Systematic analysis of the current public expenditure system for
health will be essential to this effort.
1.43         Donor Coordination.   External assistance for health has been steadily
increasing since the early 1 990s. MOH figures show a total of approximately US$36 million
for 1994 divided between United Nations agencies (32%); NGOs (12%); and ODA (56%).
SIDA, active since the beginning of the 1970s, has been the largest donor, followed by
UNICEF.  An increasing number of bi-lateral donors are providing funding for a range of
MOH programs such as the malaria control program, upgrading of health infrastructure in
selected districts/provinces, etc. However, the MOH has yet to develop an overall framework
for rationalizing the use of these new  resources and maximizing their impact.  As a
consequence, individual donor interests rather than the Ministry's well articulated priorities
play a major role in determining where and how external assistance is utilized. Nor is use of
these resources tracked in a systematic way to provide a clear picture of their allocation by
geographic area, program or function, types of inputs financed, etc. Thus, there is a real need
for development of a sound public investment plan based on the MOH's policy objectives that
could be used as a basis for mobilizing and coordinating donor resources.
D. Priority Actions for the Health Sector
1.44         The above description of the changing character of the sector suggests that
there are number of actions that need to be taken if the quality of health care is to improve,
particularly for the poorer segments of Vietnamese society:
1.45          (i) Revitalization of the Public Health Network. The revitalization and further
extension of grass roots health coverage is essential if the Government is to assure a basic
service outreach capacity for preventive, promotive and early treatment programs. Given
current trends, without Government intervention the commune health centers will turn to fee
for service arrangements in communes with some capacity to pay or wither away in
communes that are unable to generate enough revenues. In any case, the basic infrastructure
for delivering publicly funded programs like tuberculosis control, immunization, health
education, family planning, nutritional supplementation, disease surveillance, epidemic control,
and other community health services that are not amenable to fee for service arrangements
could be greatly weakened. As noted in the World Development Report 1993: Investing in
Health, these are among the most cost-effective interventions that governments with limited
resources can support. For example, global estimates suggest that in low-income countries



-11-
short-course chemotherapy for tuberculosis costs US$3-5 per disability-adjusted life year
(DALY) saved, making this one of the most cost-effective of all health interventions. Thus,
there is a need to secure an essential infrastructure for delivering cost-effective, public health
services with large collective benefits in which market mechanisms are known to fail. This is
distinguished from health care that benefits primarily individuals for which markets work more
effectively.
1.46         It is important to emphasize that the above effort should not be one that seeks
to restore the commune health system to its former status as an all-purpose health service unit.
CHCs as an integrated preventative, promotive, curative and supervisory facility may have
been appropriate during the socialized system. However, conditions have greatly changed.
Communes are no longer an organized production unit generating lots of collective resources.
Moreover, there are changes in the demand for health care services. People are seeking
higher quality care, or at least perceived higher quality care, and thus some are going to
private practitioners, drugstores or directly to hospitals. Thus, CHCs need to emphasize as
their primary role the provision of preventative, promotive and community health services that
people may not be willing or able to pay for but that Government wants to assure.
1.47         (ii) Support for National Communicable Disease Control Programs. Within
the general area of improving public health services, there is a particular need to focus scarce
public resources on the control of malaria, tuberculosis and acute respiratory infections, which
are leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the country. Together these diseases pose a
heavy burden on the health of the population and a substantial drain on economic resources.
Their control, because of its public goods nature, is necessarily in the public domain forming
an essential part of public health activities. However, support for these national programs
needs to be closely linked to the strengthening of CHCs, and DHCs, which are the critical
links in the grass roots health system for achieving communicable disease control program
success.
1.48         (iii)  Strengthening Institutional Capacity for Policy Analysis. The analysis
presented in section C above suggests that Viet Nam's rapid shift to a market economy has
left the MOH and related Government agencies poorly-equipped to confront the urgent
planning and policy challenges presented by the new market economy context. While there
are a number of institutional issues to be addressed--future manpower training, reorganization
of the public health service, etc.--, two would seem particularly urgent. The first is increased
capacity to undertake public expenditure analysis. As noted in the sectoral analysis above, the
Government wishes to substantially improve the way public funds for health are mobilized,
allocated and used, so as to improve the overall quality and coverage of health services,
reduce major public health problems and adequately meet the particular health needs of the
poor. To achieve these aims, it must improve significantly its capacity for public investment
planning in health in order to know where its resources for health come from, how they are
allocated, how they are spent, and what outputs are produced.
1.49         The second major institutional challenge has to do with improving Government
capacity to mobilize private financing for health. As also noted above, private expenditures
make up the large bulk of total expenditures for health. Given this, the Government would
like to mobilize private financing for health as well as private capacities for producing health



-12-
services in ways that: (a) sustain the increases in overall levels of resources made available by
the growing economy for meeting the health needs of the country; (b) relieve the public
burden from financing pressures due to increased demand for higher quality personal care by
those with the means to pay; and (c) achieve some degree of cross-subsidization of the poor
by the rich in the latteres payments for use of publicly-provided health services. However, the
MOH needs to increase its capacity to provide advice to the Government on how to achieve
these objectives.
1.50         The above three areas for action are arguably the most important ones that
need to be acted upon to achieve significant progress in the health sector. The project set out
in Chapter 2 builds on these three areas for its basic design.
E. Strategy for Sector Development
1.51         The health sector in Viet Nam today is a blend of overlapping approaches to
health policy, financing, management and delivery of services. These approaches stem from
various sources, including socialist principles of equity and predominant state responsibility, a
market-oriented view of a pluralist health system financed by user contributions, and
internationally prevalent concepts for improving health care in developing countries such as
Primary Health Care, Health For All, etc. The 1992 constitution marked a new direction,
however, by stating that health is no longer guaranteed by the state but is still a basic right,
reflecting the withdrawal of the state as the sole provider of health care. It commits the
Government to certain basic health programs but also accepts alternative contributions to
health care.
1.52         The current MOH formal health sector strategy was articulated in its 1992
"Strategy for Health for All by the Year 2000 and Strategic Health Plan for the Period 1990-
1995 in Vietnam". The strategy emphasizes nine health strategies for the pursuit of health for
all, e.g., early prevention, comprehensive health care, etc. A number of National Programs
have been developed to address the priority health problems, e.g., Strengthening the Primary
Health Care Network, Program for Goiter Control, etc. Each of the national programs is
centrally administered through a department of the Ministry of Health and some receive major
funding from a donor, e.g., EPI from UNICEF. While these various programs represent a
range of important approaches to basic health problems, many of them reflecting donor
concerns, they do not collectively constitute a fully coherent and consistent approach to the
problems of the sector. In part this reflects the conflict between an economically-driven
requirement to reduce health expenditures and a political commitment to maintain or expand
coverage. As a result, the priorities and support programs are sometimes only partly related
to the question of financing and affordability.  Sometimes this also leads to selective
implementation of national programs in donor-funded areas only. The Ministry recognizes
this lack of consistency in approaches and is seeking, through various mechanisms, to
formulate a more analytically grounded and consistent overall health sector strategy. The
strategy is currently being revised. Initial draft formulations of this strategy emphasize, among
other things, the importance of diversifying the provision of health care by encouraging an
increased role for the private sector, and reiterate the Government's strong commitment to
achieving improvements in primary health care in the poorer regions of Viet Nam.



-13-
F. Bank Experience
1.53         Lessons from Previous IDA Experience. IDA has experience with only one
social sector project in Viet Nam, the Primary Education Project (Cr. 2548-VN). Relatively
slow initial implementation progress in this project highlights the need for investments in
helping counterpart agency personnel become fully familiar with IDA procedures such as
procurement. However, subsequent projects will clearly benefit from the knowledge that is
now accumulating in the Government about these matters, e.g., formulation of standardized
bidding documents. One other difficulty has been some resistance on the part of the
Government to allocate IDA funds for technical assistance. The availability of grant financing
in the National Health Support Project should help to overcome this difficulty
1.54         Country Assistance Strategy. IDA's goal in Viet Nam as articulated in the
CAS, discussed by the Executive Directors on November 21, 1995, is to promote broad-based
economic development and to combat poverty. The project would contribute especially to the
latter objective. A key element of IDA's strategy is to assist in the provision of basic social
services to poor households. The project responds directly to the findings of IDA's Poverty
Assessment and Strategy Report, in particular that insufficient resources are being directed to
providing essential public health care in rural areas, especially in poorer provinces, while
public subsidies for health are primarily going to those most able to afford this care. The
project is also one means to further IDA's commitment to assist the Government in its
transition to a market economy by supporting the development of policies that promote cost
recovery.
1.55         Rationale for IDA Involvement. IDA initially became involved in the sector
through the production of the Population, Nutrition and Health Sector Report in 1992, which
set out the first comprehensive description and analysis of the needs of the sector. IDA's first
operational involvement will provide assistance for addressing the needs of the sector through
three distinct yet interdependent initiatives. The National Health Support Project (NHSP) will
improve grass roots health services in fifteen of the poorest provinces, support communicable
diseases programs nationwide, and strengthen basic planning and policy-formulation capacity
in MOH. Another proposed IDA-funded Population and Family Health Project will provide
similar support at the grass roots level in an additional 15 provinces, while also strengthening
capacity nationwide to foster achievement of population and family health objectives. A third
proposed Child Nutrition and Development Project would concentrate on reducing Viet
Nam's strikingly high child malnutrition rates. In addition, these projects will complement the
IDA-funded Primary Education Project by reinforcing investment in female education through
investment in women's health.
1.56         IDA is also increasingly playing a role in providing leadership for donor efforts
to build institutional capacity in MOH for policy work. The Government has indicated its
interest in having IDA play a larger role in overall donor coordination in the sector. Given
IDA's contribution in the area of policy, this should have added value for overall donor
assistance.



-14-
2.   THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
2.1          Project Objectives: The project's overall objective is to improve the health
status of the rural population of Viet Nam in the poorer areas of the country. Specifically, it
would aim to:
(a)    provide high quality, reliable primary health care on a sustainable basis in
fifteen of the poorer provinces;
(b)   reduce nationwide mortality and morbidity due to malaria, tuberculosis and
acute respiratory infections (diseases that disproportionately afflict the poor),
as well as the adverse socio-economic impacts associated with these diseases,
(c)   strengthen the capacity of the MOH  in policy-formulation, planning and
management in order to better achieve the above objectives, with a particular
focus on improving the capacity to ensure that the basic health needs of the
poor are met.
2.2          Project Scope:  To achieve its objectives, the project would consist of the
following components:
(a)    Service Delivery in the areas of  (i) infectious and communicable diseases,
(ii) maternal and child health care, (iii) family planning, (iv) reproductive health
services, (v) and other basic health care,
(b)   National Program  Assistance for the Malaria, Tuberculosis and Acute
Respiratory Infection Programs, including provision of: (i) drugs, (ii)
insecticides, (iii) transport and equipment and (iv) technical assistance, in order
to attain full coverage according to the plans for each national program;
(c)    Strengthening Institutional Health Planning and Management including support
for: (i) improving the planning and management of health public expenditures;
(ii) improving capacity to mobilize private financing for health and private
capacities for providing health care services; and (iii) generating population-
based household data and analysis to facilitate more effective and equitable
health sector planning and management.
2.3          The project implementation period would extend over seven years from 1996
to 2003.



-15-
B. Project Description
Component 1: Assistance to Commune and District Health Centers
(US$60. 1 million equivalent estimated base cost)
2.4          The Government of Viet Nam has identified improvement of the basic health
services network as one of the priorities for the health sector.  This includes general
strengthening of the grass roots health network as well as improving essential public health
services at the primary (commune health center) and first-referral level (district health center)
facilities.
2.5          The project's commune and district health center activities and inputs would
only be made available to the poorest and least developed provinces, districts and communes
that have not yet received similar kinds and levels of public health investments in the past five
years. This component would operate in fifteen provinces that were selected on the basis of
low GNP per capita, low health expenditures per capita, lower than national average health
status and above average implementation capacity on the part of the provincial health
authorities. Other factors used to choose the project provinces were availability of Bank and
other donor assistance (e.g., provinces in the Bank-assisted Population and Family Health
Project were excluded) and reasonably equitable geographical distribution across the major
regions of the country. Annex 1 lists the provinces and provides key health indicators for each.
2.6          The objective at the commune level is to enable the commune health center
(CHC) to properly perform:
.  case finding and case management in prevalent infectious and communicable
diseases such as tuberculosis and malaria;
*  appropriate quality safe motherhood and child health care including family
planning;
*  early first-contact care for common medical problems of the very poor who have
no means to pay;
*  IEC activities, epidemiological monitoring, and community mobilization for public
health promotion.
2.7          The objective at the district level is to improve district health centers (DHCs)
primarily as technical support and management command centers for commune level
public health operations. Thus, they will provide:
* technically competent field supervision of CHCs;
* adequate laboratory and other diagnostic facilities to support activities at the
commune level;
. first-referral level support in medical, surgical and obstetric services including
family planning.
2.8          In addition, the clinical credibility and effectiveness of DHCs would be
enhanced in terms of improved emergency care capabilities for management of cases common
in the community, facilities for patient transport, reliable sterile supplies and emergency
electrical power.



-16-
2.9          Inter-communal polyclinics, which are intended to provide intermediate levels
of care between commune and district health centers, would be treated by the project as either
commune or district health centers for purposes of providing basic project inputs.  This
classification will be based on the types of services a facility provides, the skills of the health
providers, distance from the next level of health care delivery and utilization rates of these
clinics.
2.10         In the selected provinces, the project would provide a package of civil works,
drugs, equipment and retraining to both commune and district health centers as part of a
public health service infrastructure development strategy of the Ministry of Health. Annex 2
sets out the overall strategy for supporting the development of this infrastructure.
Essential Drugs and Supplies
2.11         The project would provide essential drugs and basic equipment to the
commune and district health centers to enable them to deliver the above basic health services.
The list of items to be provided has been stratified to reflect requirements at different levels
within the health care infrastructure.  Lists of equipment and drugs to be supplied are
presented in Annex 3. In addition, Annex 4 sets out the guidelines that have been agreed
upon with the MOH for the financing, procurement and distribution of drugs and equipment.
The small number of essential drugs to be provided by the project were carefully chosen
because of their critical role in achieving the project's public health objectives, and are not
intended to address all, or even a major portion, of the drug needs of the community. They
are instead intended to primarily address the health needs of pregnant women and children,
and the poor. The project has been designed so that these drugs are used to benefit the
population for whom  they are intended.  At negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that it would furnish to IDA by September 30, 1996, and have an exchange of
views with IDA on, a comprehensive description of the policy and implementation guidelines
it will employ to ensure the effective implementation of: (i) cost recovery with respect to the
essential drugs to be provided by the project in those communes of project provinces where
applicable;  and (ii) providing essential drugs and medical supplies free of charge in
mountainous and remote communes in project provinces. The policy and implementation
guidelines would be reviewed by the Government and IDA each year thereafter and would be
an explicit focus of the mid-term review. The principles used to designate mountainous and
remote communes would also be provided. Also, at negotiations, an understanding was
reached on the specific logistics arrangements for handling project-financed commodities in
accordance with discussions held during appraisal as set out in Annex 4.
2.12         Commune level.  Investments in equipment would be focused on basic
instruments and devices to provide primary health services. The distribution of equipment
would be done to assure that all CHCs have a minimum standard list. Investment in drugs and
medical supplies would assure sustained availability of adequate quantities and types needed
for first contact care of minor cases, maternal and child health care, family planning, treatment
of trachoma and nutrition and growth monitoring. The actual volume of drugs and supplies
distributed would reflect the size of the population served by the CHC.



-17-
2.13         In addition, two hamlet health workers in communes in remote or mountainous
areas would be provided with short-term training and a basic medical equipment kit (see
Annex 3). The workers would report to the CHC and would provide health education and
rudimentary health services to families in selected hamlets in the commune, especially those
far from the CHC. This approach would be tested in two provinces in the first two years of
the project and, if successful, would be revised as necessary and extended to other remote or
mountainous communes in the project provinces.
2.14         District level.   Equipment would be provided to  meet the minimum
requirements for hospital-based clinical support of  implementing various national health
programs and the incremental requirements for securing a safe and functional hospital
environment.  The main equipment inputs would be equipment for services in clinical
laboratories with public health use, diagnostic X-ray, surgical and obstetric equipment,
equipment for central sterile supplies, emergency electrical power and ambulance transport.
Investments in drugs would provide those drugs necessary to complement the role of the
DHC as a first-referral facility for the commune level.
Civil Works
2.15         The project would upgrade health facilities to enable them to provide good
quality primary health care.  Different standard models would be used for renovating
commune and district health centers based on their geographical location and accessibility,
population size served, utilization rates, distance from a higher-level referral facility and staff
capacity. A set of decision rules would guide the selection of sites and the nature of civil
works investments for each facility.  In general these rules operationalize three basic
principles: a) improve the facilities that are likely to be utilized due to distance from other
facilities; b) repair these facilities only to a level necessary for their basic functions; and c) only
when the cost of repairs exceeds 60 percent of the costs of a new facility should replacement
be considered. These rules are set forth in Annex 5. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that the selection of CHCs and DHCs to be upgraded would be carried
out in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA, as described in Annexes 2 and 5.
Similarly, assurances were provided that the facilities of each commune or district that are
upgraded would be maintained in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA.
2.16         Commune health centers.  The project would ensure that CHCs have the
necessary facilities to serve five purposes: (i) a multi-purpose area for up to ten adults for
immunization sessions, health education classes, and staff meetings; (ii) an examination area
for at most two persons; (iii) a minor surgery/delivery/family planning/treatment area for at
most two persons; (iv) a post-treatment observation/recovery/patient waiting area for at most
two persons; and (v) a storage area sufficient for CHC stocks of supplies and equipment.
Electrical connections in electrified areas and a source of safe water would also be assured.
Two basic models would be supported. Model I facilities, not to exceed 70 sq. meters, would
serve as basic outpatient clinics. Model 2 facilities, not to exceed 95 sq. meters, would serve
as outpatient clinics with additional space for limited inpatient services.
2.17         District health centers. Investments in equipment would be the main rationale
for investments in civil works, i.e., civil works would be provided only up to the level and



-18-
extent required to properly accommodate and adequately operate the equipment provided. In
most cases, only those renovations required for surgical and obstetric, laboratory, radiology,
central sterile, and emergency power rooms would be supported as well as an ambulance
garage.
2.18         The number of commune health centers and district health centers eligible for
improvements under the project is 2,819 and 155, respectively.
In-service Training of Health Personnel
2.19         The project would provide training to ensure that health personnel are
competent to provide health services appropriate to different health care levels. Retraining
would be provided to staff at all CHCs and DHCs in the selected provinces. In-service
training would be conducted in five modules that would be developed and pre-tested at the
central level (see Annex 6). The first two modules would be designed specifically for CHC
staff and the latter three would address the training needs of district level staff.
2.20         Commune level.  In-service training would be provided to appropriate,
regularly salaried workers of all CHCs in the selected provinces. The training would be based
on two basic modules designed specifically for these workers. Module 1 would cover
Maternal and Neonatal Care and Family Planning. Module 2 would cover Endemic Disease
Control.  The modules would be designed to incorporate technical protocols for new
interventions that are introduced under the project (e.g., injectables, implants, etc.). The
training activities would be timed to take place during the distribution of the equipment and
drugs provided by the project.
2.21         District level. In-service training would be provided to appropriate staff of all
DHCs. The training would be conducted in three modules. Module 3 would be for training in
equipment operation and maintenance and would cover four areas--radiology, laboratory
technology, sterile supplies and operating theater management. Module 4 would train district
level staff in providing technical and managerial supervision of commune level operations.
Module 5 would train district health managers and department heads in the management of
hospital operations and district health center operations.
2.22         Training of CHC staff would take place at provincial secondary medical
schools. Central schools such as the School of Public Heath would be used as the sites for
district level training. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that an
action plan for this, and other training programs of the project, would be provided to IDA
for review and comments by June 30, 1996.
Component 2: Assistance to Three Priority National Programs
(US$51.4 million equivalent estimated base cost)
2.23        The project would support three priority national health programs, namely,
Malaria, Tuberculosis (TB) and Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI), the policies and general
operations of which are technically sound. These three diseases have been selected by the
Government because communicable and infectious diseases still pose an intolerable burden on



-19-
the health of the population and a substantial drain on economic resources. Furthermore, their
control is clearly in the public domain because of the public goods nature of such control. The
burden of disease falls disproportionately on the poor. Lastly, they have been selected because
cost-effective measures are available to address these diseases.
2.24         The project would provide funding where current available resources are in
varying degrees short of what are needed to meet assigned national targets. Since project
assistance would cover the estimated total resource gaps in these programs, the geographic
coverage of this assistance is effectively nationwide. The component would be implemented
by the National Institute of Malariology, Parasitology and Entomology and by the National
Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases through existing organizational channels.
Annex 7 provides further details concerning the support to be provided to these programs.
National Malaria Control Program
2.25         The aims of the National Malaria Control Program (NMCP) are to: (i) reduce
deaths due to malaria by early effective treatment, (ii) prevent malaria epidemics or at least
detect them early and control them; and (iii) apply long-term mosquito control measures to
reduce the incidence of malaria in populations at high risk. The total projected need for the
program  in the period 1995-2000 is approximately US$50 million.  The Vietnamese
Government currently invests about US$4 million per year in the NMCP. Several donors--
AusAID (Australia), Belgium, GTZ (Germany), Holland (MCNV), UNICEF, WVO and the
Red Cross--together are expected to provide donations totaling about US$9.3 million for the
period 1995-2000. If national funding continues at current level, it will cover nearly 50% of
the shortfall of external funding in the period 1995-2000.
2.26         The project would support the NMCP in providing inputs to meet the needs
that are insufficiently covered by the other funders of the NMCP. This support would aim to
cover the population at high malaria risk by:
* locally effective anti-vector measures, particularly impregnated bednets;
* improved program management including better epidemiological services; and
* training, supervision, communications and program-related applied field research.
2.27         The inputs required include insecticides, equipment, means of transport,
training and technical assistance. The main thrust of this support would be to assure the
provision of a major proportion of the commodities that must be imported and a proportion of
the national training needs that require international support.
National Tuberculosis Program
2.28         The project would aim  to reduce tuberculosis incidence in the general
population as well as cure infected patients through attainment of a case finding rate of 70%
of new infectious patients, and cure 85% of all patients enrolled in chemotherapy. The main
inputs in this sub-component would be drugs, equipment, means of transport, training and
operations support. An integral part of the program approach would be careful patient
follow-up to mitigate the risk of insufficient patient compliance.



-20-
Acute Respiratory Infections Program
2.29        The national ARI program aims to extend coverage to 100% of children under
five by the year 1999. At present, it reaches only half the children in need. The program
emphasizes the training of health workers and supply of appropriate antibiotics in
standardizing case management in health facilities, particularly at the commune and district
levels. The project would finance drug treatment costs of ARI cases as well as support
implementation of the case management approach on a scale necessary to cover gaps in the
national program. These inputs would complement the large bulk of assistance provided by
UNICEF to the ARI program to cover most development and program costs.
Component 3: Strengthening Institutional Health Planning and Management in
the Ministry of Health
(US$4.7 million equivalent estimated base cost)
2.30        This component is directed at improving the beneficial impact of policies
affecting the health sector. It would expand and enrich the Government's knowledge about
the management of resources for health in the current rapidly changing market economy
context. In a poor country like Viet Nam where resources are scarce for all, resources are
even scarcer for the poor. Thus, Component 3 is a strategic investment in attaining better
health for the poor. It would assist in promoting health among the most vulnerable groups by
enhancing the capacity of MOH to use several important health sector planning and
management tools.
Sub-component 1: Improving the Planning and Management of Public Expenditures for
Health
2.31        Given the large magnitude of public funds spent for health, better management
of public expenditures for health is recognized as a high priority in order to achieve adequate
quality, coverage and utilization of public health services and achieve significant reductions in
the country's major public health problems.
2.32        This sub-component would achieve two specific objectives:
(i) Improve the budgeting, accounting and operational reporting systems of
central MOH hospitals and institutes, provincial health departments and the
central MOH.   The following activities would be undertaken to achieve this
objective: (a) The MOH, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, would review
policies and practices in financial accounting, budget preparation and execution, and
operations reporting at central hospitals and institutes, provincial health departments
and the central MOH; (b) pilot demonstration projects would be conducted at selected
institutions to install the government-approved budgeting, accounting and operations
reporting system; (c) the recommendations that come out of this pilot experience
would be presented for wider implementation and would result in the production of an
annual report on the sources and uses of funds in the public health sector.



-21-
(ii) Prepare a public investment plan for the health sector that defines the
priorities and  levels of public investments to  be financed  from  general
government revenues and donor assistance.  The MOH, in consultation with
Ministry of Planning and Investment, would: (a) prepare cost estimates and projections
to meet national goals and targets; (b) monitor donor assistance; (c) prepare a public
investment plan for the health sector; and (d) use data from a household survey on
health and expenditures to prepare a report on the actual distribution of public
expenditures for health.
2.33         The main inputs to this sub-component would be funding of local service
contracts, equipment, foreign and local technical assistance, training, fellowships and
operations support.
Sub-component 2: Mobilizing Private Financing for Health
2.34         Available data indicates that in 1993 households spent US$750 million for
health, accounting for as much as 84% of total national expenditures on health. This money
went mainly toward expenditures on drugs associated with treatment obtained from public
facilities, drugs for self-medication, and fees and drug costs associated with private providers.
Though such private expenditures for health allow for a wider variety of choices for the client
and assist the expansion of the health sector, there are serious concerns regarding the
effectiveness of much of this spending as well as the adverse effect on the poor due to this
increased reliance on private financing for health.
2.35         In order to assist the Government to better mobilize and utilize private
financing of health, this sub-component is directed to meet two specific objectives:
(i) Improve the system of setting, charging and collecting prices for publicly
provided health services to better protect the poor and increase revenues
available to enhance the quality and quantity of these services. The MOH and
other relevant agencies would: (a) prepare a technical framework for setting prices in
the public health sector and monitoring responses to these prices; (b) establish a
system of sentinel sites for gathering data on levels and trends of key provider-side
parameters in the technical framework for setting prices and monitoring responses; (c)
organize a series of small-scale pilots to experiment in administering public subsidies
for medical care that protect the poor; and (d) train a corps of technical professionals
from relevant departments of MOH and other government and academic institutions in
health economics and health care financing.
(ii) Prepare proposals for further expanding private production of health
services in a manner consistent with health sector goals. The MOH and other
relevant agencies would: (a) undertake a survey of other countries' experience in
using private sector providers for health; and (b) prepare studies which review current
practices, assess the prospects for further expansion, and identify barriers and
opportunities to possible roles of the private sector.



-22-
2.36         The main inputs to this sub-component are technical assistance (both
international and local), funding of study tours and pilot studies and training.
Sub-component 3: Generating Population-based Household Data and Analysis for Health
Sector Planning and Management
2.37         Much of health sector planning and management in Viet Nam has been based
on administrative data from health facilities and small-scale surveys of communities. The
Government has recognized that it is time to lay a solid base of household survey data series
as one of the foundations for effective and equitable health planning and management. In
particular, the Government wants to invest in data gathering and analysis on the health sector
in order to: (i) enhance the technical quality of policies and plans in the sector, and (ii)
improve the effectiveness of policies and plans, particularly in terms of benefiting the poor,
through increased knowledge about interactions between the public and private sectors,
households and providers, resources and outcomes.  The sub-component is directed to
meeting two objectives:
(i) Design, plan, organize and implement the first national household health and
medical provider survey. The MOH, in consultation with the General Statistical
Office (GSO), would determine the sample frame, develop the questionnaire, recruit
and train field work staff, undertake field work and quality control, and train and equip
MOH/GSO Units involved.
(ii) Report, analyze, utilize and disseminate the data and results from the first
national household health and medical provider survey for planning and
management. The MOH, in consultation with GSO, would enter and clean the
collected data, prepare a statistical abstract and analysis, disseminate reports and
studies, and conduct workshops and seminars to discuss the findings of the survey, the
results of policy analysis and proposals for policy directions.
2.38         The main inputs to this sub-component are technical assistance (both
international and local), training (local and international), and funding of the operational costs
of the development and execution of the survey.
2.39         A detailed description of the activities to be undertaken in Component 3 is
found in the project files.



-23-
3.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Cost Estimates
3.1          Summary of Project Costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated at
Vietnamese Dong 1,400.5 billion or US$127.3 million equivalent, including contingencies and
taxes. Project costs are summarized by project component in Table 3.1, and by expenditure
category in Table 3.2. These costs by year are provided in Annex 8.
3.2         Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance for
unforeseen physical additions at 3% of base costs (US$3.0 million equivalent) and for inflation
at 7% of base costs (US$8.2 million equivalent), based on the standard Bank-wide and
regional guidelines on inflation factors.
3.3         Taxes and Duties: The Government has made a decision that all Bank-financed
projects are subject to customs duties and taxes. Project cost estimates therefore include
customs duties for equipment and taxes for civil works (US$3.5 million equivalent), which
would be fully financed by the Govemment. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
to IDA that it will make available to MOH a budget allocation, as part of counterpart funds, to
cover the cost of these customs duties and taxes.  Project cost estimates for technical
assistance and training have been calculated net of taxes. The Government would also cover
from its own resources any taxes related to consultancy services.
3.4         Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are
estimated at about 65% of base project costs. The estimated foreign exchange component for
the various expenditure categories are as follows: civil works, 30%; furniture and equipment
89%; drugs, 95%; foreign technical assistance, 90%; local technical assistance, 10%; overseas
training, 95%; local training, 20%; program support, 10%; and maintenance, 20%.
3.5         Incremental Recurrent Costs. The investments under the project targeted at
strengthening existing health service facilities at the grass roots level would not add a major
burden in terms of recurrent costs. The disease control component would actually reduce
recurrent costs in the long term by decreasing the recurrent costs associated with
communicable disease control.  However, two types of incremental recurrent costs are
included in the total project costs. The first type is maintenance and logistics costs--the
maintenance of civil works (4.5% of the base cost of civil works) and maintenance of
equipment (8.1% of the base costs of equipment). These maintenance costs of US$4.5 million
(including contingencies) over the seven year project period would be fully financed by the
Government.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that an appropriate budget for
maintenance would be made available for the Provincial Project Implementation Units. The
logistics cost (2% of baseline costs, amounting to US$2.9 million including contingencies) for
storing and distributing equipment and drugs would also be fully financed by the Government.
The second type of incremental recurrent costs is program support needed during the life of
the project. Part of such costs are travel accommodation, office supplies and communications
expenses, amounting to US$7.3 million including contingencies needed, for carrying out



-24-
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
% Total
(Dona Billion)        fUSS Million)      Base
Local Foreian  Total  Local Foreian Total  Costs
A. Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services
1. District Level Services                     63.7   191.5  255.2   5.8    17.4  23.2         20
2. Commune Level Services                      149.9   192.1  342.0  13.6    17.5  31.1        27
3. Re-training of Local Health Workers         34.7    21.7   56.3   3.2        2.0   5.1       4
4. Project Supervision                          3.8      3.6    7.3   0.3       0.3   0.7       1
Subtotal Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services    252.1   408.8  660.9  22.9    37.2  60.1   52
B. Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI Programs
1. Assistance to National TB Program           46.7   205.7  252.4   4.2    18.7  22.9         20
2. Assistance to National Malaria Program      63.2   205.2  268.4   5.7    18.7  24.4         21
3. Assistance to National ARI Program           8.1    36.4   44.5   0.7        3.3   4.0       3
Subtotal Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI Programs  118.0   447.3  565.3  10.7    40.7  51.4       44
C. Strengthen MOH's Planning & Management
1. Public Expenditure Review                    3.5      3.1    6.6   0.3      0.3   0.6        1
2. Mobilizing Private Finance for Health        4.8      3.9    8.8   0.4       0.4   0.8       1
3. National Health Survey                       18.2    18.4   36.6   1.7       1.7   3.3       3
Subtotal Strengthen MOH's Planning & Management    26.5    25.4   51.9   2.4      2.3   4.7       4
Total BASEUNE COSTS                              396.6   881.5 1,278.0  36.1    80.1  116.2      100
Physical Contingencies                         12.4    20.2   32.6   1.1        1.8   3.0       3
Pnce Contingencies                             61.5    28.4   89.9   5.6        2.6   8.2       7
Total PROJECT COSTS                              470.5   930.0 1,400.5  42.8    84.5 127.3       110
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
%     % Total
(Dona Billion)          (US$ Million)     Foreign    Base
Local Foreiqn  Total  Local Foreign  Totai Exchance  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                 135.5    58.1   193.6  12.3       5.3  17.6        30       15
B. Equipment                    37.6   290.4  328.0   3.4    26.4  29.8           89       26
D. Drugs                        24.8   471.6  496.4   2.3    42.9  45.1           95       39
E. Training
Overseas Training              0.4      6.7    7.1   0.0       0.6   0.6        95        1
Local Training                35.8     8.9   44.7   3.3        0.8   4.1        20        3
Subtotal Training               36.1     15.6   51.8   3.3        1.4   4.7       30        4
F. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance   2.8    24.9   27.7   0.3        2.3   2.5        90        2
Local Technical Assistance    15.2      1.7   16.9   1.4       0.2   1.5        10        1
Subtotal Technical Assistance   18.0    26.6    44.6    1.6       2.4   4.1       60        3
G. Operational Research         21.3      2.4   23.7   1.9       0.2   2.2        10        2
Total Investment Costs           273.3   864.7 1,137.9  24.8    78.6 103.4          76       89
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Program Support              71.8      7.1    78.9   6.5      0.6   7.2         9        6
B. Maintenance for Civil Works   7.3      1.8    9.1   0.7       0.2   0.8        20        1
C. Maintenance for Equipment    21.4      5.4   26.8   1.9       0.5   2.4        20        2
D. Logistics                    22.8      2.5    25.4   2.1      0.2   2.3        10        2
Total Recurrent Costs            123.3    16.8   1 40.1   11.2      1.5  12.7        12      11
Total BASELINE COSTS             396.6   881.5 1,278.0  36.1    80.1  116.2          69      100
Physical Contingencies          12.4    20.2    32.6   1.1       1.8   3.0        62        3
Price Contingencies             61.5    28.4   89.9   5.6        2.6   8.2        32        7
Total PROJECT COSTS              470.5   930.0 1,400.5  42.8    84.5 127.3           66      110



-25-
innovative   activities  and   undertaking   close   monitoring   during   implementation.                           The
Government will finance 47% of the total program support cost.
B. Financing
3.6                The  estimated  total project cost of US$127.3  million  equivalent,  including
taxes, or US$123.8 million, excluding taxes, would be financed by:
(a) a local contribution of US$17.0 million equivalent, including duties and taxes,
or 13.4% of total cost, from the Government;
(b) an IDA Credit of SDR 68 million (US$101.2 million equivalent), or 79.5% of
total cost net of taxes;
(c) a  cofinancing  contribution  of US$4.7  million  equivalent, from   the  Swedish
International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) for Component 3,
which represents 3.7% of total cost net of taxes, and;
(d) a cofinancing contribution  of US$4.3  million equivalent, from  the Netherlands
Government for the retraining subcomponent of Component 1, which
represents 3.4% of total cost net of taxes.
3.7                The project financing plan by expenditure category is summarized in Table 3.3.
The financing plan by component is given in Annex 8.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Intemational
Viet Nam       Development
(US$ Million)                     Government        Associaton           SIDA          Netherlands         Total        Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %                      Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                       2.2    10.0     20.0   90.0          -       -        -       -     22.3    17.5        0.7
B. Equipment                         2.8     8.7     28.1    87.4      0.8     2.4       0.5     1.6     32.2    25.3        2.8
D. Drugs                             0.0       -     46.6  100.0          -       -        -       -     46.6   36.6           -
E. Training
Overseas Training                 0.0        -      0.4    53.4      0.3   39.1        0.1     7.5      0.7     0.5
Local Training                     1.2   27.0       0.5    10.6      0.0    0.6        2.7   61.8       4.3     3.4
Subtotal Training                    1.2    23.4      0.8    16.3       0.3    5.7       2.7    54.6      5.0     3.9
F. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance      0.0        -      1.2   44.6       1.2   45.4        0.3    10.0      2.7    2.1
Local Technical Assistance        0.0        -      0.3   20.0       0.8   47.6       0.5    32.5       1.6     1.3
Subtotal Technical Assistance        0.0       -      1.5   35.3       2.0   46.2        0.8    18.4      4.3     3.3
G. Operational Research              0.0       -      0.8   34.6        1.5   65.4         -       -      2.3     1.8
Total Investment Costs                 6.2     5.5     97.9   86.9        4.5     4.0      4.0     3.6    112.6    88.5        3.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Program Support                   3.4    47.0      3.3   45.7        0.2     2.7      0.3     4.6      7.3     5.7          -
B. Maintenance for Civil Works       1.2  100.0         -       -         -       -        -       -      1.2    0.9
C. Maintenance for Equipment         3.3   100.0        -       -         -       -        -       -      3.3     2.6
D. Logistics                         2.9   100.0        -       -        -       -         -       -      2.9     2.3
Total RecurrentCosts                  10.8   73.7       3.3   22.7        0.2     1.4      0.3     2.3     14.7    11.5
Total Disbursement                    17.0   13.4    101.2   79.5         4.7     3.7      4.3     3.4    127.3  100.0         3.5



-26-
3.8             SIDA and the Netherlands Government have requested that IDA administer the
grant financing they will make available.
3.9             Project Preparation Financing.   Funds from  the Japan  Policy  and Human
Resource Development Fund have been used for project preparation. The amount of funds
provided total Yen 76.8 million. These funds have been used to prepare specific activities
designed to lead to quick implementation, such as: (i) architectural designs and infrastructure
surveys for rehabilitation of commune and district health centers; (ii) assessment of training
needs; iii) provincial planning workshops to define public health service delivery infrastructure
needs; (iv) design of project performance indicators; and (v) policy consultations and other
planning activities essential to early initiation of the national health survey.
C. Procurement
3.10            The project's procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Methods
Procurement Elements (US$ million)           ICB       NCB       Other      NBF       Total
Civil Works                                            18.5       3.7                 22.2
(16.6)    (3.4)                (20.0)
Goods
a. Equipment & Materials                     22.4       7.9       0.6       1.3       32.2
(20.1)    (7.4)     (0.6)                (28.1)
b. Drugs & Pharmaceuticals                   46.6                                     46.6
(46.6)                                   (46.6)
Training & Technical Assistance
a. Training                                                       0.8       4.2        5.0
(0.8)               (0.8)
b. Technical Assistance                                           2.4       4.3        6.6
(2.4)               (2.4)
Program Support                                                   4.8       2.5        7.3
(3.3)               (3.3)
Maintenance                                                                 4.5        4.5
Logistics                                                                   2.9        2.9
Total                                        69.0      26.4      12.3       19.7      127.3
(66.7)    (24.0)    (10.5)               (101.2)
Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by IDA.
Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.
"Other' includes shopping and consultancy services.
"NBF": Not Bank Financed.



-27-
3.11        Procurement for works, goods and services to be financed by the IDA credit
would be as follows:
(a) Civil Works: The civil works carried out under the project would generally be small and
simple, consisting primarily of repair and/or renovation of the existing buildings at the district
and commune level, and would be dispersed throughout the project provinces. Owing to the
nature and size of these works, National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable
to the Bank, would be appropriate to use since no foreign contractors are likely to be
interested in bidding for them. The total estimated cost of these works is US$22.2 million
including contingencies. The Ministry of Health would group these works in suitable packages
so as to minimize the number of contracts with a view to managing the NCB efficiently. Up to
a total amount of US$3.7 million, civil works would be carried out by awarding relatively small
contracts, each valued at about US$30,000, by obtaining at least three quotations from local
contractors. This would apply in remote areas where packaging would not be possible so as to
follow NCB procedures. The MOH would draft the bidding documents following the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts), January 1995.
(b) Goods (Equipment. Furniture, Vehicles, Drugs and Medical Supplies):  Equipment and
materials are estimated to cost US$32.2 million including contingencies. Of this amount,
equipment costing US$22.4 million would be procured by International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures; and US$8 million, with an estimated cost of US$100,000 equivalent or less
per contract, may be procured   by National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. This would include some hospital equipment and
furniture.   However, surgical equipment (estimated cost of US$5 million), owing to its
specific end-user needs and functional usage, would be procured by NCB as the Vietnamese
experience in the past indicates that it would not be useful to use ICB since no foreign supplier
manufactures them in the smaller sizes required to meet the needs of the country (differences in
anthropometric measurements). Small items or group of items costing less than US$25,000
per contract, subject to an aggregate amount of US$0.6 million, would be procured by prudent
shopping, requiring quotations from  at least three reputable suppliers.  All drugs and
pharmaceuticals (estimated cost of US$46.6 million including contingencies) would be
procured by ICB procedures. Under ICB, domestic manufacturers would be eligible for a
margin of preference in bids evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f costs of the competing imports or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. MOH would prepare the bidding documents
following: (a) the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods, January
1995 for procurement of equipment and materials, and (b) the Bank's Standard Bidding
Document for Procurement of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, September 1993 (as amended
to reflect the changes as per the Bank's Guidelines, January 1995 for procuring drugs and
pharmaceuticals).
(c) Training and Technical Assistance:  This includes training (US$5.2 million including
contingencies and excluding taxes), technical assistance (US$4.3 million including
contingencies and excluding taxes), and operational research (US$2.3 million including
contingencies and excluding taxes) to be carried out by the provincial secondary medical
schools or national institutes, which are the sole-sources either in a particular technical field, or
in a particular province. MOH would award these assignments, with the exception of technical
assistance, to these agencies, and enter into "responsibility contracts" with them to carry out



-28-
the assignments. However, before entrusting these assignments, MOH would provide the
Bank with its standard contract for comment to ensure that these contracts comply with the
Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency. MOH also would need to prepare a letter of invitation and the contract for
the technical assistance activity for the Bank's comment following the Bank's Standard Form
of Contractfor Consulting Services, June 1995
3.12        Procurement Review. All civil works contracts in excess of US$150,000
(including the first two civil works contracts regardless of their respective estimated cost), all
goods contracts in excess of US$150,000 and all consulting contracts in excess of US$100,000
for firms (US$50,000 for individuals) would be subject to prior review by the Bank. With
respect to all consulting contracts, irrespective of value, prior review will be required for: (a)
terms of reference; (b) single source contracts regardless of value; (c) all consultant contracts
and assignments of a critical nature (because of environmental safety or public health
considerations) regardless of value; and (d) contract amendments valued at more than
US$100,000 for firms (US$50,000 for individuals), or those that raise the total contract value
to more than US$100,000 for firms (US$50,000 for individuals). This will allow prior review
for approximately 80% of the works and goods procured under the project.
3.13        MOH would use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents as follows: (a)
Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts), January 1995 and as adapted to Viet Nam's local
requirements to carry out NCB procurement; (b) Procurement of Goods, January 1995 for
materials and equipment; (c) Procurement of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, September 1993
as amended to reflect the changes as per the Bank's Guidelines of January 1995; and (d)
Standard Form of Contract for Consulting Services, June 1995. Accordingly, MOH would
draft and submit bidding documents to the Bank by September 1995 for its review and
approval so that it can use these documents during the implementation of the project and in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995).
D. Disbursement
3.14        The proposed IDA Credit of US$101.2 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of seven and a half years, with disbursements to be completed by the closing date
of September. 30, 2003. The proposed disbursement schedule, as given in Annex 9 is
considered feasible. The schedule has relatively high levels of early disbursements because of
concentrated early procurement of equipment and civil works necessary for facility upgrading.
Draft bidding documents are already finalized. The Resident Mission will provide substantial
support to the Project Management Unit (PMU) and provincial PIUs in handling procurement
and disbursement during the early implementation period. Special arrangements are also being
made by the PMU in MOH, with the help of IDA, to organize workshops on procurement and
disbursement for the national institutes and provincial health services.
3.15        Disbursements would be made against: (a) 90% of the total expenditures for
civil works; (b) 100% of c.i.f. cost for directly imported goods, including drugs (foreign
expenditures), 100% of the ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured goods, and 85%
of the other off-shelf goods procured locally; (c) 100% of the total expenditures for



-29-
consultancies and training; and (d) 70% of the total expenditures for program support.
Disbursements categories to be made against the IDA credit are summarized in Table 3.5.
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Disbursement Category                        IDA allocation  % Expenditure to be
(US$ million)   Financed by IDA
Civil Works                                       18.9      90%
Goods (including materials, equipment & drugs)   73.2       100% of foreign
expenditure & ex-
factory local
expenditure; 85% of
expenditure for off-
shelf items
Training and Technical Assistance                 3.1       100%
Program Support                                   3.3       70%
Unallocated                                       2.7       NA
Total                                           101.2
3.16         Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for
civil works contracts with a contract value of less than US$150,000, for goods contracts with
a contract value of less than US$150,000 equivalent, and consulting contracts less than
US$100,000 for firms and less than US$50,000 for individual consultants, and for training and
program support costs. All documents supporting the SOEs would be retained by the PMIU in
MOH, and made available for random sample review by IDA supervision missions. For all
contracts above these limits, full documentation would be required.
3.17         Special Accounts. A Special Account with an authorized allocation of US$3
million, based on four month's average expected expenditures, would be established in a bank
acceptable to IDA. The first withdrawal will be limited to an amount equivalent to US$1.5
million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by IDA shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of US$16 million. The PMIU at the MOH would control and operate the
Account. All the documentation for the operation of the Account would be retained in the
PMU in MOH, and made available for review by IDA. Applications for replenishment of the
Account, supported by appropriate documentation, would be monthly or whenever the account
is drawn by 20% of the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. For withdrawals outside
the Special Account (applications for direct payment or for issuance of Special Commitments),
a minimum application value of 20% of the authorized allocation would be observed.



-30-
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Organization
4.1         The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Health, with the
collaboration of the provincial health services of the fifteen provinces, including their
component district health centers and commune health centers.  Overall direction and
guidance for the project would be provided by a high level Steering Committee composed of a
senior official from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and Investment, the
National Committee for Population and Family Planning, and the State Bank of Viet Nam, in
addition to the Minister of Health.
4.2         The implementation of individual components and sub-components of the
project would be assigned to existing organizational units of the MOH and to the provincial
health services of the fifteen provincial governments in which Component 1 of the project will
operate. The appointed heads of these units, such as Institute Directors, MOH Department
Directors and Provincial Health Service Directors, would have direct responsibility for
managing the component or sub-component activities assigned to their unit as part of their
existing programs as well as their regular and official duties--see Figure 4.1 on the overall
implementation structure for the project.
4.3         Certain regular officials of the MOH and provincial health departments would
be designated as NHSP officers with specific duties that they would need to perform in
addition to and with priority over their regular and official functions. From the MOH, this
would include: the NHSP Project Director, the Lead Person for Component 1, and the Lead
Person for Component 3, among others. From the provincial health services, this would
include the Provincial Project Manager. Annex 10 sets out for each of these officials the
project responsibilities that have been discussed with MOH.
4.4         A group of regular MOH staff and contractually employed personnel would
constitute a Project Management Unit (PMU). The latter would be hired specifically for the
project and only for the duration of the need for their services. The PMU would be
established to assist the MOH and provincial health officials assigned to manage the project.
These personnel would include: the Manager of the PMU, various contractual staff of the
PMU including provincial project specialists (one per NHSP province). All these personnel
would serve the project full-time and would perform only duties related to the project. The
functions to be carried out by the PMU are detailed in Annex 10.
4.5         While an interim PMU has been in operation for purposes of project
preparation, formal designation of the project management structure for implementation will
be necessary.  Government confirmed during negotiations its concurrence with the
specification of the structures and authorities for project management set out in Annex 10. A
condition of effectiveness would be confirmation of the establishment of the NHSP Project
Steering Committee. During negotiations assurances were provided that the Steering
Committee would be maintained during implementation for overall oversight of project
implementation, on the basis of criteria acceptable to IDA. Further steps before effectiveness
include the issuance of a decision on the creation of a central Project Management Unit, and



-31-
Figure 4.1
OVERALL IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE OF NHSP
MINISTRY OF HEALTH |
|   nterrninisterial |
l                    | ~~~~~Steering Committee|
Mnister of Healthq
Regular MOH Bodies
DMC  HP  STPTS
Project
|Director
Ad Hoc Proiect Rodies;            
Managerj(?Manager
|Staff
Inttt of| Lead Person I                                               Lead Person|
InstituteofInstitute of TBeci___s
Malaria & PE        I      RD                     Commitee on            Committee on
ple   n r         pComponent I                       Component 3
PROVINCIAUDISTRICT GOVERNMENT|
Provincial
Project
_         ~~Manager
DHdC             Provincial
I   .    |    ~~~Project
1 ~~~~Specialist
--*Imoementation relationship



-32-
the designation of other MOH units involved in implementing specific components or sub-
components of the project. This would also include specific provisions on how the PMU will
be staffed by full-time personnel of adequate qualifications. If this is to be met by assigning
existing MOH employees, initial designations would be made. If this is to be met by hiring
contractual employees, agreement with MOF or MPI, as appropriate, to do so providing rates
and sources of funding would be documented. This will also include the identification of
office area, provision of adequate office equipment, and setting aside sufficient operating
funds for coordinating the nation-wide implementation of the project.  A condition of
effectiveness would be provision of evidence satisfactory to IDA that the Project
Management Unit has been established and its manager appointed Assurances were
provided during negotiations that the PMU would be maintained during implementation for
coordination of project implementation, on the basis of criteria acceptable to IDA, as
outlined in Annex IO.
4.6         Implementation of the project would depend on existing MOH and provincial
health department structures and processes as far as possible. Existing bodies in the MOH
such as the National Drug Policy Council, Committee on Medical Prices and other relevant
bodies officially created would deliberate on matters involving project implementation.
Similar bodies at the provincial level would also be utilized for executing project activities.
The MOH  would establish, as appropriate, mechanisms/structures to ensure effective
interdepartmental coordination for project implementation.
4.7         Whenever necessary, the NHSP Director, as delegated by the Minister of
Health, may create ad hoc recommendatory bodies to undertake various tasks and coordinate
decisions regarding the project. For instance, various bodies may be established such as:
Technical Evaluation Committees to technically review proposals or offers of contractors to
the project; a Project Budget Review Committee to review and consolidate the various
proposals of implementing units for their respective annual project budgets; other special
committees to handle specific tasks. Once officially created, these bodies would perform
functions in project implementation.
4.8         Experience with other IDA-financed projects in Viet Nam to date highlights
the importance of having in place at effectiveness the requirements for rapid project start up.
Budgetary provisions are especially important. Government would be asked to provide a first
year implementation plan for the project, including a first year project budget before
effectiveness. In addition, if required by Government procedures, available budget authorities
to disburse project funds in 1996 would need to be identified.
4.9         Lastly, since much of the actual implementation of Component 1 activities will
be undertaken by provincial authorities, it will be essential that MOH negotiate with and reach
agreement with the respective People's Committees of the 15 participating provinces on a
number of critical implementation matters. A condition of effectiveness would be provision
of evidence satisfactory to IDA that the Provincial Implementation Units (PIUs) have been
established and their managers appointed. Assurances were provided during negotiations
that the provincial PIUs would be maintained during implementation for assisting Provincial
Health Service Directors to implement the project, on the basis of criteria acceptable to IDA,
as set out in Annex IO. Also, during negotiations, the Government provided assurances that



-33-
it would take all necessary steps to ensure that each of the project provinces implements its
activities under the project and is provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources requiredfor that purpose.
B . Accounts and Auditing
4.10        The total project account would be maintained by the PMU in MOH, and
separate accounts for the project components (activities) would also be maintained by each
local government of the project provinces and the MOH Institute of Malariology,
Parasitology, and Entomology and the Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases, in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The project accounts would reflect all financial
transactions during the project implementation period for both IDA Credit and counterpart
funding in two books, one by project components, and one by expenditure categories. The
project accounts would be separated from any routine budget account and other foreign-
financed project accounts.
4.11        The project accounts would be audited in accordance with Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (The World
Bank, March 1982). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that audits of project-
related records and accounts, including the Special Account, would be undertaken in
accordance with appropriate accounting principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and that audited accounts andfinancial statements, in a format
agreed with IDA, and including separate audits of Statement of Expenditures, would be sent
to IDA within nine months of the end of each Government fiscal year.
C. Progress Reviews and Reporting
4.12        The PMU would be responsible for monitoring project implementation
progress and performance.  Within the framework of the project's basic strategy and
objectives, and the design of its three components, fourteen key indicators have been agreed
upon to measure project impact and achievement. These indicators would provide measures
of the: (1) number of CHCs improved as a proportion of total CHCs targeted; (2) number of
DHCs improved as a proportion of total DHCs targeted; (3) utilization of CHCs; (4) infant
mortality rate; (5) maternal mortality rate; (6) malaria prevalence rate; (7) malaria case fatality
rate; (8) TB case-finding rate; (9) TB cure rate; (10) proportion of the population with access
to adequate primary health services; (11) share of public spending allocated to commune- and
district-level services; (12) project disbursement rate; (13) average time deviation of actual
procurement actions with planned milestones; and (14) actions taken in key policy areas.
Further description of these indicators is found in Annex 11. During negotiations, assurances
were provided that the Government would maintain operational procedures adequate to
enable it to monitor and evaluate overall project implementation progress and impact, in
accordance with the indicators set out in Annex 11, including the impact on various
communities in the project provinces, in particular those with ethnic minority populations
(see para. 4.18).
4.13        The PMU would produce progress reports based on service statistics and other
field data. During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the Government that it would



-34-
furnish semi-annual reports to IDA by June 30 and December 31 of each year, beginning in
September 1996.   These reports would constitute the basis for semi-annual project
performance reviews to be undertaken with IDA. In addition, assurances were obtained that
an annual project workplan and budget for the next fiscal year would be furnished to IDA by
August 31 of each year, beginning in Auigust 1966. The PMU would be responsible for
organizing annual workshops with the provincial PRJs to review implementation progress,
which would be timed to support annual preparation of operational plans and budgets.
4.14        At mid-term, the MOH would conduct a comprehensive review to determine if
there is a need for major changes to project design and implementation targets. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would, by March 31, 1999,
carry out a comprehensive mid-term review of project implementation on the basis of terms
of reference developed in consultation with IDA. Agreements were reached to ensure that
within six months of the Closing Date, the Government would submit to IDA a final
evaluation report on the project and a plani of such scope and detail as IDA may request for
the future operation of the completed project.
D. Impact on Women
4.15        Maternal mortality and morbidity in Viet Nam is high (the maternal mortality
ratio is reported to vary from 100 to 200 per 100,000 births) and there is a high incidence of
reproductive tract infections among Vietnamese women. The project would promote birth
spacing, provide a choice of contraceptive services, improve the quality of safe motherhood
interventions, and provide reproductive health services.  In combination with the IDA-
financed Population and Family Health Project, the project would increase women's
knowledge of desired health behaviors and encourage utilization of maternal and child health
services.
E. Environmental Aspects
4.16        The proposed project would have no significant impact on the environment.
Protocols would be developed for safe disposal of syringes at all health facilities covered
under Component I of the project, and their implementation would be monitored as part of
project supervision.  Two pesticides will be used in the project, PERMETHRAN and
LAMBDACYHALOTRIN (ICON). Both are classified as "unlikely to present any health
hazards in normal use". Although both pesticides are harmful to aquatic fauna (particularly
fish), their specific-restricted use in malaria control for impregnation of bednets and residual
spraying of houses excludes any negative environmental impact. Project activities will not
result in the involuntary resettlement or displacement of any persons. In the long-term, an
improved rural health care system, which includes adequate provision of family planning
services, will lower fertility rates and reduce environmental pressures associated with rapid
population growth.
4.17        Five of the provinces in which Component I of the project will operate have
significant ethnic minority populations (Cao Bang, Lang Son and Son La in the Northerm
Mountains region and Gia Lai and Kon Tum in the Central Highlands). Overall, ethnic
minorities constitute 13 percent of the Vietnamese population. Most of these minority groups



-35-
are relatively disadvantaged. They mainly inhabit the mountainous, forested or remote parts
of the country, often living in small and scattered settlements that are difficult to access. As
part of project preparation for IDA's Population and Family Health Project (PFHP)--to be
implemented concurrently with the NHSP--, two studies were carried out on ethnic minorities
in Viet Nam by an anthropologist with long experience in Thailand and Viet Nam. The
findings are also applicable to the NISP. The major finding was that the disadvantages of
these groups in Viet Nam stem primarily from lack of access to services.
4.18         The PFHP will fund a number of studies to build up a better data base on
ethnic minorities and their distinctive health and family planning needs. A baseline national
survey for the PFHP will be undertaken that will over-sample ethnic minority populations,
including collection of information on how well the service delivery system responds to the
particular needs of ethnic minorities. Additional participatory studies will be carried out to
allow minorities to communicate their distinctive family population and family health needs,
and examine the nature of care during pregnancy and delivery, and more general issues with
respect to family health care (reasons for non-use of CHCs, etc.). The PFHP will also fund
pilot efforts to explore how to deliver family health services more effectively in remote areas,
e.g., experimentation with village-based health posts (Annex 12 summarizes these studies and
pilot efforts). Since the NHSP will deliver the same basic services through the same MOH
structure at the local level as the PFHP, the findings of these studies and pilots will be directly
applicable to the NHSP.  The NHSP will therefore incorporate these results into its
implementation activities in the same manner as will the PFHP. In addition, in each of the
training modules of the project, technical assistance will be employed to design practical
methods for assessing the training needs of ethnic minorities, designing or adapting training
modules for them, and evaluating the training outcomes in ethnic minority areas. The training
program will also include workshops on training techniques for ethnic minorities in all
provinces where applicable. Special attention will be paid to assessing how well the project is
meeting its objectives in ethnic minority areas as part of the mid-term  review.  During
negotiations, assurances were provided that the Government will carry out the project in
accordance with a strategy, satisfactory to IDA, which (a) shall be designed on the basis of
studies and surveys undertaken by qualified experts under terms of reference and timing
satisfactory to IDA; and (b) include provisions for the informed participation of, and
consultation with, a variety of representative communities in the project provinces, in
particular ethnic minorities, to ensure that the design and implementation thereafter of the
project adequately addresses the needs and preferences of such communities.
4.19         There are no resettlement issues in the project.
Sustainability
4.20         The annual recurrent cost implications of the project have been estimated to
represent less than one percent of the projected national health budget at the end of the
project. It would seem reasonable that this level of costs could be maintained. However, it is
essential that the project investments not only be sustainable but also be ones that are cost
effective. World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health argues that the inclusion of
health care as part of a strategy for combating poverty justifies the public financing of a



-36-
minimum package of '"ssential" clinical or individual services. It identifies five clusters of
interventions that have been found to be highly cost-effective: prenatal and delivery care,
family planning services, management of the sick child (with particular attention to diarrheal
diseases, ARI, measles and malaria), treatment of tuberculosis and case management of
sexually transmitted diseases. These particular interventions are at the core of the National
Health Support Project. The World Development Report (WDR) 1993 estimates that these
five interventions each cost less than US$50 per DALY in low income countries, estimates
that are believed to be applicable to Viet Nam. WDR 1993 estimates the cost of tuberculosis
control by short-term chemotherapy in low income countries at US$3-5 per DALY, making it
one of the most cost-effective of all interventions. The cost per DALY may be even less in
Viet Nam given predominant treatment of ambulatory cases rather than the more expensive
option of hospitalization that is used in some countries.  Global estimates of  case
management of ARI suggest a cost per DALY of about US$37 and there is no reason to
believe this estimate does not apply to Viet Nam.
4.21         The project's field level interventions have therefore been chosen as priorities
for the project because they address health problems that cause a large disease burden in Viet
Nam but also are ones for which well-documented, cost-effective measures are available. As
such, they constitute interventions that should result in demonstrable gains in health status and
thus be interventions that Government would want to sustain.
4.22         A broader issue concerns the project's focus on support for the health
problems of the poor.  There is concern in the Government that regional inequalities could
worsen in the near term in the course of anticipated overall economic growth. Thus, for the
foreseeable future there is likely to be political support for directing resources to improving
health care in the poorer provinces targeted by the project. However, it is also the case that
current expenditure patterns in the sector are clearly not sustainable. The bulk of public
resources are going to large hospitals, in part due to demand caused by failures at lower levels
in the health system. The project aims to, among other things, strengthen local delivery
systems, thus lessening the demands on higher level, more expensive care; make more
transparent the MOH's resource allocation process so that resources increasingly go to
provision of more cost-effective health services, and facilitate increased private financing of
care, where appropriate, thus lessening the burden on public funding of health care. Together
these measures should lead to a more sustainable health sector.
4.23         Even taking into account increased efficiencies in the sector, IDA needs to be
assured of Government commitment to sustaining project activities after the completion of
the project. This issue must be viewed from a sector perspective and not only a project one.
The policy component of the project, particularly the work on public expenditures on health,
will assist the Government to identify sector-wide inefficiencies with the view to directing
resources to sustaining the public health/public good objectives of the project over time.
Thus, as the project progresses, IDA's overall policy dialogue will need to explicitly focus on
the issue of sustainability. This would have two dimensions. The macroeconomic work
carried out under the proposed SAC II would address the issue of overall allocations for the
sector. The work carried out at the sectoral level under the public expenditure component of
the project would focus on the composition of these allocations, with particular attention to
encouraging adequate investments in priority public health areas. These two concerns would



-37-
then be brought together during the project mid-term review in the form of an exchange of
views between the Government and IDA concerning long-term investments in the sector.
This would also provide an opportunity to review the question of striking an appropriate
balance between cost recovery and the resource needs of the sector. In addition, IDA would
also need to play a role in encouraging other donors to reinforce the emphasis on having the
Government sustain investments in public health.



-38-
5.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1          The project would result in better primary health care for people in rural areas
of 15 of the poorest provinces in Viet Nam through improvements in the grass roots health
delivery systems. Upgraded health facilities that are equipped with adequate equipment and
essential drug supplies, and staffed by personnel who have had their skills and knowledge
improved through retraining would result in a much improved primary health care system that
delivers quality care. These benefits would be especially important to women and children
who are affected most by the current lack of adequate maternal and child health care services.
Given similar inputs from IDA's concurrent Population and Family Health Project in an
additional 15 provinces, over half of Viet Nam's 53 provinces would benefit from the two
projects. Approximately 52% of the total population of Viet Nam in the year 2002 will have
benefited from these projects. This would result in significant overall improvements in health
status in the country, particularly with respect to maternal, child and reproductive health.
5.2         The 15 NHSP provinces will have a projected population of about 19 million in
the year 2002 or 24% of Viet Nam's total population, who would benefit from access to
improved primary health care. Beneficiaries of the core Component I interventions, covering
maternal and young child care plus family planning, would amount to an average of 3.7 million
annually, made up of about 500,000 women requiring maternal care, around 1.2 million
children under three years of age and around 2 million contraceptors.
5.3         The project's support to national communicable disease control programs
would result in a substantial nationwide reduction over time in morbidity and mortality due to
malaria,  tuberculosis, and ARI.  As both malaria and tuberculosis lead to reduced
productivity in the labor force on the part of those infected, these reductions would have
important benefits to the economy.  Moreover, when such programs are effectively
implemented, especially in the case of tuberculosis, reductions in the number of new cases are
usually long-term. Thus, there are also economic gains to be achieved as a consequence of
reducing the current costs to the health system  of  treatment.  Specific numbers of
beneficiaries for each control program are provided below.
5.4         While the exact number of TB cases is not known, MOH estimates that there
about 130,000 cases annually. Currently, 55,000 cases are detected per year, a detection rate
of 42%. Most importantly, the project seeks to achieve a cure rate of 85% of all detected
cases. While maintaining this essential focus on an appropriate cure rate, it also targets a
gradual increase in the detection rate to 70% of all cases over the life of the project.
5.5         Some 35 million people, or a little less than half of Viet Nam's total
population, are at risk of malaria. Fifteen million are exposed to intense malaria transmission.
Migration trends are likely to result in an even larger population at risk in the absence of
improved malaria control. The malaria control program targets proper treatment of some
800,000 clinical malaria cases at the primary level in 1996 with an overall program aim of
reducing the number of cases of malaria by about 100,000 per year during the project. It also
seeks to keep malaria outbreaks in the country to under 30 per year. Although the program



-39-
suggests reductions in mortality from malaria that would be achieved over the life of the
project, it is not proposed to attempt to measure these reductions.
5.6          An estimated total of some 10 million children are at risk of ARI and the total
number of estimated deaths presently due to ARI is between 25,000 and 30,000 cases per
year. The ARI national program has a target of treating correctly some 1.2 million children in
1996 rising to some 3.5 million by the year 2000. This would translate into an estimated
avoided mortality of about 10,000 children per year.
5.7          The project's focus on building institutional capacity for policy formulation
would result in strengthened Government capacity to develop policies for the sector that lead
to a more effective and efficient use of sector resources over the long-term. An important
corollary to this would be increased capacity of the Government to achieve its objective of
effectively targeting health resources for the benefit of the poor. Also, improvements in the
Government's ability to mobilize private financing of health care by those able to pay for it, as
well as its ability to promote quality provision of private health care, would lessen pressures
on the public budget for financing health services as well as free up resources that can be
directed to the needs of the poor.
B. Risks
5.8          There are three main risks. The first is that the Government will not provide
the financial resources necessary to guarantee the salaries of commune health center workers
over time. Without this, the other grassroots inputs will have minimal impact. Despite the
promulgation of an official policy decision, such resources have to date not been made
available in all provinces. During negotiations, assurances were provided that each commune
health center and district health center in the project provinces would be appropriately
staffed in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA and district health centers provided
with adequate funding to meet the payroll obligations with respect to related commune
health center staff A second risk has to do with the generally weak implementation capacity
of MOH to manage the project at all levels. Of particular importance is the need for a strong
PMU with qualified, adequately supported staff As noted above (para. 4.5), Government
would provide adequate staffing and financing for the PMU, satisfactory to IDA.
5.9    A third risk relates to the previous two. An underlying assumption of the project is
that, once they are properly staffed and equipped, utilization rates at rural facilities will rise as
people regain confidence in the services available. Moreover, these services are unlikely to be
found elsewhere as they are for the most part not ones that the private sector would provide.
However, people will return to public health facilities only if they are convinced, by the quality
of care they receive, and by the outreach functions of these facilities (e.g., concerning the
importance of improved child nutrition), that doing so results in better health. This fact simply
reinforces the importance of project interventions that are technically sound and that can be
effectively implemented in such a way that clearly demonstrates their utility to those that need
them most. It will be important, therefore, to closely monitor response to provision of
services. As noted above (para. 4.12), a set of performance indicators were agreed upon at
appraisal. In the course of annual work plan discussions and the mid-term review, progress
with respect to these indicators will need to be reviewed and adjustments made as necessary.



-40-
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1         During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) it would furnish to IDA by September 30, 1996, and have an exchange of
views with IDA on, a comprehensive description of the policy and
implementation  guidelines   it will employ  to  ensure  the  effective
implementation of: (i) cost recovery with respect to the essential drugs and
medical supplies to be provided by the project in those communes of project
provinces where applicable; and (ii) providing essential drugs and medical
supplies free of charge in mountainous and remote communes in project
provinces. The principles used to designate mountainous and remote
communes would also be provided. The policy and implementation guidelines
would be reviewed by the Government and IDA each year thereafter and
would be an explicit focus of the mid-term review (para. 2.1 1).
(b) the selection of CHCs and DHCs to be upgraded would be carried out on the
basis of criteria acceptable to IDA, as described in Annexes 2 and 5 (para.
2.15).
(c) the facilities of each commune or district that are upgraded would be
maintained in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA (para 2.15).
(d) an action plan for the training activities under the project would be provided to
IDA for review and comments by June 30, 1996 (para. 2.22).
(e) it would maintain the Project Steering Committee during implementation for
overall oversight of project implementation, on the basis of criteria acceptable
to IDA (para. 4.5).
(f) it would maintain the Project Management Unit during implementation for
coordination of project implementation, on the basis of criteria acceptable to
IDA, as described in Annex 10 (para. 4.5).
(g) it would maintain the Provincial Project Implementation Units during
implementation for assisting the Provincial Health Service Directors to
implement the project, on the basis of criteria acceptable to IDA, as described
in Annex 10 (para. 4.9).
(h) all necessary steps would be taken to ensure that each of the project provinces
implements its activities under the project and is provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose
(para. 4. 9).
(i) audits of project-related records and accounts, including the Special Account,
would be undertaken in accordance with appropriate accounting principles



-41-
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that
audited accounts and financial statements, in a format agreed with IDA, and
including separate audits of Statement of Expenditures, would be sent to IDA
within nine months of the end of each Government fiscal year (para 4.11).
() operational procedures would be maintained adequate to enable monitoring
and evaluation of overall project implementation progress and impact, in
accordance with indicators as set out in Annex 11 (para. 4.12).
(k) semi-annual reports would be furnished to IDA by June 30 and December 31
of each year, beginning in September 1996 (para. 4.13).
(1) an annual work program and budget for the next calendar year would be
furnished to IDA by August 31 of each year, beginning August 1996 (para.
4.13).
(m)by March 31, 1999, a comprehensive mid-term review of project
implementation would be carried out on the basis of terms of reference
developed in consultation with IDA. Also, within six months of the Closing
Date, the Government would submit to IDA a final evaluation report on the
project and a plan of such scope and detail as IDA may request for the future
operation of the completed project (para. 4.14).
(o) surveys, studies and training programs would be undertaken, in accordance
with criteria acceptable to IDA, to ensure the informed participation of, and
consultation with, ethnic minority communities (para. 4.18).
(p) each commune health center and district health center in the project provinces
would be appropriately staffed in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA
and district health centers provided with adequate funding to meet the payroll
obligations with respect to related commune health center staff (para. 5.8).
6.2         In addition, during negotiations, the Government reached an understanding
with IDA on:
the logistics arrangements for handling project-financed commodities, in
accordance with discussions held during the appraisal as set out in Annex 4
(para. 2.1 1).
6.3          As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would provide evidence
satisfactory to IDA that:
(a) the Project Steering Committee shall have been established (para. 4.5).
(b) the Project Management Unit shall have been established and its manager
appointed (para. 4.5).



-42-
(c) the Provincial Project Implementation Units in project provinces where
Component 1 will operate shall have been established and their managers
appointed (para. 4.9).
6.4          In addition to the above agreements, during negotiations the Government
clarified that:
(a) it will make available to MOH a budget allocation to cover the cost of customs
duties and taxes for goods and consultant services; and
(b) with respect to consultant services, all letters of invitation, contracts and
invoices submitted for disbursements would be net of taxes (para. 3.3).
6.5          Subject to the conditions in paras. 6.1 to 6.3 above, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 68 million (US$101.2 million
equivalent) to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam with 40 years maturity, and 10 years of
grace.



Viet Nam
National Health Support Project
PROVINCES TO BE SUPPORTED BY COMPONENT I
Summary Statistics
Malaria''  Tuberculosis'3
Region                  1994"   Per Capita-2                 IMR'4    IJ5MR'4    MMR'4   Death Rate/  Death Rate/
Province              Population GDP (1993) CBR'3  CDR'"   1,000         1,000     100,000     100,000      100,000
Northern Mountainous
Cao Bang                 638,000    219      36.0    9.8       77         106        298        0.78         0.63
Lang Son                 689,600    284      31.5    7.7       58         80         226        0.29         1.60
Son La                   802,000    182      38.3    7.6       68         88         264        3.99         0.37
Ha Bac                 2,308,200    369      27.5    7.1       44         50         170        0.04         1.17
Red River Delta
Ha Tay                 2,256,700    331      23.5    6.1       61         78         243                     1.42
Northern Central Coast
Nghe An                2,743,400    313      32.8    8.0       67         86         260        0.62          1.75
Ha Tinh                1,308,800    274      30.6    8.6       67         89         261        0.31         2.22
Quang Tri                535,000    330      32.7    7.2       54         76         207        2.06         2.24
Southern Central Coast
Binh Dinh              1,407,000    301      32.1    6.9       62         92         240        0.85         2.42
Phu Yen                  730,600    341      31.3    7.6       51         71         200        2.74         3.56
Ninh Thuan               459,300    648      35.3    6.7       52         72         209        1.96         3.48
Central Highland
Gia Lai                  763,300    257      38.5    8.2       101        148        418        5.90
Kon Tum                  255,800    381      40.8   15.4       101        148        394        8.60         1.96
East of Southland
Tay Ninh                 888,100    428      28.1    5.7       48         58         204        0.90
Mekong River Delta
Soc Trang              1,197,100    352      30.6    7.3       54         67         211        0.84
National Average       1,348,392    517      28.5    6.7       52         68         200        0.83         2.73
Note: The national averages may differ from those presented in the text since they come from different years and data bases
Per capita GDP figures are in thousand Dong at 1989 prices
Sources: 1) General Statistics Office (GSO); 2) GSO and Ministry of Planning and Investment; 3) MOH Health Statistics Yearbook 1994;     I
4) UNICEF estimates                                                                                                               X



-44-                               Annex 2
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
INVESTING IN AN ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURE FOR DELIVERING
PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES IN VIET NAM
1.          Component 1 of the National Health Support Project (NHSP) includes a
package (drugs, equipment, civil works and retraining) that would provide support for
Commune Health Centers and District Health Centers. This support is an investment intended
to secure an essential infrastructure for delivering public health services in Viet Nam. This
annex outlines the rationale for such a package and details what would be included in such a
package, including proposed criteria for prioritization of investments in specific districts and
communes.
What The Package Does NOT Intend to Do
2.          Component 1 does not attempt to restore the old, completely subsidized public
health system. Central and local government plus the donor resources are insufficient to re-
establish and sustain a totally state-financed health network under the current situation of
rapidly increasing demand for health care in Viet Nam. Nor would such a system make sense
in the socio-economic and political conditions that obtain in the 1990's.
3.          Given that Government policy now sanctions private provision of health care,
Component 1 does not attempt to reduce the present nor forestall future private sector
responses to such increasing demand for health care in the growing, modernizing economy.
While the demand is growing for drugs; for physician--and even more for specialized
professional services--; for hospitalization; and for various modern treatment modes,
Component I assumes that they will increasingly be supplied by a dynamically responding
private health care market.
4.          Component 1 also does not attempt to use central government financing
through a national loan-financed project to reduce local governments' investments in public
health. While the NIHSP will be implemented by the Ministry of Health and financed by a
Credit to the national government of Viet Nam, the execution and financing of Component I
in the selected provinces would take into consideration provincial capacities to manage and
sustain the financing required for continued operations of the facilities that would be improved
by project investments.



-45-                               Annex 2
What the Package DOES Intend To Do
5.          First, the package will only be made available to the poorest and least
developed provinces, districts and communes that had not yet received similar kinds and levels
of public health investments in the past five years. This means that Component 1 will
strengthen the public health service delivery capacities precisely in those places whose
populations have not yet benefited from increased economic activity, higher household
incomes and vigorous private sector growth that have occurred in other provinces, districts
and communes of the country.
6.           Secondly, the package will only strengthen those elements and activities of
commune and district level public health service outlets which benefit the whole community,
which private practitioners do not find profitable to provide and for which households are not
individually willing to pay themselves.
7.           The Commune Health Centers (CHCs) will be strengthened in their
capacities for community-wide health activities such as,
initiating and following up, as appropriate, case finding and case management
in prevalent infectious and communicable diseases like TB, malaria and ARI,
the control of which are of national importance,
provision of appropriate quality maternal and child care, including family
planning, for which household demand needs to be influenced in ways
consistent with long term community welfare;
provision of early first-contact care for common medical problems of the very
poor who have no means to pay; and
conduct of activities in IEC, epidemiological monitoring and community
mobilization for which individuals are not willing to pay but whose social
benefits exceed their costs.
8.           The District Health Centers (DHCs) will be strengthened in those technical
support and managerial functions which are most efficiently shared among a number of CHCs,
instead of being provided in each single CHC, such as:
technically competent field supervision whose effectiveness depends on
coverage wider than one or two communes;
adequate laboratory and other diagnostic facilities that require higher volumes
of work for cost efficient operations;
relatively intensive medical and surgical services required for management of
hospitalized or serious cases due to infectious and communicable diseases of
national importance as well as of cases requiring higher level competencies in
maternal and child health care, including family planning service.
9.          In addition, the basic clinical credibility and effectiveness of DHCs would be
enhanced in terms of better emergency care capabilities for management of cases common in



-46-                                 Annex 2
the community and of facilities for patient transport, reliable sterile supplies and emergency
electrical power.
10.          The Component will support the improvement of DHCs primarily as technical
support and management command centers for commune level public health operations. The
improvement of other DHC clinical capabilities as a hospital are being undertaken primarily in
recognition of the observation that credible and effective leadership and supervision in
preventive care tends to be done better in tandem with demonstrated ability to render reliable
and good quality basic curative care.  Another reason for this approach is that in the
communities selected by the project, it will take some time before adequate private hospitals
can emerge to meet the health care demands of the population. Meanwhile, it may be possible
to partially finance the operations of improved public district hospital capabilities by
implementing equitable user fees on services for which better-off people in the area are willing
to pay.
Proposed Criteria for Prioritizing Investments
11.          In the provinces selected for support by the project, the following proposals
would be used for determining what Component 1 inputs should be provided to which
facilities.
Commune Health Centers
12.          In general, the package of inputs to be provided should include only those
necessary for enabling a CHC to function as:
-     a base for community-wide health activities;
-     a site for delivering community-level services under the national health
programs;
-     the community's focal point for mobilization in preventive and promotive
activities, and
-     a source for first-contact care of minor medical problems and for referral of
possibly more difficult cases.
13.          The inputs should include some civil works, some minor equipment, some
drugs and medical supplies, and some staff re-training.
14.          Civil Works. Investments in civil works should be targeted to assuring a core
area with minimum enclosed space and facilities adequate for five distinct activities, namely
a multi-purpose area (useful for activities like immunization sessions, mothers'
classes, staff meetings, health education sessions) for up to at most 10 adults;
an examination area for at most two persons;
a minor surgery/delivery/family planning/treatment area for at most two
persons;



-47-                                Annex 2
-     a post-treatment/observation/recovery/patient waiting area for at most two
persons; and
-     a storage area sufficient for CHC stock of supplies and equipment.
15.          Electrical connections in electrified areas and a source of safe water should
also be assured.
(a) It is proposed that civil works investments exclude those CHCs within one hour
travel time (by normal mode of transport) from the nearest DHC or Provincial
Hospital.
(b) It is also proposed that additional civil works beyond the basic model, such as
additional patient holding or treatment facilities, may be provided for CHCs in
mountainous areas and those most remote from referral DHCs.
(c) It is proposed that new CHCs be constructed to replace temporary or completely
dilapidated ones in mountainous areas and those most remote from referral DHCs
which have the highest levels of activities and utilization rates in the past three years.
16.          Equipment. Investments in equipment should be focused on instruments and
devices, scales, sterilizers, and furniture.
(a) It is proposed that distribution of equipment be done only to assure that all CHCs
have the minimum standard list. For those items which are already available and are
still usable, new or additional ones should not be provided.
(b) CHCs which may not receive the civil works investments may still receive the
equipment investments according to need.
(c) CHCs which perform significantly more than the average CHC--in terms of the
range or quantity of services rendered, or which serve much larger than average
populations--may be given additional quantities of equipment items in the standard list.
17.          Drugs and Medical Supplies. Investments in drugs and medical supplies
should assure sustained availability of adequate quantities and types needed for first-contact
care of minor cases, maternal and child health care, family planning, treatment of trachoma
and common eye diseases, and nutrition and growth monitoring. The standard list of drugs is
based on quantities appropriate for an average size commune.
(a) Quantities of drugs and supplies actually distributed to CHCs should consider the
variations in sizes of populations being covered by different CHCs. Those that serve
larger than average populations should get more and those with less than average
populations should get less. But in all cases the types of drugs and supplies provided
should be maintained.
(b) CHCs which are receiving similar supplies from other sources should be provided
additional supplies only up to that level of provision equivalent to all other CHCs.



-48-                                Annex 2
18.         Retraining. The appropriate regularly salaried workers from all CHCs of the
provinces selected, including those working in CHCs which may not receive any or all of the
civil works, equipment and drugs inputs, should be re-trained on two basic modules, namely
the Maternal, Neonatal Care and Family Planning Module and the Endemic Diseases Module.
(a) CHC workers who are not yet regularly salaried should be re-trained at the time
when they shall have been absorbed into the government payroll.
(b) It would be preferred that the re-training activities be timed near, i.e., shortly
before or after, the period of distributing the equipment and drugs to be provided by
the project.
District Health Centers
19.         In general, the package of inputs for district health centers would be those
deemed essential to enable them to adequately operate as:
-     the main source of technical, administrative, financial and logistical support
services for operations of commune health centers,
-     the provider of managerial and supervisory direction in the implementation of
community-level activities under national health programs,
-     the performer of diagnostic and treatment services and functions required at
first-referral level supporting implementation of national health programs;
-     the first option provider of common emergency medical and surgical care and
hospitalization of the poor.
These inputs include some civil works, some equipment, some drugs and medical
supplies, and some re-training of DHC personnel.
20.          Equipment.   Equipment would  be provided to  meet the minimum
requirements for hospital-based clinical support of implementing various national health
programs plus the incremental requirements for securing a safe and functional hospital
environment. In support of national disease control programs, equipment for services in
clinical laboratories with public health use, diagnostic X-ray, and operating and delivery rooms
shall be provided. For adequate general hospital conditions, equipment for central sterile
supplies, emergency electrical power, and ambulance transport shall be provided.  The
standard list of equipment is based on quantities appropriate for an average size district.
It is proposed that DHCs in densely populated areas be provided with more
complete equipment than those in less densely populated areas. Where the
probability of high levels of utilization exists, then investments in hospital
equipment should be made. These areas would have been targeted to receive
less investments in CHCs. In places where the population is too dispersed to
use the hospital intensively such as in mountainous and very remote areas, less
investments in hospital equipment should be made as these areas would have
already been targeted to receive more investments in CHCs.



-49-                                Annex 2
21.          Civil Works.  Investments in equipment shall be the main rationale for
determining appropriate investments in civil works. Thus, investments in civil works shall be
provided by the project only up to the level and extent required to properly accommodate and
adequately operate the equipment provided. At the minimum, only the investments required
to install the equipment and slightly modify existing spaces would be made. At the maximum,
the building of a whole diagnostic and treatment block may in rare cases be provided. In most
cases, only those renovations required for proper X-ray, laboratory, operating and delivery,
central sterile, emergency power rooms and an ambulance garage would be supported.
-     Below a certain minimum (see Annex 5), it would be more expedient not to
include civil works activities under the project and instead require that the
necessary works be provided by local government authorities as a condition for
receiving the equipment.
22.          Drugs.  Investments in drugs will be based on the drugs provided to the
commune health centers for the reason that the project is not really supporting DHC drug
requirements in general, but rather drug requirements of commune-level activities that spill
over to the DHCs.
It will be necessary for DHCs to establish mechanisms that will ensure the
appropriate dispensing of these drugs in accordance with the established drug
use financing policies of the MOH.
23.          Retraining. Investments in re-training will be provided to all DHCs including
those not receiving the civil works or equipment inputs. Three modules of re-training will be
provided to appropriate DHC staff as follows:
re-training of all users of medical equipment on proper operation and
preventive maintenance of these equipment;
skills and techniques required by district supervisors that support commune-
level operations,
district managers and department heads will be trained in the management of
hospital operations and district health center operations.



-50-                                     Annex 3
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
FURNITURE AND MEDICAL EQUIPMENT TO BE
PROVIDED TO COMMUNE HEALTH CENTERS
Serial                               Item
No.
1        Sterilizer pressure electrical/Fuel 18 liter
2        Drum, sterilizing, cylindrical 240 mm diam
3        Disinfector instr. boiling type
4        Forceps sterilizer (Utility) 200mm Vaughn CRM
5        Gas burner with gas container
6        Basin solution deep approx. 6 liter.
7        Pail waste with cover 12 liter SS
8        Disinfector Instrument Boiling type Fuel
9        Path strip urinary protein
10       Stethoscope binaural complete
11       Thermometer clinical oral
12       Sphygmomanometer aneroid 300 mm/Hg with cuff
13       Scale physician adult metric 140kgsxlOO
14       Tongue depressor 165 mm metal
15       Table instrument on wheels
16       Stretcher, Army type folding
17       Cupboard for drugs/instruments
18       Basin kidney 825 ml
19       Basin kidney 475ml
20       Tray instrument/shallow 480x330x 19mm
21       Tray inst./dressing w/cover 310x195x63 mm
22       Bowel sponge 600 ml stainless steel
23       Pot with cover and spigot 23 liter Aluminum
24       Cup solution 180 ml
25       Syringe hypo 2ml luer, 5 ml luer, 10mI luer, 20 ml luer
26       Needle hypo 0.7x 32 mm/22gx 1-1/4 luer box of
27       Needle hypo 0.55x 19mm/24gx 3/4 luer box of
28       Needle hypo 0.9x 38mm/20gx 1-1/2 luer box of
29       Forceps tissue spring type lx2 teeth 200mm S
30       Forceps dressing spring type 2 10mm SS
31       Knife handle surgical for major surgery # 4
32       Knife blade for major surgery # 21
33       Scissors surgical straight 145mmS/B SS
34       Scissors surgical straight 145mmB/B SS
35       Scissors surgical curved 140mmS/B SS
36       Scissors dissect curved 145mmB/B
37       Scissors bandage angular lister 180mm SS
38       Flashlight Pre-focused 2 cell right-angled head
39       Urinal male upright model 1.5 liter SS
40       Bed-pan fracture Jones SS



-51-                                    Annex 3
41      Irrigator 1.5 liter w/tubing-clamp & STR connect
42       Stretcher, folding type
43       Acupuncture needle
44       Bag hot - water & ice combination 2 liter rubber
45       Stool revolving adjustable height enamel
46       Water filter aluminum with 4 stearyl candles
47       Scissors uterine curved Sims 200mm SS
48       Measure graduated w/ handle 500 ml/ I pint
49       Scissors dissect straight Mayo 170mm B/B SS
50       Holder needle straight broad-jaw Mayo HGR 20
51       Gynecological examination table
52       Speculum vaginal bi-valve graves small
53       Speculum vaginal bi-valve graves medium
54       Forceps sponge holding straight 200mm SS
55       Speculum vaginal weighted auvard 38x75 mm
56       Tray instr/shallow 480x 330xl9mm
57       Sound uterine Simpson 300mm graduated in 20
58       Needle suture 3/8 circle cutting assorted
59       Gloves surgeon's latex size 6 1/2 (pair)
60       Gloves surgeon's latex size 7 (pair)
61       Forceps, IUD removal, alligator jaw type, 8
62       Forceps uterine tenaculum 280mm
63       Dilator uterine double-ended pratt SS
64       Karman syringe single valve
65       Bath baby oval 25 liters polyethylene
66       Cuff spare for sphygmomanometer child size
67       Syringe rectal infant rubber bulb hard tip 30 ml
68       Dropper medicine straight tip ungraduated
69       Aspirator nasal infant size 30 ml
70       Forceps hemostat straight (Kocher Ochsner) 180 mm
71       Labor & Delivery bed (Vietnam) SS
72       Suture cotton white non sterile 00 USP 91 m
73       Tape Measure 1.5/60 Vinyl coated fiberglass
74       Pelvimeter Collyer external grad Cms/Inches
75       Stethoscope fetal pinard monaural
76       Pump breast hand rubber bulb glass/plastic bell
77       Scissors episiotomy angular Braun 145 mm SS
78       Needle suture, uterine, Martin 1/2 circle
79       Catgut suture size 2
80       Scale infant clinic metric 15.5 kg x 5g



-52-                                        Annex 3
BASIC MEDICAL EQUIPMENT FOR MOUNTAINOUS/
REMOTE HAMLETS
Serial                                 Item
No.
I       Syringe hypodermic 5ml - Luer/glass with box
2       Syringe hypodermic 10 ml - Luer/glass with box
3       Needle hypodermic No. 20g, 22g and 24g box of 12
4       Sterilizer instrumnent fuel-heated 28cm
5       Clinical Thermnometer/oral
6       Binaural Stethoscope
7       Sphygmomanometer aneroid 300 mmD/Hg with cuff
8       Tray instrunment/dressing with cover 310x195x63 nmn
9       Forceps sponge holding straight 200 mm/SS
10       Forceps tissue spring type lx2 teeth 200 mm/SS
11       Scissors curved Sims
12       Scissors surgical straight 145 B/B-SS
13       Tongue depressor 165 mm - SS
14       Tape measure 1.5 m/60 Vinyl coated
15       Tourniquet
16       Bandage
17       Medical adhesive
18       Flashlight pre-focus 2 - cell 1.5V
19       Cover bag plastic (VN)
20       Physical scale
21       Kerosene heater
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND INSTRUMENTS TO BE
PROVIDED TO DISTRICT HEALTH CENTERS
Serial                                 Item
No.
1     2.5 KVA gasoline generating set
2     Adenoidectamy instruments set
3     Anesthesia apparatus portable
4     Ambulance
5     Balance double beam triple clamp 2 kg
6     Balance semi-analyt. 250g with weight
7     Bed labor and delivery (Vietnam)
8     Bed patient stationary mattress
9     Carriage dressing with pail and basin
10     Cassettes for X Ray films - additional set
11     Centrifuge angle head 220V
12     Centrifuge micro hematocrite 24 tubes
13     Cesarotomy and hysterect. inst. set (20 items)
14     Chalazion instruments set
15     Colonmeter photoelectric
16     Diagnostic set
17     Dental hand Instrument Set
18     Dressing Sterilizer Pressure, electric, 50-7OLtr.
19     Drum sterilizing 340 mm diameter
20     D&C and Aspiration kit



-53-                                     Annex 3
21    Electric water bath
22    Electric Suction Unit
23    Electro-cardiograph, I channel & paper
24    Electrophoresis apparatus
25    Endotracheal
26    Entropian instruments set
27    Enucleation instruments set
28    Fluorescent film illuminator
29    Gynecological examining table (Vietnam)
30    Gypsum cutter
3 1    Haemacytometer set complete
32    Head light specialist
33    Hemoglobinometer Sahli set
34    Infrared therapy lamp
35    Incubator oven lab. 400x400x330 mm
36    Instrument & Drugs Cabinet (Vietnam)
37    IUJD removal forceps
38    IUD insertion kit
39    Karnann Syringe single valve
40    Karmann Syringe double valve
41    Light examining floor stand type
42    Light operating emergency mobile
43    Major operating table
44    Micro-wave therapy apparatus
45    Microscope Binocular
46    Mortar and pestle 100 mm - glass
47    Oesophagoscope forceps set
48    Oesophagoscope instruments
49    Opthalmic examining instruments et
50    Opthalmic examining lamp (Hammer lamp)
5 1    Opthalmic foreign body inst. set
52    Oxygen cylinder 40 Itr - 150 atm (empty)
53    Oxygen flow meter
54    Oxygen's bag
55    Protective floor screen for XR scopy/graphy
56    Protective gloves leather covered
57    Pump aspirating surgical - 220V
58    Resuscitator - hand operated
59    Retinoscope
60    Scale infant clinic Metric (15.5 x 5 kg)
61    Scale physician adult mrt. ric 140 kgs x IOOg
62    Sphygmomanometer aneroid 300mm/Hg with cuff
63    Spare cuff for Sphygmomanometer for child side
64    Station water filtration, chlorination
65    Sterilizer boiling type 600x400x400 mm
66    Sterilizer for syringe/needle-boiing, 220V
67    Sterilizer hot air 220V
68    Still water 20 litres/hour
69    Stretcher army type-folding
70    Stretcher combination wheel
71    Stool (Adjusted revolving)
72    Support stand labor, with 4 rings
73    Surgical instruments major surgery kit
74    Surgical instruments minor surgery kit
75    Syringe hypodermic 20 ml - Luer - Glass



-54-                                      Annex 3
76    Syringe hypodermic 2 ml - Luer - Glass
77     Syringe hypodermic 5 ml - Luer - Glass
78     Syringe hypodermic 10 ml - Luer - Glass
79     Syringe rectal infant rubber bulb
80     Table - inst. adjustable Mayo type with tray
81    Table examining, folding
82     Table instruments on wheels
83    Table operating universal frame type
84     Thermovanocautery + electrodes for gynec (200)
85    Tracheotomy instruments set
86    Tray instrument covered 225X125 mm
87    Tray instrument shallow 343X247X16 mm
88    Tray instrument shallow 480X330X16 mm
89     Tubectomy kit
90    Ultra violet Alpen sun-lamp
91     Ultra violet lamp for sterilizer
92     Vasectomy kit (Non-scalpel)
93     Ventory Set, for IV
94    Wheel chair invalid folding
95     X-Ray apparatus - 100 MA R/F (incld. accessories)



-55-                                    Annex 3
ESSENTIAL DRUGS AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES TO BE PROVIDED
Serial                              CHCs
No.
I       Oxytocin 5UI Amp
2       Papaverine 100mg Amp
3       Benzyl Penicillin 0.6g/Vial
4       Metronidazole 250mg Tab
5       Nystatin pessary 100,0001U
6       Methyl Ergometrine 0.125 mg Tab
7       Xylocaine injection 1 % 50ml Bottle
8       Ferrous Sulphate and Folate Tab
9       Penicillin V 250mg Tab
10      Amoxycillin 250mg Tab
11      Co-Trimoxazole (400 + 80) Tab
12      Paracetamol 100mg Tab
13       Erythromycin 250mg Cap
14      Diazepam 5mg Tab
15      Atropine Sulphate 1/4mg Amp
16       Hypothiazide 40mg Tab
17      Tetracycline eye oint. 1 % 5g/Tube
18      Iodine Solution 30ml Bottle 2.5%
19      Mebendazole 100mg Tab
20       Neomycin + Bacitracin oint. 20g/
21       Benzyl Benzoate Emulsion 25% 1 lit
22       Magnesium Trisilicate Tab
23       First aid dressing
24       Bandage gauze non-sterile roll
25       Cotton non-sterile 100gm
26       Pantathenol Tube
27       Chlorpheniramine Maleate 4mg Tab
DHCs ( Supplemental to above)
28       Prostigmine 5mg/ml Amp
29       Dolargan 5% 2ml Amp
30       Lidocaine injection I % 50 ml Via
31       Gentamycin 80 mg inj. box of 25 V
32       Ampicillin 500mg inj. box of 25 V
33       Chloramphenicol 250mg Caps



-56-                              Annex 4
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
PROCEDURES FOR THE FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISTRIBUTION OF DRUGS AND EQUIPMENT
Procurement of Drugs Financed Under NHSP
1.          The NHSP will finance procurement of three groups of drugs, namely:
* essential drugs for commune health centers and district health centers under
Component 1,
* malaria treatment drugs for the Malaria Control Program;
* TB and ARI treatment drugs for the TB Control and ARI Control Programs,
respectively.
The latter two groups of drugs are included under Component 2 of the project. All
these drugs will be procured through one central mechanism to be established by the MOH in
conformity with relevant IDA procurement regulations.
2.          In order to carry out procurement of drugs, the MOH will formally establish
the necessary administrative structure and procedures for the conduct of the various stages of
drug procurement. This structure will provide for, at the minimum, the following tasks to be
performed by identified and designated groups, units, committees or departments of the
MOH:
(a) Drug specification in form, dosage, packaging, and other essential quality
dimensions. Drug quantity estimation, including proposed allocation of supplies
by provinces and levels.
These two tasks are proposed to be done as follows:
*  For essential drugs of DHCs and CHCs:  a Committee headed by the
Department of Pharmacy, with the participation of other MOH units involved in
the MCH-FP, nutrition, trachoma and basic medical care programs.
*  For malaria drugs and supplies:  a Committee organized by the Malaria
Institute.



-57-                               Annex 4
. For TB and ARI drugs and supplies: a Committee organized by the TB
Institute.
It is emphasized that the technical specifications should include all the relevant
standard provisions of the IDA-approved bidding documents, and that only those
technical specifications explicitly stated can be used as the basis of technical
evaluations.
(b) Bidding and procurement processing: This is proposed to be done via an
existing entity with experience in tender processing and other administrative as well
Bank procedures.
(c) Technical evaluation of bids or offers: The organizations and groups responsible
for technical specifications and quantity estimation (as described in (a) above) shall be
responsible for undertaking the technical evaluation and preparing the findings on the
technical responsiveness of the offers received.
(d) Awarding and contracting the procurement: The recommendation to award
the contract based on the technical findings and financial evaluation will be done by an
ad hoc committee designated by the Minister of Health for this purpose.  The
recommendation will be submitted to IDA for review, and upon approval, contracting
shall then proceed.
(e) Testing of deliveries, acceptance, and authorization for payment: Procedures
for pre-shipment inspection, manufacturer's certification, and in-country inspection as
appropriate will be provided in order to ascertain the compliance of the actual
deliveries of drugs according to what was specified, offered and contracted. This is
proposed to be done by a designated group of the MOH which shall supervise the
performance of specific evaluation steps for testing and accepting drug supply
deliveries.
(f) Consignment of drug deliveries to final end users: This is proposed to be done
by the same groups designated to perform the tasks identified in (a) above.
(g) Monitoring of drug issue, consumption and stock: A system of confirmation of
receipt of drug deliveries and supervision of actual flow of goods shall be set up and
supervised by the PMU, in cooperation with the Department of Pharmacy. Similar
mechanisms will be established for monitoring the flow of malaria, TB and ARI drugs.
3.           The rules and procedures for drug procurement shall be in conformity with the
country's laws and the IDA procurement regulations. The actual rules and regulations for
NHSP drug procurement will recognize the fact that compliance with currently implemented
drug regulations in Viet Nam alone may not be sufficient to ensure that drugs procured under
these regulations will be of adequate quality. Thus, in addition to satisfying relevant existing
drug regulations, such as current drug registration and supplier licensing, the procurement



-58-                               Annex 4
rules will apply other measures to control the quality of the drugs procured under the project.
These measures shall include adherence to GMIP standards, and the WHO system of
certification from country of origin, among other conditions explicitly provided in the IDA-
approved bidding documents.
4.           The MOH has indicated its intention to apply the relevant provisions of its
forthcoming national drug policy on the drug procurement under this project. These may
include, among others, an exclusive essential drug list, generic labeling of drug products,
application of GMP in manufacture of drugs to be procured, practice of rational drug use
according to treatment guidelines. Prior to doing so, these policies will be communicated to
IDA for consideration as to whether any of these policies are incompatible with World Bank
procurement guidelines. Some policies such as exclusive preference for domestic suppliers or
requiring pre-registration of drug products being procured may not be consistent with IDA
procurement regulations.
5.           An appropriate MOH decision or order stating these structures and procedures
governing drug procurement, among others, shall be an essential requirement to be met before
the project could be implemented.
Distribution of Drugs to be Procured
6.           Management of Commodities Distribution. Drugs and equipment procured
under the NHSP shall be distributed through arrangements established by the MOH as the
nodal service ministry that must ensure that these are supplied to user points at pre-
determined intervals and also ensure that suitable mechanisms are in place to ensure the
smooth, transparent and continuous flow of supplies. Towards this end, the following actions
will be taken:
(a) Due to the large volumes involved and the differing requirements of
delivery and follow-up action, separate logistics systems will be set up for
drugs and equipment.
(b) For drugs, MOH will establish the following arrangements:
(i) For Malaria, TB, and ARI control drugs, MOH will provide limited
support for port clearance and thereafter hand over delivered supplies to
the appropriate Institute for distribution through the existing vertical
channels for these control programs. Due to possible storage capacity
constraints at the Institutes, the central warehouses will hold stocks only on
request for a short period and will hand these over to the Institutes as and
when requested.
(ii) For essential drugs, MOH will arrange for a service contract for drug
distribution with three pharmaceutical companies, the details of which are
discussed in para. 7 below.



-59-                               Annex 4
(iii) All imported drugs will arrive at Haiphong. The MOH warehouse will
be used as a holding and transit facility. The port clearance and transfer of
stocks to the Malaria, TB, and ARI Institutes and the three pharmaceutical
companies will be contracted out through competitive bidding to private
contractors who specialize in clearing and forwarding activity.
(iv) For equipment, MOH will arrange for a distribution, installation, and
maintenance contract with three medical equipment companies, the details
of which are discussed in para. 13 below.
7.           In-Country Handling of Essential Drugs: Pharmaceutical company Number
1 at Hanoi, Number 2 at Ho Chi Minh City and Danang Central Company have adequate
capacity, infrastructure and manpower to handle the in-country storage and distribution of the
volumes and variety of essential drugs to be procured under the NHSP. These companies'
central warehouses had been handling drug supplies for the entire country before
liberalization. Furthermore, these central stores were further modernized in the early 1970's
under the SIDA Provision of Drugs Program.
8.           MOH intends to enter into a contractual arrangement with these entities for
providing the logistics support for both projects on agreed/negotiated service charges. These
companies will be contracted to be responsible for:
(a) Warehousing, storage, and accounting of all drugs procured under the
project;
(b) Inventory control and management;
(c) Physical distribution as per plans provided by the Pharmacy Department;
(d) Providing periodic reports of actual distribution and stock holding,
including exceptions, etc.
9.           Physical Distribution of Drugs from  the Center to DHCs and CHCs.
Since all drugs are meant to be supplied to district health centers and then to commune health
centers, the contracted companies will make direct deliveries to districts at frequent intervals
either using their own transport or private transport. The Provincial Health Bureau, through
its provincial NHSP-PMU, will prepare and approve the district and commune drug supply
distribution plans on which these deliveries will be based.  As deliveries are made, the
distribution contractor shall provide the provincial authorities with actual supply reports on a
regular basis. Intermediate provincial storage and subsequent transfer to districts has been
ruled out as this will add another step with consequent delays, possible losses and additional
costs.



-60-                               Annex 4
10.          This system of delivery will first be pilot tested in the provinces covered by two
central warehouses together with a comparative system in the other central warehouse which
would deliver to the provinces instead of direct deliveries to the districts. Evaluation of this
pilot will be undertaken after the first year. Recommendations from the evaluation will be the
basis for the system of distribution for the rest of the project life.
11.         The NHSP essential drugs will be delivered to district stores which have
adequate capacity for storage of the expected quantities provided under the project. Thus,
supplies to districts need only be made on a quarterly or semester basis. Distribution from
districts to CHCs will be done via the current monthly collection system by the CHC staff
when visiting the district for monthly meetings or when collecting their salaries. The volumes
per CHC are not large, storage capacity at CHCs are limited, and monthly rather than
quarterly allocations are probably better for control purposes.
12.          Separation of Free Drugs from Drugs for Sale. The contracted companies
are currently handling drugs for sale and they will also be handling these project-financed
drugs which are to be supplied free of charge to patients. Thus the MOH will require that the
contractor will physically segregate the stocks of project-financed drugs and maintain separate
stock accounts for receipt and issue, which will be subject to audit.
13.          Physical Distribution and Installation of Equipment.  MOH intends to
enter into contracts with Medinsco at Hanoi, Vimec at Ho Chi Minh City and the Danang
Equipment Store at a negotiated service charge for storage, distribution, installation and
maintenance of equipment supplied under the project.  These companies have adequate
storage capacity and staff and have the experience of handling and distributing UNFPA
supplied equipment, in addition to having received assistance for upgrading and modernization
from this donor. These companies will also be required to maintain separate segmented areas
for storage and separate segmented stocks and issue accounts for project-funded equipment
apart from their commercial operations.
14.          As is the case with drugs, the distribution plan for equipment among DHCs and
CHCs shall be prepared and approved by the Provincial Health Bureau, through their
provincial NHSP-PMU. But the contracted companies will supply the equipment direct to
DHCs, with subsequent distribution to CHCs within the districts. Information about the
receipt of these equipment will be provided to the provincial authorities.
15.          Estimates of the Costs of Distribution. A budgetary estimate equivalent to
7.5% of the CIF costs of drugs and equipment is included in the project costs. This estimate
is based on international experience in inward distribution. The actual costs or charges shall
have to be negotiated by the MOH with these companies.
16.          Financing of Service Contract Costs. The costs of the service contracts for
the in-country warehousing, storing, handling, distributing and accounting for the project-
financed drugs and equipment shall be borne by the Government as part of its project
counterpart costs.



-61-                               Annex 4
Project Financing of Drug Procurement and Distribution
17.          Project credit funds shall finance drugs included in the project and procured in
accordance with IDA regulations. Government counterpart funds will finance the service
contracts for distribution.
Financial Terms for the Dispensing of Project-Financed Drugs
18.          Under the terms of an existing Government decree, the drugs provided under
the project for the malaria, TB and ARI programs shall be dispensed to people for free. This
is also true for people living in mountainous and remote areas with respect to the approved
essential drugs listed in Annex 4 for CHCs and DHCs. These drugs are for communicable
diseases like malaria, TB, and ARI, or are essential drugs for pregnant women, children and
the poor. Adjustment in quantities favoring poorer communes may be made during
implementation.
19.         In order to fully implement the policy of not charging for utilization of these
particular drugs, the following measures shall be taken by the MOH:
(a) The regulations on dispensing the drugs included in the approved drug list for
CHCs and DHCs without charge shall be issued and given wide publicity, at the time
drug supplies under the project shall have started to flow.
(b) In the 15 provinces covered by Component 1, the Provincial People's Committees
shall be requested by the MOH to issue their own regulation on dispensing those drugs
in the approved drug list for CHCs and DHCs without charge. The rationale for the
policy on why these drugs in the list are provided free, while other drugs not on the list
are being sold, will be adequately explained to the People's Committees.
(c) Packing of drugs procured and distributed under the project shall be clearly
marked: "Not for Sale, To be Dispensed Without Charge", or similar words to that
effect. In addition, drugs provided in large volumes and with relatively high unit costs
shall be identified by unique markings on the tablets, vials, tubes or individual pieces of
the drugs. These markings will permit the monitoring of actual dispensing and use.
(d) The policy of dispensing without charge the drugs in the CHC and DHC drug list
in mountainous and remote areas and in the malaria, TB and ART programs, while
other drugs continue to be sold, shall be clearly explained and included in all health
worker training undertaken under the project.
(e) Compliance with the policy of dispensing project financed drugs without charge
shall be part of the supervision in CHCs by district supervisors. The health facility
records shall include prescriptions and dispensing by the health workers and
acknowledgment of receipt of drugs by the patients. Such records will be regularly
inspected by supervisors.



-62-                               Annex 4
(f) Continued supply of drugs under the project from the MOH to the provinces will
be based on the provinces' compliance with all their responsibilities for assuring that
CHCs and DHCs are dispensing these drugs without charge, in those areas where
applicable.
(g) The system of distribution of project-financed drugs, particularly when such system
may also handle drugs for sale, shall clearly describe the measures for preventing free
drugs from being sold. For some drugs included in the project which are also being
sold for other indications. e.g., some of the antibiotics for TB or ARI, stocks for sale
and stocks to be dispensed without charge should be clearly separated. At the DHCs,
issuance of drugs for sale and free drugs shall be at different points for dispensing
under these two different financing conditions.
Sustaining the Financing of Drug Supply
20.          Sustaining the financing of drugs being sold in the public sector is not a
problem. Drug selling in the public sector has many problems but sustained financing is not
one of them. The issue of financial sustainability in the project involves the provision of
certain drugs to certain people without charge. Controlling prevalent communicable diseases
like malaria, TB and ARI as well as improving the basic health of the poor and of children
require that adequate supply of drugs be made available to them at CHCs and DHCs without
charge.  Charging for these drugs could compromise the disease control and health
improvement objectives of the project; on the other hand, not charging for these drugs may
compromise the Government's ability to financially sustain the supply of these drugs over the
long term. Thus the specific sustainability issue is: how can the Government sustain levels of
financing in order to adequately supply those few drugs that need to be dispensed without
charge for some purposes to some groups in the population so that its disease control and
health improvement objectives can be met?
21.          Based on projections of the malaria, TB and ARI programs, successful disease
control efforts should reduce the extent of these disease problems over time. Thus in terms of
financing of drugs for these programs, the requirements will eventually decline with
progressive successes in disease control.
22.          For other essential drugs for the poor, continued financing through
Government revenues is being proposed in certain circumstances. Over the life of the project,
public expenditures analysis and private sector mobilization under Component 3 will identify
areas of current Government health activities where possible shifts from public financing to
private financing are desirable. Resources thus freed up could then be used to sustain the
financing of provision of essential drugs to the poor. This will be one of the specific
objectives of Component 3, i.e. to identify sources of financing within the current and future
pattern of public expenditures that may be more efficiently and even equitably replaced by
private financing, and may then be used to sustain the project's financing of essential drugs to
the poor.



-63-                             Annex 4
23.         Project financing for drugs is thus being used to reduce the burden of prevalent
communicable diseases like malaria, TB and ARI, and to protect the health of the poor now
and in the immediate seven years, in anticipation of further economic growth that can generate
sufficient incremental public resources for sustaining a possibly much reduced prevalent
disease control burden, while also making possible some adjustments in current public health
expenditure patterns.



-64-                              Annex 5
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
DECISION RULES FOR CIVIL WORKS INVESTMENTS IN
COMMUNE HEALTH CENTERS
1.   In the provinces covered by the NHSP, the following commune health centers (CHCs)
will not be included for civil works investments:
(a)   CHCs in urban areas.
(b)   CHCs within I hour travel time from the nearest District Health Center (DHC)
or provincial hospital.
(c)   New CHCs for "white communes".
2.    The following CHCs will be included:
(a)   CHCs located beyond I hour travel time from the nearest DHC or provincial
hospital.
(b)   CHCs on islands or in mountain areas, even if these are within 1 hour travel
time from the nearest DHC or provincial hospital.
(c)   New CHCs as replacements for temporary, completely dilapidated or
structurally unsound CHCs that also meet conditions 2 (a) and 2 (b) above.
3.    For CHCs that are included, the following extent of civil works will be undertaken:
(a)   Existing CHCs where the cost of repair or renovation is within 60% of the cost
of a new Model I CHC will be renovated or repaired according to Model 1 or
2', depending on the actual type present.
(b)   Existing CHCs where the cost of repair or renovation is estimated as beyond
60% of the cost of a new one may be repaired, replaced with a Model 1 CHC
or replaced with two smaller sub-CHCs provided that the total cost does not
exceed 120% of the cost of a new Model I CHC.
(c)   Existing CHCs to be replaced will be replaced with either a new Model I
CHC or two smaller sub-CHCs whose cost does not exceed 120% of the cost
Model I not to exceed 70 sq. meters; Model 2 not to exceed 95 sq. meters.



-65-                             Annex 5
of a new Model I CHC. In such cases, relocation may be allowed to achieve
better population coverage.
DECISION RULES FOR CIVIL WORKS INVESTMENTS IN
DISTRICT HEALTH CENTERS
1.   In provinces covered by the NHSP, the following DHCs will not be included in the
civil works investments:
(a)   DHCs within 30 minutes normal travel time to a provincial hospital.
(b)   DHCs other than the one selected for a given district.
(c)   DHCs occupying temporary facilities.
2.    All DHCs included in the civil works investments will be classified into one of the
following categories:
(a)   DHCs whose basic layout and structural condition is acceptable, and the 6
areas for improvement are in acceptable locations. Civil works will be limited
to repairs and renovations of the 6 areas.
(b)   DHCs whose structural condition is acceptable but whose layout of the 6 areas
is not. Civil works may include relocation and renovations in order to place
the 6 areas in more functional locations.
(c)   DHCs whose structural condition and whose layout are not acceptable. Civil
works may include building of a new functionally located treatment and
diagnostic technical block where the improvements will be housed.
3.    All DHCs in the project provinces will be categorized as not included or included into
one of the above three categories. Each included DHC will be planned specifically for its
situation and needs, within the parameters of unit costs and scope of work defined for the
category to which it belongs.



-66-                             Annex 6
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
TRAINING PROGRAM
The National Health Support Project will support the training of CHC and DHC
workers through five modules. These Modules are:
Module 1: Retraining of CHC Workers in MCH-FP
Module 2: Retraining of CHC Workers in Endemic Diseases
Module 3: Training for DHC Technicians in Equipment Use, Operation and
Maintenance
Module 4: Training for DHC Personnel on Supervision and Management of
Commune Level Health Operations
Module 5: Training for DHC Personnel in the Supervision and Management of
District Hospital Operations
The modules will utilize interactive training methodologies and will employ relevant
available materials as well as develop new ones or adapt existing ones.' In the implementation
of this sub-component, the following general policies will be adopted:
1.    Technical Direction By A Module Task Force
For each module, a task force will provide technical direction in the development and
implementation of the module. The composition of the task force will be determined on the
following basis:
(a) Persons representing institutions with mandates relevant to the training module;
with technical expertise in the content of the module or the methods of training; and
who are familiar with the practical conditions of the field, understand and accept the
value of good quality training; and have the time and energy to get involved in the
activities of the task force.
(b) For reasons of convenience, members of the task force will come from around
Hanoi. However, attention shall be given to include periodic consultations with
persons who come from other parts of the country, particularly the South and Center.
Persons in this category shall also be identified and included as consulting members of
the task force.
1 A detailed description of the content of each module as well as how it will be developed and
implemented is available in the project files.



-67-                              Annex 6
(c) Members of the task force should in general not be involved in conducting the
training, although one or two of its members may also be engaged as a master trainer.
This will insure that the task force effectively oversees the development of the module.
2.    Technical Support by Identified Institutions for Each Module
(a) The costs for the operations of the task force shall be included in the contract to
the institution that shall serve as the base for module development. The following
institutions have been tentatively identified:
Module I-   Institute for the Protection of Mothers and Newborn and Institute for
the Protection of Child Health
Module 2 and 4-Ha Tay Secondary Medical School
Module 3-   Institute of Medical Equipment or Medical Technician College
Module 5-   School of Public Health.
(b) Each of the above institutions will be supported to maintain a small secretariat or
administrative unit to sustain the activities of the task force, assist the master trainers
who are developing the module, and provide a venue for the activities of module
development.
3.    Master Trainers to Serve as Module Developers
(a) For each module a number of master trainers have been identified who will
perform the following functions:
-Conduct the training needs assessments;
-Contribute to designing the module curriculum;
-Prepare the prototype reference, teaching and learning materials;
-Pre-test the module design and materials;
-Conduct training of trainers;
-Supervise and monitor the actual training, including conduct of some of the
training;
-Evaluate the training outcomes and prepare recommendations on module
revisions;
-Receive and work with foreign consultants involved in the training.
(b) Master trainers will be engaged as local consultants on a part-time or full-time
basis depending on the needs of the module at different stages of project
implementation. The costs for keeping the master trainers involved shall be included in
the contract of the institutional base of the module.



-68-                              Annex 6
4.    Official Certificates on Module Completion
All modules will have an official certificate issued by the MOH-DST that attests to the
successful completion of the module. This includes both trainees and trainers.
COMMON INPUTS TO ALL TRAINING MODULES
In addition to the requirements of each of the five training modules, there will also be
inputs shared by all five modules. This section summarizes the technical reasons for these
common inputs.
I1.    Technical Assistance Common to All Modules
The following foreign technical assistance would be provided to all the five modules:
(a) Introduction and application of interactive training methodologies for the design and
development of the training modules.
(b) Methods of assessing training needs and evaluating training outcomes in relation to
those needs.
(c) Use and development of creative materials for teaching and learning in interactive
training.
(d) Practical methods of assessing training needs of ethnic minorities, designing or
adapting training modules for them, and evaluating training outcomes in ethnic cultural
situations.
(e) Practical ways to include collecting and using information by health workers and
managers as a key discipline in the design and implementation of the 5 training modules.
(f) Review of common information on hygiene, sanitation, infection control and
antibiotic use in the 5 training modules and generating practical suggestions for featuring
the most appropriate and effective measures in the training materials.
(g) Preparing the provinces to coordinate training, evaluate their results and sustain
them; reviewing the experiences of provinces in conducting training under the project;
generating suggestions on how they can sustain them beyond project life.



-69-                              Annex 6
2.    Workshops Involving All Modules
The following workshops would be organized to involve all the modules:
(a) Workshop on Interactive Training Methodologies- 10 days; 25 participants(5 from
each module)
(b) Workshop on Training Needs Assessment and Evaluation- 10 days; 25 participants
(c) Workshop on Materials Development for Interactive Training- 10 days; 25
participants
(d) Workshop on Training Techniques for Ethnic Minorities- 10 days; 25 participants
(e) Workshop on Collecting and Using Information as a Discipline to be included in all
the Modules- 10 days; 25 participants
(f) Workshop on Infection Control and Management as a Discipline to be included in all
the Modules- 10 days; 25 participants (5 from each module)
(g) Two Workshops for Provincial Training Managers on Coordinating, Evaluating and
Sustaining Training Activities- two sessions of 10 days each with 30 participants each (4
for each of the 15 provinces).
(h) Orientation Workshop for All Members of the 5 Task Forces- to discuss the training
sub-component and the NHSP; review the proposed terms of reference for the
institutional base; and prepare general work arrangements among task force members (4
days; 40-50 participants).
(i) Meeting with Provincial leaders in the 15 provinces- to present the plans for training,
secure their support for making the facilities and personnel available, and explain the
objectives and purposes of the project (2 days; 30 participants).
3.    Equipment for Training Sites
(a) For each of the 15 Secondary Medical Schools that will serve as training sites:
copier; computer with printer; overhead projector; white boards, sound system
(b) For each of the 4 sites for trainers' training and base of module development:
equipment for the training sites plus vehicle and video equipment.
4.    Coordination of the Training Sub-Component
An administrative unit with two persons and some office equipment will be
established and operated in the MOH Department of Science and Training to support the
coordination of all the task forces and all the training activities.



-70-                               Annex 7
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
SUPPORT TO NATIONAL DISEASE CONTROL PROGRAMS
INTRODUCTION
The disease control component of the National Health Support Project would include
program support for the National Malaria Control Program, National Tuberculosis Control
Program and the Acute Respiratory Infections Program. The component would be
implemented by the National Institute of Malariology, Parasitology and Entomology and by
the National Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases through existing
organizational channels.
RATIONALE FOR SUPPORTING THESE PROGRAMS:
* The three diseases have been selected as priority public health concerns by the
Government because communicable and infectious diseases still pose an intolerable
burden on the health of the population and a substantial drain on economic resources.
The burden of disease falls disproportionately on the poor. Furthermore, their control
is necessarily in the public domain forming an essential part of public health activities
in the country. The three diseases are of particular high priority for the reasons
detailed below.
After years of effective control, malaria has had a resurgence in recent years, with the
number of deaths reaching 4,646 in 1991, the highest number ever recorded. This
worsening of the situation was primarily due to the under-financing of the National
Malaria Control Program (NMCP) and was compounded by the changing
epidemiological situation, serious problems of resistance to drugs and decline in
general health services. Although mortality has been steadily reduced in the past two
years, the risk of malaria continues to be a fundamental threat for about 35 million
Vietnamese.  Hence, protection from this risk of malaria for the population is
imperative.
* Tuberculosis is a less dramatic and visible disease in Viet Nam, though it is the second
major public health problem following malaria. Annually, more than 50,000 new
infectious cases occur, most of whom would die without proper treatment. Moreover,
these patients infect annually more than one million Vietnamese citizens.  With
systematic treatment it is now not only possible to prevent the mortality caused by
tuberculosis but also, and most importantly, to gradually reduce transmission of
the disease. This would result in fewer new cases per year, and such a gain in
tuberculosis control is long-term.



-71-                               Annex 7
* Acute respiratory infections, particularly pneumonia, is the single most important
killer of children under 5. While a program to control ARI is gradually being put in
place, it presently reaches only half the children in need.
DESCRIPTION OF THE SUB-COMPONENTS:
Malaria Control sub-component:
Objective:         To reduce malaria mortality, morbidity and its social and economic
impact in Viet Nam.
To strengthen national and local capabilities for sustainable malaria
control.
Main Inputs:       Insecticides, equipment, means of transport, training, IEC, program
support.
Indicators:        Prevalence, mortality
Main Outcomes:    Coverage of all populations at high malaria risk by locally effective
anti-vector measures, with emphasis on impregnated bednets; early
diagnosis and treatment, improved program management including
better epidemiological services, training, supervision, communication
and program related applied field research.
Benefits:          Improved health status for the approximately 35 million people in Viet
Nam at risk of malaria, in particular the 15 million exposed to yearly
intense malaria transmission.
Reduction of risk of unmanageable multiple drug resistance partially
caused by the unregulated private pharmaceutical market.
Increased socio-economic development opportunities in malarious
areas.
Implementation:    National Institute of Malariology, Parasitology, and Entomology.
Risks:             There is a distinct risk that the attainment of a level of malaria control
cannot be sustained after project termination. However, with the social
and economic development in Viet Nam continuing at the current pace,
such a scenario does not seem probable.



-72-                                 Annex 7
Tuberculosis Control sub-component:
Objectives:         To reduce tuberculosis incidence, mortality and morbidity including the
psycho-social suffering caused by the disease.
Indicators:         Case-finding rate, cure rate, number of districts on short-course
chemotherapy.
Main Inputs:        Drugs, equipment, transport, training and operations support.
Main Outcomes:      Reduction in tuberculosis incidence and mortality through attainment of
a case finding rate of 70% of new infectious patients and cure of 85%
of all patients enrolled in chemotherapy.
Benefits:           Reduced tuberculosis incidence in the general population.
Cure of infected patients.
Implementation:     National Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases.
Risks:              A major risk is always insufficient compliance (patients under treatment
dropping out) resulting in a very slow decrease of the incidence of
tuberculosis in the general population. This risk can be mitigated by
careful patient follow-up.
ARI Control Program sub-component
Objectives:         To provide the national ARI program funds to purchase additional
drugs and supplies in order to achieve its coverage objectives. The
objective under this sub-component is limited since UNICEF provides
major assistance to the ARI program, covering most development and
program costs.
Indicators:        Pneumonia cases treated.
Main Inputs:        Antibiotics, equipment, training and program support.
Main Outcome:       Extend coverage under the ARI program to 100% of children under
five by the year 1999.
Benefits:           Reduction in the mortality of ARI among children and improved
health status in this group.
Implementation:    National Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases.
Risks:              A major risk is the limited absorptive capacity at the CHC level, which
is the level at which the interventions will be targeted. Also, wastage



-73-                                Annex 7
of drugs is an on-going concern and this would require standard ARI
case management and careful drug management.
ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED DURING IMPLEMENTATION
The proposed control strategies for the three programs are technically sound.
However, the following issues will need to be addressed during implementation:
For malaria:
* establishment of ecological and occupational patterns to better target control
* agreement to provide bednets free of charge
* review of antimalarial drug use and disease management in the private sector and
development of an action plan to influence private sector use of antimalarials
* establishment of a small research steering committee
For tuberculosis:
-  review and establishment of criteria for introduction of short course chemotherapy
(six months)
-  establishment of dosages for introduction of blister packs for short course
chemotherapy
- undertake tuberculin survey in selected provinces to measure impact
- review anti-tuberculosis drug use in the private sector and develop an action
program
For ARI
*   study drug resistance to co-trimoxazol



Viet Nam
National Health Support Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(US$ Million)
Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI
Prourams                   Strengthen MOH's Planning &
Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services               Assistance Assistance              Management
Re-training             Assistance      to         to                   Mobilizing
District Commune  of Local                     to       National   National      Public      Private   National
Level    Level      Health      Project    National    Malaria       ARI    Expenditure  Finance    Health
Services Services   Workers   Sunervision TB Proaram  Pror.i ram    Proaram      Review    for Health  Survey   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                     2.8      14.8            -           -           -          -           -            -           -        -    17.6
B. Equipment                      14.4       7.3          0.5         0.1         1.6        4.9         0.3          0.2           -      0.6    29.8
D. Drugs                           3.1       6.3            -           -        17.7        15.0        3.0            -           -        -    45.1
E. Training
Overseas Training                  -         -          0.1         0.2           -        0.2           -            -        0.2       0.1      0.6
Local Training                     -       0.3          2.7         0.0         0.9          -          1 -                      -       0.0      4 1
Subtotal Training                    -       0.3          2.8         0.2         0.9        0.2         0.1            -         0.2      0.1      4.7
F. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance       -         -         0.9          0.1         0.2        0.1         0.1          0.1        0.1       1.0      2.5
Local Technical Assistance         -         -         0.6          0.0         0.1          -         0.1          0.2        0.3       0.3      1.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance        -         -          1.5         0.1         0.2        0.1         0.2          0.3        0.4       1.2      4.1
G. Operational Research              -         -            -           -         0.3        0.4           -          0.1           -      1.4      2.2
Total Investment Costs              20.3      28.6          4.8         0.4        20.7       20.6         3.6          0.5         0.6      3.3   103.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Program Support                   -         -          0.3         0.3         2.3         3.6        0.5          0.1         0.2        -      7.2
B. Maintenance for Civil Works     0.1       0.7           -            -           -          -           -            -          -         -      0.8
C. Maintenance for Equipment       1.4       0.8           -            -         0.0        0.2           -            -          -         -      2.4
D. Logistics                       1.3       1.0            -           -           -          -           -            -          -         -      2.3
Total Recurrent Costs                2.9       2_5          0.3         0.3         2.3         3.8        0.5          0.1         0.2        -    12.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                 23.2      31.1         5.1          0.7       22.9        24.4         4.0         0.6         0.8       3.3   116.2
Physical Contingencies             1.3       1.5          0.0         0.0         0.1          -         0.0            -          -         -      3.0
Price Contingencies                2.4       4.8          0.1         0.1         0.4        0.3         0.1            -          -         -      8.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                  26.9      37.4         5.2          0.8       23.4        24.7         4.1         0.6         0.8       3.3   127.3
Taxes                               1.4      1.2            -         0.0         0.2        0.6           -            -           -        -      3.5
(D
X
oo



Viet Nam
National Health Support Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI
Proarams                   Strengthen MOH's Planning &
Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services                Assistance Assistance               Manaaement
Re-training              Assistance     to          to                   Mobilizing
District Commune  of Local                      to       National   National      Public      Private   National
Level    Level      Health       Project    National    Malaria       ARI    Expenditure  Finance    Health
Services Services   Workers   Suoervision TB Proram  Proaram    Prorara           Review    for Health  Survev   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                      3.6      18.6            -            -          -           -           -            -           -         -    22 3
B. Equipment                       15.9       8.0          0.5         0 1         1.7         5.1         0.3          0 2           -      0 6     32.2
D. Drugs                            3.6       7.2            -           -        17.7        15.0         3 0            -           -         -    46.6
E. Training
Overseas Training                   -         -          0.1         0 2           -         0.2           -            -        0.2       0.1      0 7
Local Training                      -       0.3         2.7          0.0         1.2 .-                  0.1-                      -       0.0      4.3
Subtotal Training                     -       0.3          2 8         0.2         1 2         0.2         0.1            -         0.2      0.1      5.0
F. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance        -         -         0.9          0.1         0.2         0.1        0.1          0.1         0.1       1.0      2.7
Local Technical Assistance          -        -            .7         00          0.1                     0.1         0.2         0.3       0.3      1.6
Subtotal Technical Assistance         -         -          1.6         0.1         0.3         0.1         0.2          0.3         0.4       1.2     4 3
G. Operational Research               -         -            -           -         0.3         0.5           -          0.1          -        1.4     2.3
Total Investment Costs               23.1      34.1          4.9          0.4       21.1        20.8         3.6          0.5         0.6      3 3    112.6
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Program Support                    -         -          0.3          0.4        2.3         3.6         0.5          0.1         0 2        -      7.3
B. Maintenance for Civil Works      0.2       1.0           -            -           -           -           -           -           -         -      1.2
C. Maintenance for Equipment        2.0       1.1            -           -         0.0         0.2           -            -          -         -      3.3
D. Logistics                        1.7       1.3           -            -           -           -           -           -           -         -      2.9
Total Recurrent Costs                 3.8       3.3          0.3         0.4         2.3         3.8         0.5          0.1         0.2        -     14.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                   26.9     37.4          5.2          0.8        23.4        24.7        4.1          0.6         0.8       3.3   127.3
Taxes                               1.4       1.2            -         0.0         0.2         0.6           -            -          -         -      3.5
00



Viet Nam
National Health Support Project
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
(US$ Million)
Base Cost
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000     2001      2002      Total
A. Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services
1. District Level Services                                          -     12.7       6.9       1.7       0.9      0.9       0.2      23.2
2. Commune Level Services                                           -     10 5      11.2       6.1       1.4       1.4      0.5      31.1
3. Re-training of Local Health Workers                            2.3       1.6      0.8       0.3       0.2       0.0      0.0       5.1
4. Project Supervision                                            0.2      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.0       0.0      0.1       0.7
Subtotal Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services                  2.5      24.9      19.0      8.1       2.4       2.3       0.9     60.1
B. Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI Programs
1. Assistance to National TB Program                             2.5       3.6       3 3       4 1       4.1      2.7       2.7      22.9
2. Assistance to National Malaria Program                         3.7      4.1       4.8       4 7       2 4      2.4       2.4      24.4
3. Assistance to National ARI Program                             0.6       0.7      0.9       0.8       0.4       0.3      0.3       4.0
Subtotal Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI Programs                    6.8       8.3       8.9      9 6       7 0       5.4       5 4     51.4
C. Strengthen MOH's Planning & Management
1. Public Expenditure Review                                     0.3       0.3         -         -                            -       0.6
2. Mobilizing Private Finance for Health                          0.4      0.4         -              -              -         -      0.8
3. National Health Survey                                         2.6       0.6      0.1         -         -         -        -       3.3
Subtotal Strengthen MOH's Planning & Management                     3.3       1.3       0.1        -         -         -         -      4.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                12.6     34.5      28.0      17.7       9.4       7.7      6.3    116.2
Physical Contingencies                                            0.0      1.2       1.0       0.4       0.1      0.1       0.0       3.0
Price Contingencies                                               0.1      1.7       2.8       2.0       0.6      0.6       0.3       8.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 12.7     37.4      31.8      20.1      10.1      8.5       6.7    127.3
Taxes                                                             0.4      1.8       1.1       0.3         -         *         -      3.5
I
X0



Viet Nam
National Health Support Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996     1997     1998     1999    2000    2001       2002    Total
A. Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services
1. District Level Services                                     -     14.1      8.1      2.2      1.1      1.1      0.3     26.9
2. Commune Level Services                                      -     11.8    13.6       7.7      1.7      1.8      0.7     37.4
3. Re-training of Local Health Workers                       2.3      1.6      0.8      0.3      0.2      0.1      0.0      5.2
4. Project Supervision                                       0.2      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1       0.8
Subtotal Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services             2.5    27.7    22.6       10.4      3.1      3.0       1.2     70.4
B. Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI Programs
1. Assistance to National TB Program                         2.5      3.7      3.4      4.2      4.2      2.7      2.7     23.4
2. Assistance to National Malaria Program                    3.7      4.1      4.8      4.8      2.5      2.4      2.4     24.7
3. Assistance to National ARI Program                        0.6      0.7      0.9      0.8      0.4      0.3      0.3      4.1
Subtotal Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI Programs               6.9      8.5      9.1      9.8      7.1      5.5       5.4     52.2
C. Strengthen MOH's Planning & Management
1. Public Expenditure Review                                 0.3      0.3        -        -        -        -        -      0.6
2. Mobilizing Private Finance for Health                     0.4      0.4        -        -        -        -        -      0.8
3. National Health Survey                                    2.6      0.6      0.1        -        - --              -      3.3
Subtotal Strengthen MOH's Planning & Management                3.3      1.3      0.1        -        -        -        -      4.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            12.7    37.4      31.8    20.1      10.1      8.5      6.7    127.3
CD
X0



Viet Nam
National Health Support Project
Expenditure Accounts by Year - Base Costs
(US$ Million)
Base Cost
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001      2002    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                 -      3.5      8.8      5.3        -         -        -     17.6
B. Equipment                                 3.0     16.8      7.8      1.2      0.4      0.3       0.3     29.8
D. Drugs                                    3.7       8.0      7.3      8.2      7.0       6.0      4.8     45.1
E. Training
Overseas Training                         0.4       0.1      0.1        -        -        -         -      0.6
Local Training                            1.2       1.4      0.8      0.5      0.2      0.0         -      4.1
Subtotal Training                            1.6      1.5      0.9      0.5      0.2       0.0        -      4.7
F. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance              1.6       0.3      0.3      0.2      0.1      0.0       0.0      2.5
Local Technical Assistance                1.0       0.2      0.2      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0       1.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance                2.6      0.5      0.4      0.3      0.2      0.0       0.1      4.1                                                 
G. Operational Research                      1.0      0.7      0.2      0.1      0.1         -        -      2.2
TotallnvestmentCosts                          11.9     31.0     25.5     15.6       8.0      6.3      5.2    103.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Program Support                           1.4      1.1      1.3      1.3      0.7       0.7      0.7      7.2
B. Maintenance for Civil Works                -       0.0      0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2       0.1      0.8
C. Maintenance for Equipment                0.0       0.3      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5       0.3      2.4
D. Logistics                                   -      1.3      0.6      0.1      0.1      0.1       0.0      2.3
Total Recurrent Costs                          1.4      2.8      2.5      2.1      1.4       1.4      1.1     12.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                          13.3     33.8      28.0     17.7      9.4      7.7      6.3    116.2
Physical Contingencies                      0.0       1.2      1.0      0.4      0.1      0.1       0.0      3.0
Price Contingencies                         0.1       1.7      2.8      2.0      0.6      0.6       0.3      8.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                           13.4     36.7      31.8     20.1     10.1      8.5      6.7    127.3
Taxes                                        0.4      1.8      1.1      0.3        -         -        -      3.5
00



Viet Nam
National Health Support Project
Expenditure Accounts by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001      2002     Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                 -      4.2     11.1      7.0        -         -        -     22.3
B. Equipment                                3.1      18.2      8.6      1.2      0.5      0.3       0.3     32.2
D. Drugs                                     3.7      8.3      7.5      8.5      7.3      6.3       4.9     46.6
E. Training
Overseas Training                         0.4       0.1      0.1        -        -        -         -      0.7
Local Training                            1.2       1.4      0.9      0.6      0.2      0.0        -       4.3
Subtotal Training                            1.6      1.5      1.0      0.6      0.2      0.0         -      5.0
F. Technical Assistance
Foreign Technical Assistance              1.6       0.3      0.3      0.2      0.1      0.0      0.1       2.7
Local Technical Assistance                 1.0      0.2      0.2      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0       1.6
Subtotal Technical Assistance                2.6      0.6      0.4      0.3      0.2      0.0       0.1      4.3
G. Operational Research                      1.0      0.7      0.2      0.2      0.2        -         -      2.3
Total Investment Costs                        12.0     33.5     28.9     17.8      8.4       6.7      5.3    112.6                                                1
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Program Support                           1.4      1.1      1.4      1.3      0.7      0.7       0.7      7.3
B. Maintenance for Civil Works                 -      0.0      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.3      0.2       1.2
C. Maintenance for Equipment                0.0       0.4      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.7       0.4      3.3
D. Logistics                                  -       1.6      0.8      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.0       2.9
Total Recurrent Costs                          1.4      3.2      2.9      2.3      1.7       1.8      1.3     14.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                           13.4     36.7      31.8     20.1     10.1      8.5      6.7    127.3
00



Viet Nam
National Health Support Project
Project Components by Financier
(US$ Million)
International
Viet Nam    Development
(US$ Million)                                                Government   Association        SIDA        Netherlands       Total     Duties &
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount   %                  Taxes
A. Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services
1. District Level Services                                  5.5 20.3    21.4 79.7          -     -        -    -    26.9  21.1          1.4
2. Commune Level Services                                   5.8 15.6    31.6 84.4          -     -        -    -    37.4  29.4          1.2
3. Re-training of Local Health Workers                      0.0    -      0.9  16.7        -     -      4.3 83.3       5.2   4.1          -
4. Project Supervision                                      0.1  15.0      0.7 85.0        -     -        -    -       0.8   0.6        0.0
Subtotal Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services           11.4 16.2    54.6 77.6          -      -      4.3  6.2     70.4  55.3        2.6
B. Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI Programs
1. Assistance to National TB Program                        3.5  15.0    19.9 85.0         -     -        -    -    23.4  18.4          0.2
2. Assistance to National Malaria Program                   1.9  7.9    22.7 92.1          -     -        -    -    24.7  19.4          0.6
3. Assistance to National ARI Program                       0.2  3.7      4.0 96.3         -     -        -    -       4.1   3.2          -
Subtotal Assistance to TB, Malaria, ARI Programs              5.6 10.7    46.6 89.3          -      -        -    -    52.2  41.0         0.9
C. Strengthen MOH's Planning & Management
1. Public Expenditure Review                                0.0    -        -    -       0.6 100.0        -    -       0.6   0.5          -                 o
2. Mobilizing Private Finance for Health                    0.0    -        -    -       0.8 100.0        -    -       0.8   0.6          -
3. National Health Survey                                   0.0    -        -    -       3.3 100.0        -    -       3.3   2.6
Subtotal Strengthen MOH's Planning & Management               0.0    -         -    -      4.7 100.0        -    -       4.7   3.7          -
Total Disbursement                                            17.0  13.4   101.2  79.5     4.7   3.7       4.3  3.4    127.3 100.0         3.5
00



-81-                                     Annex 9
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE AND PROFILE
Fiscal     Calendar        NHP        EAP Region
Semester     Year         Year        Estimated       Standard
1st                    1996            0              0
2nd        1997                        2.3             3
1st                    1997           4.9             3
2nd        1998                        8.5             6
1st                    1998           18.9            14
2nd        1999                       25.6            22
Ist                    1999          34.5             30
2nd        2000                       48.4            42
Ist                    2000           57.2            50
2nd        2001                       65.9            62
Ist                    2001           81.7           74
2nd        2002                       87.6            82
Ist                    2002          98.5            86
2nd        2003                       99.7            94
1st                    2003           100            100
Disbursement Graph
Cumulative %
100
90
80
70......
-Etmated
50
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Years



-82-                               Annex 10
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Functions of Key Officials in Project Management
Specially Designated Project Officials
1.    The NHSP Project Director: The MOH executive assigned by the Minister of Health
to administer the project. Based on authorities and powers delegated to him by the Minister
and within the boundaries of the project agreement, as well as Govemment and IDA
regulations, he performs all tasks and functions necessary to implement the project properly
and efficiently. He is the official mainly accountable for the timely and adequate execution of
the approved program of work for the project.
2.    Lead Persons for Component 1: The various activities of Component 1 would be
implemented by the respective departments, e.g., civil works by the Department of Medical
Equipment and Construction. However, there is a need for coordination across departments
for certain aspects of project implementation. Thus, this Lead Person would be the MOH
executive assigned by the Minister of Health to coordinate the implementation of Component
1, which provides support to commune health centers and district health centers in selected
provinces. He chairs a committee to be created under the project composed of representatives
of the MOH Departments of Medical Equipment and Construction, Science and Training and
Pharmacy, plus representatives from provincial health departments of the 15 project
provinces.  This committee is responsible for preparing recommendations and proposed
instructions on the implementation of Component 1 activities that involve cross-departmental
responsibilities.
3.    Lead Person for Component 3: The MOH executive assigned by the Minister of
Health to coordinate the implementation of Component 3, providing support to planning and
management in the Ministry of Health. He chairs the committee to be created under the
project composed of representatives of the MOH Departments of Planning and Finance,
Treatment and Health Statistics Unit, plus representatives of other relevant units.  This
committee is responsible for preparing recommendations and proposed instructions on the
implementation of Component 3 activities that involve cross-departmental responsibilities.
4.    Provincial Project Manager (in selected provinces): The provincial health service
executive, other than the provincial health service director, who shall be designated to serve as
the person whose primary task is to assist the provincial health service director in coordinating
NHSP activities involving the province, its districts and communes.  On behalf of the
provincial director, he will relate to heads of units in the provincial health department, and
district health directors concerned to ensure proper implementation of NHSP activities in the



-83-                               Annex 10
province. He will also relate to relevant MOH units on matters regarding the province's views
and suggestions in NHSP implementation.
Officials of Designated Project Implementing Units
Generic Functions of All Officials:
5.    Heads of existing units designated to implement specific aspects of the NHSP shall
generally perform the following common functions:
(a) Decides on all technical issues related to implementation of project activities
assigned to the unit. Technical issues include specifications of required inputs
such as equipment, drugs, training, consultancies, civil works; determination of
the strategies to be carried out by the project; prioritization criteria for allocating
project resources.
(b) Recommends the unit's proposed annual plan for project-related operations, the
corresponding proposed annual project budget for the unit, and the targets and
objectives to be accomplished by the unit under the project.
(c) Submits to the Minister, through the Project Director, reports of accomplishments
and pertinent documentation of project outputs.
(d) Receives, reviews and disposes of all instructions, orders, proposals and
suggestions on the implementation of project activities assigned to the unit.
The following officials, or his/her deputy, shall perform the above functions relative to
the NHSP activities assigned to the respective units they head:
6.    Director of the Institute of TB and Respiratory Diseases: Implementation of the
project's assistance to the TB and ARI programs in Component 2.
7.    Director of Institute of Malariology, Parasitology and Entomology:
Implementation of the project's assistance to the Malaria Control Program in Component 2.
S.    Director of the Department of Medical Equipment and Construction:
Implementation of the provision of support for equipment and civil works to CHCs and DHCs
in selected provinces, within any terms of the overall implementation of Component I set by
the Committee on Component 1.
9.    Director of the Department of Pharmacy:  Implementation of the provision of
support for drugs to CHCs and DHCs in selected provinces, within any terms of the overall
implementation of Component I set by the Committee on Component 1.
10.   Director of the Department of Science and  Training: Support for the
implementation of the re-training activities for CHC and DHC workers, supervisors and
managers, within any terms of the overall implementation set by the Committee on



-84-                               Annex 10
Component 1. The Department would work under the technical direction of the training
module task forces.
11.   Director of the Department of Planning and Finance: Implementation of Sub-
Component 3.1, on improving planning and management of public expenditures, within any
terms of the overall implementation set by the Committee on Component 3.
12.   Director of the Department of Treatment: Implementation of Sub-Component 3.2,
on mobilizing private financing for health, within any terms of overall implementation set by
the Committee on Component 3.
13.   Head of the Health Statistics Unit: Implementation of Sub-Component 3.3, on the
National Health Survey, within any terms of overall implementation set by the Committee on
Component 3.
14.   Directors of Selected Provincial Health Services: Implementation of all project
activities involving the province, within the terms of overall implementation by the following:
the Institute of TB and Respiratory Diseases for TB and ARI activities; IMPE for malaria
activities; Committee on Component I for district and commune level activities; Committee
on Component 3 for planning and management activities involving the province, such as
public expenditures management, private financing mobilization, and the national health
survey.
15.   Directors of Selected District Health Centers: Implementation of all project
activities involving the district and its constituent communes, within the terms of overall
implementation provided by the provincial health departments.
Functions of the Project Management Unit
16.   The Project Management Unit is the staff organized specifically to support all units of
the MOH and provincial health departments assigned to implement the NHSP. The PMU
does not implement the NHSP; it supports, assists, collaborates with, coordinates with, and
facilitates the work of, those regular and ad hoc government bodies assigned by the Minister
to implement the project.
17.   The PMU has the following functions:
In Relation to the MOH Implementing Units
(a) Assists them in preparing their respective annual project implementation plans and
proposed project budgets;
(b) Consolidates proposed plans and budgets into an overall project plan and budget
for approval by the Minister;
(c) Coordinates with the MOH and MOF units responsible for releasing project funds
to insure that implementing units have funds to undertake their planned activities;



-85-                                   Annex 10
(d) Assists in having technical issues in implementation identified and resolved by the
appropriate units;
(e) Coordinates central procurement, contracting of consultants, and distribution of
project inputs according to the technical guidance of the implementing units.
(f)  Provides  administrative,  facilitation   and  trouble-shooting   services  to
implementation units as required.
(g) Assembles all project reports required by the MOH, MOF, IDA, co-
financiers, and other agencies involved in project supervision.
In Relation to the Project Provinces
(a) Assists in ensuring provincial participation in project planning and budgeting
activities.
(b) Assists in ensuring provincial participation in decision-making of the implementing
units and ad hoc project bodies which affect provinces.
(c) Monitors actual implementation of project activities in the province.
(d) Identifies issues in project implementation in the field for resolution by the
appropriate implementing unit or ad hoc body.
(e) Provides information, clarification, administrative assistance, and facilitation
services to project provinces in connection with NHSP activities.
In Relation to IDA and Other Co-Financiers
(a) Prepares for and assists in conduct of periodic project supervision missions.
(b) Responds to any inquiries or instructions regarding project matters.
(c) Provides all required reports including statements of expenditures, physical
accomplishments, and other documentary information on project activities.
(d) Relays donor's comments, suggestions, technical proposals and other pertinent
information to responsible implementing units or officials.
(e) Follows up action on all recommendations of supervision missions, consultant
reports, and other pending matters related to project implementation.



-86-                               Annex 10
Specific Authorities Needed by the PMU to Effectively Coordinate Project
Implementation
If the PMU is to effectively carry out the above functions, it requires the following
authorities.
18.   Authority to issue annual planning and budget guidelines to be used by the
provinces, institutes and departments as the basis of their annual project plan
and budget.
Explanatory Note: Before the start of each year of project implementation, the PMU
will determine the overall scope and level of activities that are targeted to be
accomplished by the project for that year. This is reflected in the sequence of activities
as well as in the targeted level of project disbursements described in the Staff
Appraisal Report. This would usually be discussed by the Project Steering Committee,
and the resulting detailed guidelines on project priorities, project budget ceilings per
component or sub-component, and physical targets for the year would be issued to the
implementing units.
19.   Authority to consolidate all the component and sub-component plans and
budgets for the whole project and submit the final annual project plan and
budget to Government and IDA.
Explanatory Note: Based on the annual project plan and budget guidelines, each
province, institute and department involved will prepare their respective plan and
budget. These will be consolidated by the PMU and technically reviewed by ad hoc
committees it may organize. From these reviews, the PMU will identify issues for
resolution. Examples of issues would be: level of activity or funding required by an
implementing unit is higher or lower than what has been programmed; there are
problems with the technical approach proposed; there are conflicts in timing or
scheduling of activities; matching resources outside the project needed to achieve the
goals are not available; there are new ideas that have emerged since the project was
designed; etc. These issues are presented for resolution by the Steering Committee
and the decisions are implemented by the PMU in the consolidated project plan and
budget that it submits to other authorities.
20.   Authority to allocate fund releases to various project activities and implementing
units.
Explanatory Note: While the approved annual plan and budget would normally have
the total funding required from the credit proceeds and from the Govemment
counterpart, actual releases at any time may be less than the total required. In these
cases, the PMU will have to prioritize which activities will go first.



-87-                                Annex 10
21.  Authority to re-allocate fund releases from slower moving activities to faster
moving ones.
Explanatory Note: The PMU initially decides to set aside funds for certain activities to
proceed based on their expectation of implementation efficiency. But if other activities
move faster and thus need more resources, the PMU can allocate additional project
resources or re-allocate existing resources provided these are all within the annual plan
and budget.
22.   Authority to approve technical specifications for procurement and activity
implementation.
Explanatory Note: All contracts and expenditures paid from project funds will be
governed by technical specifications or descriptions developed by one unit of the
MOH or another. These specifications can include: type, dosage, or form of drugs;
type, make, critical performance criteria for equipment; scope of work and level of
effort of consultants; type of paper and binding for printed materials; number of
participants, duration and per diem rates for re-training; sample size and methodology
of surveys; etc. For all these specifications, the PMU should have final authority to
approve before these are sent to IDA for no objections review as necessary.
23.   Authority to approve contracts up to a certain amount.
Explanatory Note: Project contracts of some amount should be within the authority of
the PMU to approve for speed and efficiency in implementation.
24.   Authority to approve consultant selection.
Explanatory Note: Consultants to be contracted under the project shall be procured in
accordance with IDA regulations. The final selection shall be communicated by the
PMN  to IDA for no objection review, as necessary.
25.   Exclusive authority to communicate on official project matters with IDA.
Explanatory Note: The MOH will communicate with the IDA through the PMU. All
communications of provinces, institutes, and departments of the MOH regarding the
project will be coursed to the PMU and all IDA responses will be received and
transmitted to those concerned by the PMU. This will cover all bid documents,
contracts, specifications, and plans for review; all statements of expenditures, requests
and reports on financial transactions; all technical information and issues; and all
requirements for legal compliance.
26. Authority to decide on commodity distribution plans, choices of CHCs and DHCs
to include, and levels of activities in each geographic area.
Explanatory Note: In the course of project implementation, the distribution of project
benefits will be affected by the actual distribution for project inputs. The PMU should



-88-                               Annex 10
have the authority to finally approve the actual specific targeting of project inputs
during implementation in order to ensure that implementation adheres to the project
objectives and goals.
27. Authority to resolve technical disagreements among MOH departments as well as
between MOH departments and provinces.
Explanatory Note: There will be occasions when various units involved in the project
may not agree on technical issues. E.g., Malaria and TB programs would like to
conduct their own training; the re-training modules would like to integrate malaria and
TB training into one module. The DMEC would like to include provincial technicians
and engineers in the equipment training; DST wants to cover only the district-level
personnel. A province would like to modify the criteria for selecting CHCs for civil
works; DMEC would like to keep the criteria uniform. All these issues are examples
of technical disagreements for which the PMU should have the authority to resolve, by
itself or though the Steering Committee, or though another mechanism that it sets up.
28. Authority to request withdrawals from the Project Special Account and the fund
for Government counterpart to the project.
Explanatory Note:  This represents the act of disbursement for duly authorized
expenditures, and is therefore essential to project coordination.
29. Authority to submit official reports on the project.
Explanatory Note: The PMIU should be the source of all reports on the project.
30. Authority to maintain an account for PMU operations, authorize expenditures
charged to this account, authorize domestic travel of PMU personnel on project-
related matters.
Explanatory Note: The PMU should have a measure of autonomy in order to perform
its tasks.
31.  Authority to create ad hoc committees or work groups drawn from  the
implementing units of the project.
Explanatory Note: The PMU will identify from time to time various specific issues in
project implementation that require discussion and decision by various groups in the
project. The PMU should have the authority to set up committees and task forces to
deal with these issues.



-89-                               Annex I 1
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1.           The NHSP may be considered a set of inputs (drugs, equipment, civil works,
technical assistance) designed to allow a particular set of activities (service delivery, policy
work) to be undertaken to realize a set of outcomes (greater utilization of services, expanded
coverage by disease control programs, policy reforms)  that would lead eventually to
beneficial impacts on health status (reduced morbidity and mortality).
2.           With regard to project inputs, performance indicators should help determine
whether resources are adequate, readily available and economical. With regard to activities
undertaken by the project, performance indicators should help determine whether these
activities are completed as scheduled, effectively utilized and well targeted. With regard to
outcomes, indicators should be able to identify whether outcomes have indeed occurred, what
benefits were generated and to whom the benefits accrued. Finally, performance indicators
should help establish the overall impact on health status.   Thus, performance indicators
should answer the following basic questions: (1) were the resources adequate?; (2) were the
resources effectively applied?; (3) did the application of resources improve service delivery
and utilization? and (4) did all these lead to improvements in health status?
3.           Given the basic project strategy and the design of its components, the
following 14 performance indicators will be monitored. Indicators I-V are measures of
achievement of Objective 1 of the project, indicators VI-XI of Objective 2, and indicators MI
and XIV of Objective 3 (see Table 11.1). The remaining indicators provide measures of the
effectiveness of project management. It should be noted that the MOH already routinely
collects, and will continue to collect, data nationwide on morbidity and mortality for the basic
diseases of concern to the project, i.e., basic measures of health status. Thus, the indicators
listed below primarily concentrate on measures of inputs, activities and outputs.
I. Number of CHCs Improved as a Proportion of Total CHCs Targeted
4.           "Improved CHCs" are defined as those Commune Health Centers whose staff
has been trained on MCH-FP and endemic diseases, which have received the basic set of
equipment, are receiving a regular supply of essential drugs, are being regularly supervised by
district supervisors and whose facility is deemed physically adequate (new, repaired, upgraded
or replaced). The project targets the improvement of 2,819 CHCs in 15 provinces. This
indicator monitors the progress with which separate streams of investments in training,
equipment and drug supply, civil works and supervision come together in individual CHCs. In
addition to monitoring the progress of these activities as part of specific input indicators, the
individual CHCs will be tagged and the coming together of all the provisions reported and
monitored. The source of data will be individual facility reports validated by a supervisor



-90-                              Annex 11
from the provincial PMU. This indicator measures the extent of implementation of the
strengthening of the primary health care infrastructure in the target provinces.
II. Number of Improved DHCs as a Proportion of Total DHCs Targeted
5.          'Improved DHCs" are defined as District Health Centers whose staff have
been trained in equipment operation, field supervision and hospital management; have received
the basic equipment; are receiving regular supply of essential drugs; and whose building has
been repaired to accommodate the equipment. The project targets the improvement of 155
DHCs in 15 provinces. This indicator monitors the progress with which separate streams of
essential inputs are assembled in one service facility. The source of data will be individual
facility reports validated by a supervisor from the provincial PMU. This indicator measures
the extent of implementation of the strengthening of the primary health care infrastructure, of
which the DHC is a key technical support.
Ifl. Utilization of CHCs
6.          'Utilization" will be defined using three index services being provided by the
CHC, namely: delivery; outpatient clinic visit; and well-baby care visit. District supervisors
will maintain a monthly log of total numbers of these three index services for each of the
CHCs they regularly supervise. In the first year of the project, the utilization thus recorded
would serve as the baseline. As the various inputs to CHCs and their supporting DHCs are
provided and improvements of these facilities are completed, the recorded utilization will be
summarized by districts and consolidated by the provincial PMU.  Annual analysis of
utilization for CHCs of various conditions (improved CHC, partially improved CHC,
unimproved CHC paired with combinations of improved DHC, partially improved DHC and
unimproved DHC) would be undertaken by the NHSP-PMU. This indicator measures the
extent to which the community utilizes the appropriate and essential CHC services.
IV, V. Infant Mortality Rate and Maternal Mortality Rate
7.           These two impact indicators will track changes in the health status of children
and women, the primary beneficiaries of Component 1. They are considered sensitive to
project interventions (although also affected by other influences). The data will be made
available through routine MOH reporting systems as well as special surveys.
VI, VII. Malaria Prevalence and Case Fatality Rate
8.           The first is measured by the annual parasite incidence as reported by the
individual anti-malaria stations of the malaria-affected provinces. This indicator measures the
risk of malaria infection which shows the progress of malaria prevention activities.
9.           The second is measured by the deaths due to malaria as a proportion of those
infected as reported by the whole national health network. This indicator measures the
effectiveness of case management of malaria.



-91-                              Annex 1 1
VIII, IX. TB Casefinding Rate and Cure Rate
10.         The first is measured by the proportion of microscopy-confirmed TB infectives
over the symptomatics examined as reported by the district anti-TB units and confirmed by the
national or provincial TB coordinators.  This indicator measures the effectiveness of
diagnosing TB.
11.         The second is measured by the proportion of those enrolled for treatment
which have demonstrated negative microscopy findings after completing the course of
treatment. This would be reported by the districts covered by the TB Control program and
validated by the provincial or national TB control coordinator. This indicator measures the
effectiveness of TB treatment.
X. Proportion of the Population with Access to Adequate Primary Health Services
12.         "Population with access to adequate primary health services" is defined as
those people within one hour's normal travel time to a health facility with the capacity for
providing safe delivery, adequate treatment of malaria and ARI, and dispensing essential drugs
for free. In the provinces covered by the project, an estimate of the population with such
access would be made within the first year of project life, and every year thereafter, using
reported population coverage of the CHCs and DHCs. This indicator measures extent of
population coverage of this basic service provision.
XI. Share of Public Spending Allocated to Commune- and District-Level Services
13.         A table on the sources and uses of Government funds in health will be an
annual output of one of the sub-components of Component 3. This table will show the
estimates of funds coming from all parts of Government that are spent for commune- and
district-level health services. Increasing the share of public funds for this area of health
provisions indicates greater importance given to financing those services which have the
greatest likelihood of benefiting the poor. These results will be an important focus of the mid-
term review.
XII. Project Disbursement Rate
14.         Proportion of project funds actually disbursed relative to the scheduled
disbursement rate. This is an indicator of general efficiency in project implementation.
XIII. Average Time Deviation of Actual Procurement Actions with Planned Milestones
15.         Based on the project procurement plan, a critical path for the schedule of
milestones (e.g., date when technical specifications are submitted to the Bank, date when
bidding documents are issued, date when bidding is conducted, etc.) which need to be met will
be established. Actual actions along this plan will be monitored by the NHSP-PMt and the
average time deviations in weeks (+/-) will measure the efficiency of this specific aspect of
project implementation



-92-                             Annex 11
XIV. Actions Taken on Key Policy Challenges
16.         The intended outcome of Component 3 is that the Government would use the
results of the analytical work undertaken in this component to make progress in addressing
several major policy challenges facing the sector. Progress in three specific areas would be
monitored:  (a) completion and approval of a public investment plan, (b) policy statements
or commitments to project recommendations regarding the pricing of government health
services; and (c) policy statements or actions concerning project recommendations for
incentives and regulations needed for more effective private sector provision of health care.
These topics would be a central focus of the mid-term review. Completion of studies and
experiments would serve as "markers" of progress but the actual endorsement of the public
investment plan and the promulgation of specific policies recommended by the project would
be the ultimate outcome measures of Component 3.
Organization of Monitoring and Evaluation Activities
17.         The Health Statistics Unit of the MOH's Department of Planning and Finance
is responsible for the aggregation and analysis of routine health data from the provinces. It
would continue to undertake this function and, for the purposes of the project, would provide
the relevant summary statistics to the NHSP-PMU on a periodic basis. Information on public
expenditures on health as well as other relevant MOH budgetary information would be
provided by the Department of Planning and Finance. Similarly, IMPE and the NITRD would
provide reporting tables on the malaria and TB control program indicators to the PMNU for
inclusion in annual reports. The PMIU would have responsibility for obtaining data on
provincial level project management indicators from the provincial PMUs.
18.         The table below lists the indicators, and gives the proposed timing, formats and
methods to be used to collect data on these indicators as discussed with MOH. These
proposals, particularly the formats, will be further detailed and refined as a part of the Project
Launch Workshop.



-93-                                        Annex 1 1
Table 11.1 PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Component            Indicator            Timing          Format                 Method
(Project
Objective)
A. Grass Roots   1. Numnber of Improved   Semi-annual     Table 1-1,    District supervisor fills out
Ifealth        CHCs/Total Targeted  report, starting   1-2, and 1-3    Table 1-1 at CHC; provincial
Services       CHCs                  from July 1996                  supervisor fills out table 1-2 at
(Objective I)                                                         DHC; provincial project
manager aggregates table 1-3,
then sends to PMU/MOH
2. Number of Improved   Semi-annual      Table 2-1 and  Provincial supervisor fills out
DHCs/Total Targeted  report, starting  2-2           table 2-1 at DHC; provincial
DHCs                 from July 1996                  project manager aggregates table
2-2, then sends to PMUJMOH
3. Utilization of CHCs   Monthly report,    Table 3-1 and  District project manager collects
starting from     3-2           data at the monthly-meeting
January 1997                    with CHC heads, and fills out
table 3-1; provincial project
manager aggregates table 3-2,
then sends to PMU/MOH
4. Infant Mortality    Annual            Regular       Data collected by routine MOH
Rate                                 reporting      reporting systems and special
S. Maternal Mortality    Annual         tables from    surveys
Rate                                  MOH
B. National       6. Malaria Prevalence    Semi-annual     Regular       Data will be collected by
Disease         7. Malaria Case        report, starting  reporting     malaria control system,
Control          Fatality Rate         from July t996    tables issued   aggregated by IMPE and sent to
Programs                                                 by IMPE       PMU/MOH
(Objective 2)
8. TB case-finding Rate  Semi-annual     Regular       Data will be collected by TB
9. TB Cure Rate       report, starting   reporting     control system, aggregated by
from July 1996    tables issued   NITRD and sent to PMUJMOH
by NITRD
C. Strengthen     10. Access to Primary    Annual report,  Table 4       PMU/MOH collects data from
Planning &         Health Care         starting from                   provinces and fills out table 4
Management         Services            December 1996
(Objective 3)
11. Public Funding to    Annual report,  TBD           Aggregate national level data to
Commune- and        starting from                   be collected by Dept. of P&F.
District-level      December 1996                   For project, PMU/MOH collects
Primary Health Care                   Table 4       data from the 15 provinces and
Services                                            fills out table 4
12. Progress on Project   Semi-annual    Table 5       PMU/MOH collects data from
Disbursement        report, starting                provinces and fills out table 5
from July 1996
13. Progress on Credit   Semi-annual    Table 5        PMU/MOH collects data from
Procurement        report, starting                 provinces and fills out table 5
from July 1996
14. Actions in Key     Semi-annual      TBD (would   Dept. of P&F would compile
Policy Areas       report, starting    include a list   and forward to PMU/MOH
from July 1996    of studies and
experiments
completed,
and key
recommenda-
tions
adopted)



-94-                                   Annex I 1
Table 1-1      Improvement of Commune Health Center
Semi-annual Report, Commune Level
Province:                      District:                 Commune:
Basic Set of Medical    Regular Supply of      Adequate and Well-    Training on MCH/FP &
Equipment            Essential Drugs       maintained Building     Endemic Diseases
Good  | Modest | Poor   Good  | Modest  Poor   Good  | Modest  Poor   Good | Modest  Poor
Remark: check one of the three conditions for each project input.
Signature of District Supervisor: _            Datet:
Table 1-2        Improvement of Commune Health Center
Semi-annual Report, District Level
Province:                       District:                  Total Number of CHCs:         -
Basic Set of Medical    Regular Supply of      Adequate and Well-    Training on MCH/FP
Equipment            Essential Drugs       maintained Building    & Endemic Diseases
Number CHCs which are    Number CHCs which are    Number CHCs which are   Number CHCs which are
Good   Modest  Poor   Good  |iodest  oor   Good   Modest  Poor   Good   Modest  Poor
Remark: fill out the number of CHCs in this province which meet one of the three conditions for each
project mput.
Signature of Provincial Supervisor:               Date:_
Table 1-3      Improvement of Commune Health Center
Semi-annual Report, Provincial Level
Province:                       Total Number of CHCs:
Basic Set of Medical    Regular Supply of     Adequate and Well-    Training on MCH/FP
Equipment           Essential Drugs       maintained Building    & Endemic Diseases
Number CHCs which are  Number CHCs which are  Number CHCs which are   Number CHCs which are
Good   Modest  Poor  Good              oor  Good  I Modest  Poor   Good   Modest  Poor
Remark: fill out the number of CHCs in this province which meets one of the three conditions for
each project input.
Signature of Provincial Project Manager:               Date:



-95-                                   Annex 11
Table 2-1       Immrovement of District Health Center
Semi-annual Report, District Level
Province:                     District:
Basic Set of Medical    Regular Supply of    Adequate and Well-    Training on Equipment
Equipment          Essential Drugs      maintained Building     Operation, Supervision
& Hospital
Management
Good   Modest  Poor  Good  Modest  Poor  Good   Modest  Poor    Good   Modest  Poor
Remark: check one of the three conditions for each project input.
Signature of Provincial Supervisor:                   Date .-
Table 2-2       Improvement of District Health Center
Semi-annual Report, Provincial Level
Province:                       Total Number of DHCs:
Basic Set of Medical    Regular Supply of      Adequate and Well-   Training on MCH/FP
Equipment            Essential Drugs      maintained Building    & Endemic Diseases
Number DHCs which are    Number DHCs which are   Number DHCs which are   Number DHCs which are
Good  | Modest I Poor   Good   Modest I Poor   Good  IModest  Poor   Good IModest PI'oor
Remark: fill out the number of CHCs in this province which meets one of the three conditions for each
project input.
Signature of Provincial Project Manager:                   Date:



-96-                                Annex 11
Table 3-1       Utilization of Commune Health Center
Monthly Report, District Level
Province:                District:              Total Number of CHCs:_
Name of CHC                Number of      Number of Out-  Number of Well-
Deliveries     patient Visits    baby Visits
Total Number:
Average per CHC:
Signature of District Project Manager:               Date:
Table 3-2      Utilization of Commune Health Center
Monthly Report, Provincial Level
Province:             _ Total Number of District:
Name of District    # of     Number of       Number of Out-    Number of Well-baby
CHCs        Deliveries       patient Visits          Visits
Total #  Average/   Total #  Average/    Total #   Average/
CHC               CHC                 CHC
Signature of Provincial Project Manager:               Date:



-97-                                         Annex 11
Table 4          Access to and Fundin2 to Primary Health Services
Annual Report
Name of        Access to Primary Health Services           Funding of Primary Health Services
Province
District Level         Cornnmune Level
Total Population  % of People w/Access   Central    Prov. Fund  Central     Prov. Fund
Fund                    Fund
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
1 5            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _          _ _ _ _ _ _
Signature of Director of PMU/MOH:                                Date:-
Table 5               Proiect Imniementation Pro2ress
Semi-annual Report
Bids Opened      Bids Opened      Completion of   Completion of    IDA Credit          Counterpart
for Eq uipment      for Dirugs      CW at CHCs    CW at DHCs    Disbursement              Fun ing
Planned  Actual   Planned   Actual   Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual   Planned   Actual   Planned  Actual
Date    Date    Date      date     #          #                      Amt.    Amt.    Amt.    Amt
Signature of Director of PMUI/MOH:                               Date:



-98-                              Annex 12
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
ACTIVITIES TO ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ETHNIC MINORITY POPULATIONS
1.          The Population and Family Health Project (PFHP) will undertake a number of
surveys and pilot efforts the results of which will be utilized in the implementation of the NHSP.
The PFHP will conduct three major surveys (baseline, mid-term review, and final evaluation) for
the purposes of project evaluation, conduct three major studies that will measure the project
impact of family planning and family health interventions that cannot be readily measured using a
population-based survey sample; and conduct special surveys and studies to evaluate the special
needs, and appropriate strategies for meeting those needs, for the major ethnic minority
populations.
Special Surveys and Studies to Address the Population and Family Health Needs of the
Major Ethnic Minority Populations
2.          With the exception of the Han, all of the major ethnic groups in Viet Nam are
known to be demographically disadvantaged relative to the Kinh, with higher rates of both fertility
and infant mortality. Little information exists, however, to understand the underlying reasons for
their disadvantage.
3.          The ten major ethnic minority populations will be over-sampled in the survey
instruments and special studies mentioned above.  Additional participatory studies, to be
conducted among each of the ten major ethnic groups, will address their special population and
family health needs. These assessments will be conducted using focus-group methodology among
various sub-groups of the ethnic minority populations, including women of reproductive age, men
of reproductive age, adolescents, grand-mothers, traditional birth attendants or others found to be
important to decision-making processes in family health.
4.          Topics to be addressed will include, but are not limited to, the following issues:
(a) Beneficiary-needs assessments: These special studies will allow members of the
ethnic minorities to communicate what population and family health needs they have
that could reasonably be expected to be fulfilled during the project.
(b) Knowledge, attitudes, and practice of family planning: Contradictory impressions
exist regarding the acceptability of family planning services in Viet Nam.  The
Committee for Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Areas (CEMMA) suggests that the



-99-                               Annex 12
issue of family planning can be sensitive to certain ethnic groups since they do not
want to adopt any practice that may jeopardize their cultural identity and preservation
as a distinct ethnic group. In contrast, preliminary studies suggest that non-use may
simply reflect lack of accessibility and poor method mix.
(c) Care during pregnancy and delivery: In order to gain a fuller understanding of
pregnancy- and delivery-care, special focus groups should be conducted with pregnant
women, new mothers, traditional birth attendants, and relevant family members.
Questions should solicit information on the dietary practices of pregnant and
breastfeeding women, supplementation (if any) with vitamins, work habits, traditional
practices and beliefs, practices in the event of an obstetric emergency, transportation
options, etc.
(d) Family health care: Suggested topics for this component include traditional practices
for the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases (including malaria),
immunization practices, the use of traditional healers, and the reasons for non-use of
CHCs.
Special Strategies for Ethnic Minorities
5.           Findings of the Baseline Survey Exercise: Most ethnic groups are known from
census and survey data to be poor, poorly-educated and isolated. It is therefore not surprising that
their demographic profile is unfavorable. However the proximate determinants of their fertility
and mortality levels and patterns have been little studied. A first step in the design of any special
strategy is therefore a set of baseline surveys and participative baseline studies. A model exercise
of this kind was conducted as part of PFHP project preparation in Dac Lac province
6.           The major findings of the participative studies conducted in Dac Lac among a
number of minority groups were as follows:
(a) family planning, modern contraception and modern health care appear to be very
acceptable to minority women, couples and communities
(b) Government and health workers are not always in touch with community attitudes and
interests in the health and family planning sectors and communications between
program staff and communities need to be improved
(c) there is considerable unsatisfied demand for temporary methods of contraception in
many minority communities, particularly pills and injectables
(d) health facilities in minority areas were often dilapidated and poorly equipped and
supplied



-100-                               Annex 12
(e) there is a severe deficiency of good-quality IEC materials and activities in minority
communes
(f) there is a large reservoir of interested and motivated minority community members
who could be tapped for extension, outreach or community-based distribution work
for family planning and health
(g) there is a need for refresher training for health and FP staff, particularly for family
planning, with emphasis on counseling skills and up-to-date knowledge of modern
contraceptive methods
(h) there is a need to develop new and specialized approaches to the provision of health
and family planning services in minority areas, with the emphasis on recruitment and
specialized training programs for minority community-based workers.
7.          In line with the above, field observations during project preparation identified the
following major problems in the delivery of primary health care and family planning in remote
mountainous areas:
(a) long travel distances between villages and CHCs, resulting in low utilization of CHCs
and heavy dependence on DHC mobile teams to provide services
(b) serious understaffing of CHCs, with many empty facilities used only as premises for
visiting DHC teams
(c) serious shortages of minority health workers, due to low educational levels among
minority groups
(d) low skill levels among minority health workers, for the same reason
8.           Outline of a Special Strategy for Health and FP Service Delivery in Remote
Minority Areas: Based on the above findings, plus available information from other sources, the
outline of a set of special strategies for delivery of health and family planning services in minority
areas that are remote and mountainous, and hence isolated and underserved at the present
moment, has been developed for introduction and testing under the project. Details will be refined
on the basis of the full findings from the baseline surveys and studies to be conducted as a first
step, but a preliminary set of possible interventions has been identified. Its principal approach is to
adapt the standard Viet Nam model of service delivery to the special needs of remote areas and
minority cultures by upgrading, strengthening and expanding outreach, access and community-
level or community-based services and promotive activities. Major features are as follows:
(a) Adaptation of the CHC Model for Remote Mountainous Areas: Since larger in-
patient CHC facilities which can do deliveries will not be utilized in remote mountainous areas,



-101-                             Annex 12
only small outpatient facilities will be provided in such areas under Component I of the project (as
well under the NHSP).
(b) Establishment of Health Posts: A model health post system would be tested in 60
communes in remote mountainous areas in the 15 PFH project provinces, and expanded under
Component 1 to all such areas in the 15 project provinces if successful. For a commune to be
eligible for coverage by the system, it must fulfill the following criteria:
(i) the CHC must have at least 3 health staff
(ii) the CHC must be at least 4 hours walking distance from the nearest DHC
(iii) there must be strong commitment from the Provincial People's Committee
A health post would be set up in one village in each commune. It would consist of two
small rooms, one of which would be a consultation room/office and the other a bedroom. Basic
furniture, medical equipment, a selection of essential drugs, and a bicycle for household visiting
would be supplied. The health post would be staffed by one of the CHC health workers, on either
a rotational basis or as a permanent assignment, according to the choice of the workers. The
health worker in residence would provide basic IEC and services for MCH/FP, including the
distribution of appropriate contraceptives and some minor curative care. In the separate new
collaborator system to be also tested (see below) the health post could be staffed by the new
collaborator.
(c) Establishment of Family Health Workers: Remote mountainous areas and minority
areas would participate in the new collaborator model system to be tested under Component 5
and extended to cover the 15 project provinces if successful under Component 1; out of the total
45 communes selected for testing, 22 would be in remote mountainous areas and another 5 in
midland and mountainous areas that are not considered remote. In remote areas, 7 full-time
collaborators would be recruited per commune (compared to 3 in delta communes and 5 in the
midland/mountainous areas) and each would be given a bicycle to facilitate household visiting. If
both the health post and the new collaborator systems are successful, the health posts could be
staffed by collaborators as an alternative to CHC staff
(d) Additional Transport for DHC Outreach: Under Component 1, DHCs in remote
mountainous areas would be provided with extra motorcycles (and in the Mekong Delta, motor
boats) in order to enhance their outreach capabilities. The vehicles would be used by the DHC
mobile teams for EPI, FP and control of endemic diseases. The project would also finance
maintenance and operating costs for the vehicles. The impact of this additional transport would be
evaluated at the end of the project and continued under regular health/FP budgets if judged
essential to full functioning of the DHC mobile teams.
(e) Special Training Strategy for Remote Mountainous Areas: Because of the lack of
local minority candidates with adequate minimum educational qualifications (completion of high



-102-                               Annex 12
school), health staff in these areas are at least 80 percent Kinh. Even so, there is an acute shortage
of CHC health workers, with more than 50 percent of the approximately 500 communes in the
remote mountainous areas of the 15 project provinces currently lacking any resident CHC staff
Such CHCs must be staffed by a seconded DHC worker. Skills of minority health workers, where
they exist, also often need improvement. Thus special strategies for pre-service and in-service
training will be implemented in the 15 project provinces in order to both increase minority worker
numbers and upgrade skills of existing minority staff, as follows:
(i) Pre-Service Special Training: About 300 minority health workers with below-
standard educational qualifications would be recruited and trained as "family
health workers" to serve in CHCs. They would receive a short basic training
course of about one month, plus two supplementary courses of the same length
to follow later once the workers were in service. Those who showed promise
could later take the regular primary midwife pre-service course at the provincial
secondary medical school and then be upgraded to the level of primary midwife.
(ii) In-Service Special Training: Frequent refresher training would be provided to
the approximately 500 minority workers stationed in CHCs in the remote
mountainous areas, in order to upgrade and maintain their skills. The training
schedule would comprise four short courses per year of about two days each.
(iii) Special Training Methodologies: All the in-service and pre-service training
described above would take place at the DHC in order to facilitate attendance.
DHCs would be provided with the necessary teaching aids. Training
methodology and materials would be adapted to lower educational levels
through: an emphasis on practical skills and demonstration models; heavy use of
pictorial materials; translation of training materials into local minority
languages; and special training of DHC trainers in the use of these special
methodologies and materials.
A reference manual adapted to this modified training approach will be developed and
provided to all minority CHC workers (including family planning workers) in remote mountainous
areas throughout the country, except for the NHSP provinces where it would be provided under
NHSP financing.
(f) Special Family Planning Approach for Minority Groups: The project as a whole
responds to the findings above through support of increased access to and promotion of modern
temporary methods such as pills and injectables, as well as improved models of IUD. However,
special approaches will be designed and implemented to adapt family planning services to the
particular conditions, needs and preferences of minority communities. This will be done after the
results of the baseline surveys and studies are available for guidance, and will be based on them. It
is expected that these special approaches will include:



-103-                               Annex 12
(i) emphasis on promotion and provision of modern temporary methods
(ii) custom-designed and high-quality IEC programs and materials for at least the largest
minority groups
(iii) particular attention to counseling, community participation and community-based
activities and programs.



VIET NAM
NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Key Activities
Calendar Years                           CY95          CY96         CY97         CY98         CY99   |CY2000  I  CY2001 I    CY2002               I CY2003
Quarters                           1  2  3  41   2  3  41 1  2  3  41 1 273  41 1  2  3  41    2  3  41    2  3  41    2  3  41    2  34
IBRD Fiscal Years                               FY96    |   FY97          FY98    I   FY99    I  FY2000   I  FY2001 I    FY2002   I FY2003
Vietnamese Fiscal Years             |    FY95          FY96                      FY98         FY99        FY2000        FY2001       FY2002       FY2003
Project Years                      Prep. Year        1            2            3             4            5            6           7            8
A. Assistance to Grass Roots Health Services
1. District Level Services
Facilities Renovation                                                  *
Medical Equipment Provision
Essential Drug Supply                                                     1                          l            l **1*  _
2. Commune Level Services
Facilities Renovation                                                      II
Medical Equipment Provision
Essential Drug Supply                          _1*****_  l                                                        l            1
3. Re-training of Local Health Workers
Technircal Assistance
Workshops
Training Equipment
Module 1: MCH/FP for CHC Workers                                I         _ _  _  _ I  I  I  I  I       _  _
Module 2: Endemic Disease for CHC Workers                        ***   *l f                EK              O_ __II
Module 3: Equipment Use for DHC Staff
Module 4: Field Supervision                                            _  _         I        I         I     l
Module 5: District Hospital Management                                _  _      _         _     _         _      LI11
4. Project Supervision/Evaluation
B. Assistance to TB. Malaria. ARI Programs
1. Assistance to National TB Program
Clinical Training
Equipment & Vehicle                                             t 
Anti-TB Drug                                                                                                                           W    . - 
Patient Treatment
Operational Research _



VIET NAM
NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Key Activities
Calendar Years                            CY95          CY96         CY97         CY98          CY99        CY2000       CY200I        CY2002        CY2003
Quarters                            1  2  3   41 1 2  3  41 1  2  3  41 1  2  3  41 1  2  3  41 1  2  3  41 1  2  3  41 1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
IBRD Fiscal Years                               FY96          FY97         FY98          FY99    I  FY2000   I  FY2001   I  FY2002      FY2003          i
Vietnamese Fiscal Years                   FY95          FY96         FY97         FY98          FY99        FY2000        FY2001       FY2002        FY2003
Project Years                       Prep. Year        1            2             3            4            5             6           7            8
2. Assistance to National Malaria Program
Disease Control                                         .                                     l                        5  >      :4:     .
Anti-Malaria  Drug                                                           \:ix.        *.C.N.  Si.   ...    .      ... ...
Anti-Malaria Equipment                                                .      N .c s9. . Si.Jj I SsB
Special Surveys                                      M   . s           i .  *ii:$ *y* itt:, 4*s4:'fX
Vector Control
Vehicle & Equipment                                          '                     .c- A  w5: txw
Pesticides                                        4    5'4..                              + E       4  r          l   .. Bi-i
Bednets                                                M   4.        .             ,       B          9                 44:4   :44*t        9SS                                    _
3. Assistance to National ARI Program
Assistance to District Hospitals
Training
Drug Supply                                     3                                             :    4      5 s              4          S
Equipment
Technical Assistance
Foreign TA                                                                           i Y                <                   
Local Consultant                                            e  S  c  c  c- c          .,, ::-i.., :...   44 :;  4
C. Strengthening MOH's Planning & Management
1. Public Expenditure Review
2. Mobilizing Private Finance for Health
3. National Health Survey
Survey Preparation                           i 0
Survey Implementation
Policy Analysis



-106-                             Annex 14
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
1.   IDA Supervision Input. The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, supervision
report preparation and correspondence (estimated for this project to require six staff weeks
per year throughout project implementation).
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a) Annual work plans and budgets for the project would be prepared by each central
MOH department and institute responsible for implementing specific project activities,
and  each  participating  province.   The plans and  budgets of the central
departments/institutes would be reviewed by the appropriate technical and financial
staff of the MOH and the Project Management (PMU). The plans and budgets of the
provinces would be reviewed by the Project Director and PMU, and would be agreed
upon between the PMU and the provinces. The PMU would consolidate the plans and
budgets of the provinces and the departments and institutes into an overall annual
project plan.
(b) Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared by the PMU in a format to be agreed
upon with IDA during the project launch mission. The reports would: (i) include a
concise, narrative section describing major project achievements and problems
encountered; and (ii) utilize a simple, tabular account to show details of actual
accomplishments compared to agreed upon plans. The initial progress report would
be due on December 31, 1996, with succeeding reports due on June 30 and December
31 of each year until project completion. The reports would constitute the basis for
the semi-annual project performance reviews to be conducted by the Government and
IDA.
(c) Monitoring and reporting of implementation progress in accordance with the annual
plans would be the responsibility of the PMU, with inputs from the relevant MOH
departments/institutes and the provincial PMUs. The PMU would also be responsible
for organizing annual workshops to review implementation progress with provinces,
which would be timed to support the annual updating of operational plans and budgets
(see below).
(d) The PMU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for supervision
missions, and for providing information required by missions. Mission briefings upon
arrival and wrap-up meetings would be presided over by the Project Director or a
designated representative.



-107-                             Annex 14
(e) The PMU would prepare and submit to IDA within six months of the Closing Date a
final evaluation report on the project and a plan for the future operation of the
completed project.
3.    Field Supervision Plan
Approximate                                               Staff Input
Dates                    Activity                        (staff-weeks)
03/96       Project launch/initial supervision mission          6
09/96       Semi-annual review mission                          4
03/97       Semi annual review mission                          4
09/97       Semi-annual review mission                          4
03/98       Semi-annual review mission                          8
09/98       Semi-annual review mission                          4
03/99       Mid-term review mission                             4
09/99       Semi-annual review mission                          4
03/00       Semi-annual review mission                          4
09/00       Semi-annual review mission                          4
03/01       Semi-annual review mission                          4
09/01       Semi-annual review mission                          4
03/02       Semi-annual review mission                          4
09/02       Semi-annual review mission                          4
03/03       Final supervision/ICR mission                       8
Note:     ICR = Implementation Completion Report
(a) Semi-annual reviews of project performance would be normally be held in March and
September of each year to assess progress in project implementation.
(b) A comprehensive mid-term review would be completed on December 31, 1998 to
determine any need for modification to the design and implementation targets of all
project components.
(c) Each IDA supervision mission would: (i) require at least two weeks in the field, (ii)
the services of specialists in public health and project management/implementation on
a regular basis; and (iii) review progress of procurement and civil works, financial
statements and disbursements, Credit covenants, and the implementation of technical
assistance and training activities. Specialized skill requirements would be added to the
missions according to needs identified by previous supervision missions and would
include, among others, the following: malaria and TB control programs, training,
logistics, health finance, and sample survey methodologies.



-108-                             Annex 14
(d)  At least one of the two semi-annual reviews would be held jointly with the project's
cofinanciers, who would provide both general supervision and additional specialized
skills.
3.    Proposed Specific Supervision Activities By the Borrower
In light of the MOH' s lack of experience with IDA procedures and the comprehensive
nature of the project, the following supervision schedule and activities have been discussed
with the borrower. The details of these arrangements will be finalized during the Launch of
Project Workshop.
(a) In January of each project year, the PMU would organize a Procurement Supervision
mission with participation by representatives from the Medical Equipment and
Construction Department, Bidding Evaluation Committee, etc. It would visit three
provinces and would examine:
* the bidding procedures for civil works,
* the progress of civil works construction;
*  the maintenance of completed buildings;
* the distribution, storage and utilization of essential drugs;
* the installation, operation and maintenance of equipment;
The procurement plan for that year would be discussed during the mission.
(b) In June of each project year, a Financial Supervision mission would be organized by the
PMU with the participation of representatives from Ministry of Finance, State Bank
and Auditing Agent, etc. It would visit three provinces and would examine:
* the Credit disbursement progress;
* the availability of counterpart funds;
* book-keeping and accounting procedures;
Project/program officers from adjacent provinces would be called for a Semi-annual
Meeting at this occasion to review the implementation progress in the past six months,
and to prepare the Semi-annual Report.
(c) A Project Supervision mission would take place each November, which would be
organized by the PMU with the participation of representatives from MPI, MOF,
MOH and NCPFP, etc. It would visit three provinces to review the implementation
progress of each component of the project. The Annual Meeting would be called at
this occasion, attended by project officers from all 15 provinces and national program
officers. The Meeting would evaluate the implementation progress during the past 12
months, then prepare the Action Plan and budget for the next year.



-109-                             Annex 14
(d) In March and September of each year, IDA would send two supervision teams. These
missions would visit three provinces each time, thus making it possible for IDA to visit
all 15 provinces over the life of the project.
(e). The following table indicates the arrangement of supervision activities in each project
year. Every project province would be visited at least once a year by the PMU, and
each field visit would involve site supervision down to the district and commune level.
Month              PMU/MOH             Provinces          IDA
January            Procurement
supervision. (Visits
to three provinces)
February
March                                                     Comprehensive
supervision. (Visits
to three provinces)
April
May
June
Financial
supervision. (Visits
to three provinces)
July                                   Semi-annual
Meeting
(selected provinces)
August
September                                                 Comprehensive
supervision. (Visits
to three provinces)
October                                Annual Meeting
(all provinces)
November           Project
supervision. (Visits
to three provinces)     .
December



-110-                            Annex 15
VIET NAM
National Health Support Project
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Viet Nam: Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review. World Bank, 1992.
2.    Viet Nam: Children and Women: A Situation Analysis-1994. UNICEF, Hanoi,
April 1994.
3.    Viet Nam: Poverty Assessment and Strategy. World Bank, 1995.
4.    Health Statistics Yearbook-1994. Health Statistics and Information Division,
Ministry of Health, Hanoi, April 1995.
5.    Health Statistics of Viet Nam--1990-1992. Health Statistics and Information
Center, Ministry of Health, Hanoi, 1993.
6.    Viet Nam: Demographic and Health Survey. National Committee for Population
and Family Planning, Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, 1990.
7.    Tunyavanich, N. Training and Pilot Study on "In-depth Health Seeking Behavior
Study for Child and Family Health ". Report prepared for UNICEF-Hanoi, April
1992.
8.    The Health Status of Ethnic Minority Groups Living in Lao Cai and Gia Lai
Provinces. A Study Commissioned by the International Federation of Red Cross
and Red Crescent Societies, Hanoi, March 1993.
9.    Smithson, Paul. Health Financing and Sustainability in Viet Nam. (Draft).
Report for The Save the Children Fund (UK). April 1993.
10.   Guldner, M. and Rifkin, S. Sustainabiity in the Health Sector. Part I: Viet Nam
Case Study. Report for The Save the Children Fund (UK). May 1993.
11.   Doi Moi and Health. SIDA Evaluation Report 1992/3. SIDA, Stockholm, 1992.
12.   National Strategic Plan for the Prevention and Control of HI V/AIDS in Viet Nam
(1994-2000). National Aids Committee of Viet Nam, Hanoi, December 1993.
13.   National Health Support Project. Component 3: Support to Strengthening
Planning and Management of the Ministry of Health. August 1995.



-111-                            Annex 15
14.   National Health Support Project. Training Under the National Health Support
Project. August 1995.
15.   World Bank Assistance to the National Malaria Control Program of the Socialist
Republic of Viet Nam. Project Proposal. Institute of Malariology, Parasitology,
and Entomology, Ministry of Health, Hanoi, February 1995.
16.   Development Plan for the National Tuberculosis Program. Institute for
Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases, Ministry of Health, Hanoi, 1994.
17.   The Problem of Tuberculosis in a Changing Viet Nam. Report by the Medical
Committee Netherlands-Viet Nam and the Royal Netherlands Tuberculosis
Association. September 1994.
18.   Taguiwalo, M. Background Note: Issues in Public Health Service Delivery and
Financing in Viet Nam. June 1994.
19.   Taguiwalo, M. Note on the Grassroots Health System in Viet Nam. June 1994.






MAP SECTION






'X' .                                                                            h      ,             CHINA
MYANCL                       (I.
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Bangf.s                                        CHINA                                   ) 
THAILAND      _ \ TAP
L Li  SIPov (C h ou
>~ ~   ~    ~ ~~o P^    14   inca oo    1 dong Gal                                                    'C 
Yon B., *-  >   ]  %   ; Don            hong                                                 Y
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I0
-                                                                            20 5< oF>ih Binh                                                             20
LAO PEOPLE'S                                           hot'Hoa                                      VIET NAM
DEMOCRATIC                                                h I
REPUBLIC  *'-    -21                                                                  NATIONAL HEALTH
SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Provinces
Population and Fnmily Health Project Provinces
p\           \           \- ~~~~Quong
U4    Binh
Provinces:
0VDena  Ha                                          I Ho Giong
*Ong                                    2 ~~~~~~~~Tuyen Q.ong
o      Selecded Cities                                     *                                                              . jCoo Bang
4 Long San
*      Province Capitals                                                                                                  s  Loi Cho.
Notional Capitol                                                              D loO     Nang                      7  Lao Cai
Rivers                             J ~~~~~~~~~I     '~~~~C~~~U * (1 ~~~~~7 Ye. 13oi
. *  Rivers                                                                                                        S Bam Thai
-           Province Boundaries                                                                            I                         nP to Hoa Binh
-- nernationcal Boundaries                                                                                        if Howng Nihn
internatianat                                  I                       1~~~~~        ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QV0ng  12 'dnh' Ph.a
15.                                                                                                   2r  tNgai                     1.? H. Bac
South)        14 H-ni
THAILAND                                                                                            ChnKn T.  Clila  id Ha. Thong
/~-    *-* ~         <            r-J___>_,sJ r1  w_ tt    0    seo    17 haHai hng
29                      i   hiBn
.        '~~~~;      %           /    . (  /         3@      +\         1                  19~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  Noam Ho
Playr  u                       Nhon          2tih Binh
I.                                                 21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z Thonh Hoo
22 Nghe An
2t Ho Tinh
24 Q-,ng Binh
r - -IC\ CAMODIA                  \                         (                4   30 V2 Qwng Ti
h   'rO51l8\  CAMBODIA  <:B J                     (                              )               26 Thae Thien Hue
Sop                                                           B ,  u \  o } 8wn tha   T2  Quang NHao  Do Nng
Tet36                    940         27 Bn   it
1                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25Q. Qon  Ngai
A  )  ~~~~~    ~~~  \   _  5 ~~~~~~~ /      \-      J                t         2 ~~~~~~~~~29 Oi.h Oinh
. 1 r . f .> v ^ . a TnJno .JI ~~~~~~~~~Khanh Hoo
ize  W  *   y   -J   w}  \   DaLal  9 3   .12 Ninh Thwn
_ IB inh Thuon
0                                                    Ch8 6, Tay /  J P hPn    Rang  .r:i (on Tum
T      4f                           )                            \ans-.\ Doazc ,   r Lac
0.                                          4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 Lrn, Dong
.0             33                                    1 1 iJg >n Thiel .s Ho Chi Minh City
39 Song Be
-|             je/X      Ca         Ton AnLS    CitR                                                    4  Toy Ninh
|ao   Looto G,,lf of  Oz               o          ~o so  l200    2s0    tJ41 Dong Neo
X.y                            v Y   0 j,  g-                                       42 Ba Rio Vu.ng Too-Con ODo.
Iw  ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~        ~~~~  ~~~~                250 ~~~Tu41 iLang An
i(r  `~~~~.".LoC  R. ch Giq                           0                             00     250 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 44 Dong Thep
- - '^                             QuoC  Bach 0             t' Vn      9          I                        I .            I a           t  An Giong
tIiOItGflO                                                 l Onh  KtLOWERS               .e, lien Thong
47 Ben Tre
rb. b.-d.,-. _;eo-g  d--,-             48 Vinh Long
1h b  -  -tonndoons. rnIn,s. dn"oon,ho ior  J49 T,. Vin h
|h, _op db nol,mpy - th poerb ol       5  Con Tho               0
The W,Od look Gnop. -nY dg-.en
.,.                onthn@ Ingot rheoloEloof nilro,ento,,po,f  5/ Soc  Gang
3 |  r InsS 105/nDr                                no3y ndo,se,en nnoeplool,ooh           52 KienGi         oo
f  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~    n' ~110' .5. M.nh Hal









T IAOl N 0
Re port N;o:         14Q971 VN
T yp,e  -t AFR



