Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Grant Number 20884
Netherlands Grant Agreement
(National Health Support Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the NETHERLANDS
Dated June 30, 1996
GRANT NUMBER TF20884
NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1996, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the Netherlands (the 
NETHERLANDS).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to an agreement dated February 26, 1996 between the 
Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Association 
agreed to provide to the Recipient a credit (the Credit) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the Recipient declared its 
commitment to the objectives of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, and agreed to carry out the Project in accordance with 
the terms of the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS (B) pursuant to a letter agreement dated April 15, 1996 between the 
NETHERLANDS and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and 
the Association, the NETHERLANDS has requested the Bank and the Association, and the 
Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available 
by the NETHERLANDS to the Recipient (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out 
Part A(iii) of the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Technical Assistance) on 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article l;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the letter agreement between the NETHERLANDS and the 
Bank and the Association referred to in Recital (B) of this 
Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Association" 
shall also include the International Development Association 
acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Technical Assistance;
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dollars; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, 
the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawals."; and
(viii)The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Page  3
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the term "Special Account" mans the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of four million three hundred forty-four thousand five hundred eighty five 
Dollars ($4,344,585), but not to exceed the equivalent of seven million one hundred 
sixty-eight thousand Dutch Guilders (Dfl 7,168,000).
Section 2.02.(a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, for expenditures made ( or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Technical Assistance and 
to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Technical Assistance, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial, 
administrative, technical and health care practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Technical 
Assistance.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Technical Assistance in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be 
financed out of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Technical 
Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Administrator,
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  4
no later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statement of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This agreement shall become effective upon the later of its 
execution by the parties hereto and the Effective Date of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder except that if the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the 
termination of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate automatically and shall 
cease to have any further force or effect.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address:
Telex:
VIETBANK 412248 
NHTWVT
Hanoi
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
Page  5
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUl) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WI1EREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ LE Van Chau, Deputy Governor of SBV
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ R. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in US Dollar equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Consultants' services
1,111,405
100%
(2) Training
2,727,996
100%
(3) Equipment
  505,184
100% of 
foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 85% 
of local expenditures for 
other items procured locally
TOTAL
4,344,585
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4. The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
Page  6
basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient, for expenditures for:
(a)
the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than one 
hundred thousand Dollars ($100,000) equivalent;
(b)
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
fifty thousand Dollars ($50,000) equivalent; and
(c)
the purchase of equipment costing less than ten thousand Dollars 
($10,000).
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, the 
Technical Assistance shall be carried out in accordance with the following timetable:
ACTIVITY
EXPECTED DATE
1.
Mobilization of Consultants
By not later than May 31, 1996
and commencement of
Technical Assistance
2.
Delivery of Final Report
By not later than May 31, 1999
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; '
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Technical Assistance and to be 
financed out of the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator -a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b) 
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
Page  7
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect 
to the Technical Assistance, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  8
