Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2808 VN
                        Development Credit Agreement
                      (National Health Support Project)
                                   between
                        SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated February 26, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2808 VN
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1996, between SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project; and
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Swedish
International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) a grant
(the SIDA Grant) in an amount equivalent to four million seven
hundred thousand dollars ($4,700,000) to assist in financing
Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the SIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Government of the Borrower and SIDA;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Government
of the Netherlands a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount
of seven million one hundred sixty eight thousand Dutch
Guilders (Dfl 7,168,000) to assist in financing Part A (iii) of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Government of the Borrower and the Government of
the Netherlands;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
Page  2
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
            otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made; (a)
            on account of expenditures in the territories of any
            country which is not a member of the Bank or for
            goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
            United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the  context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Local Governments of the Project Provinces" means
the Provincial Peoples' Committees of the Project Provinces;
      (b)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, and
any successor thereto.
      (c)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, and
any successor thereto.
      (d)   "MPI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and
Investment, and any successor thereto.
      (e)   "NCPFP" means the Borrower's National Committee for
Population and Family Planning, and any successor thereto.
      (f)   "Project Provinces" means the provinces listed in the
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      (g)   "State Bank of Viet Nam" and the acronym "SBV" mean
the Borrower's central bank, and any successor thereto.
      (h    "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty eight million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 68,000,000).
Page  3
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2003
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1
commencing July 1, 2006 and ending January 1, 2036. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on,
January 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
Page  4
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of  the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through MOH and the Local Governments of the Project Provinces
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, technical and
health care practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto,  the
Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued
achievement of the Project's objectives; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
Page  5
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower and of the Local
Governments of the Project Provinces responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   (9) months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a) (i)  The SIDA Grant Agreement shall have failed to
become effective by June 30, 1996, or (ii) the Netherlands
Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June
30, 1996, or such later dates as the Association may agree;
Page  6
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
        (b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the SIDA
Grant or the Netherlands Grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
SIDA Agreement, or the Netherlands Grant Agreement, as the case
may be.
           (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower established to the satisfaction of the
Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agreements; and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
            (a)    the Project Steering Committee shall have been
                   established in accordance with the provisions
                   referred to in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to
                   this Agreement;
            (b)    the Project Management Unit shall have been
                   established in accordance with the provisions
                   referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to
                   this Agreement; and
            (c)    the Provincial Project Implementation Unit for
                   each of the Project Provinces shall have been
                   established in accordance with the provisions
                   of paragraph A.3 of Schedule 4 to this
                   Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Governor of the State Bank of Viet
Nam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            State Bank of Viet Nam
            49 Ly Thai To Street
            Hanoi
            Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Page  7
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   VIETBANK                      412248 NHTWVT
                   Hanoi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                       197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
                   By /s/ Le Van Bang
                                                  Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works               12,700,000        90%
(2)  Goods                     49,130,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory cost)
                                                 and 85% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally
(3)  Consultants'
     services and training      2,090,000        100%
Page  8
(4)  Program support            2,220,000        70%
(5)  Unallocated                1,860,000
                               __________
        TOTAL                  68,000,000
                               ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "Program support" means expenditures
incurred by the Project Management Unit in MOH, the Borrower's
National Institute of Malariology, Parasitology and Entomology,
and the Borrower's National Institute of Tuberculosis and
Respiratory Diseases, on account of travel accommodation,
office supplies and communication expenses related to the
implementation of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less
than $150,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts costing
less than $150,000 equivalent;  (c) services provided by
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000
equivalent; (d) services provided by individual consultants
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (e)
training and Program support; all under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
improving the health status of the rural population in the
poorer areas of Viet Nam by (i) providing high quality,
reliable primary health care on a sustainable basis; (ii)
reducing mortality and morbidity due to malaria, tuberculosis
and acute respiratory infections; and (iii) strengthening the
institutional capacity of MOH and provincial health departments
to meet the basic health care needs of the poor.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A.  Health Care Service Delivery
      Upgrading primary health care service delivery capacity in
the Project Provinces of Viet Nam by upgrading the facilities
and services provided by commune health centers and district
health centers, through: (i) provision of essential drugs and
equipment; (ii) renovation, expansion or replacement of
physical premises; and (iii) provision of in-service training
of staff.
Part B.  National Health Care Program Assistance
Page  9
      Strengthening the Borrower's national programs for
malaria, tuberculosis and acute respiratory infections through
the provision of: (i) drugs, (ii) insecticides, (iii)
equipment, (iv) vehicles, (v) training and (vi) expert advice.
Part C.  Institutional Health Planning and Management
1.    Strengthening the planning and management of public
expenditures for the  health sector by: (a) upgrading the
budgeting, accounting and operational reporting systems of MOH
and selected MOH hospitals, institutes and provincial health
departments in the Project Provinces; and (b) preparing a
public investment plan for the health sector, in each case
through the provision of equipment, expert advice and training.
2.    Improving the capacity of the Borrower to mobilize private
financing for health care services, including: (a)
strengthening the system of setting, charging and collecting
fees for publicly provided health services; and (b) developing
proposals for the expansion of the private provision of health
services, in each case through the provision of expert advice,
the carrying out of studies and training.
3.    Generating population-based household data and analysis
for health sector planning and management by designing and
implementing a national household health and medical provider
survey and analyzing and disseminating the results thereof,
through the provision of expert services and training.
                        *      *    *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003.
                         ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
                          Project Provinces
Cao Bang
Lang Son
Son La
Ha Bac
Ha Tay
Nghe An
Ha Tinh
Quang Tri
Binh Dinh
Phu Yen
Ninh Thuan
Gia Lai
Kon Tum
Tay Ninh
Soc Trang
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.         Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
Page  10
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
      Preference for domestically manufactured goods
2.    For goods to be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereof shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
(a)   Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Part C, works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.3 and  3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)   Goods (other than drugs and other pharmaceuticals)
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less per contract up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods (other than drugs and other pharmaceuticals)
estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an amount not to exceed $3,700,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date,
a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made
to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully.
Part D:   Review by Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issue of any invitations to pre-qualify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Reviews
      With respect to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000) or more; and (b) the first two contracts for works
regardless of their respective estimated costs and thereafter,
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of one
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
3.    Post Reviews
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments,
such contracts  shall be based on the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each.  However, this
exception to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a)
the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Association;  (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent
or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
A.    Project Management
1.    The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain at
all times during the implementation of the Project the Project
Steering Committee, chaired by a representative of MOH and with
representatives of MOF, MPI, NCPFP and SBV, assigned with such
functions and responsibilities, satisfactory to the
Association, as shall be required for the overall oversight of
Project implementation.
2.    The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain at
all times during the implementation of the  Project a Project
Management Unit in MOH, headed by a Manager with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association, and assigned
with such functions, responsibilities and funds, satisfactory
to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate
numbers, as shall be required for coordinating the
implementation of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Province shall
establish and thereafter maintain during the implementation of
the Project, a Provincial Project Implementation Unit, headed
by a Manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association, and assigned with such functions,
responsibilities, funds and competent staff in adequate
numbers, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be required
for assisting the Provincial Health Services Directors to
implement the Project within their respective Provinces.
Page  12
4.    The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that
each of the Project Provinces shall carry out its respective
activities under the Project and, to that end, shall make
available to each of the Project Provinces the proceeds of the
Credit and other funds allocated for such purposes.
5.    The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with a strategy, satisfactory to the Association, which shall:
(a) be designed on the basis of studies and surveys undertaken
by qualified and experienced experts under terms of reference
and timing satisfactory to the Association; and (b) include
provisions for the informed participation of, and consultation
with, a variety of representative communities in the Project
Provinces, in particular communities with Ethnic Minorities, to
ensure that the design and implementation thereafter of the
Project adequately addresses the needs and cultural preferences
of such communities. For purposes of this Part A, the term
"Ethnic Minorities" means social groups disadvantaged in the
development process and with social and cultural identity
distinct from those which constitute the predominant ethnic
group in Viet Nam.
6.    The Borrower shall establish and maintain operational
procedures, satisfactory to the Association, to adequately
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable
to the Association, progress in the carrying out of the
Project, including the implementation of the strategy referred
to in paragraph 5 above and its impact on the various
communities in the Project Provinces, in particular those with
Ethnic Minorities, as well as the overall impact of the Project
on the status of health in Viet Nam.
7.    The Borrower shall:
      (a) not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year,
commencing December 31, 1996, furnish to the Association semi-
annual reports on the implementation of the Project,
satisfactory to the Association, including the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out pursuant to
paragraph A.6 of this Schedule; and
      (b) by March 31, 1999 undertake a mid-term review with the
Association to assess the overall implementation of the Project
and any proposed measures resulting from the monitoring and
evaluation activities carried out by the Borrower pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph A.6 of this Schedule to further
achieve the objectives of the Project.  For such purposes the
Borrower shall, in addition to the annual work program referred
to in paragraph A.8 of this Schedule, prepare and furnish to
the Association by December 31, 1998, a comprehensive report of
the activities undertaken under the Project.
8.    The  Borrower shall:
      (a)  by August 31 in each year, commencing on August 31,
1996, furnish to the Association for its review and comments,
a proposed annual work program and budget for Project
activities in the following calendar year; and
      (b)  thereafter, taking into account the Association's
comments, implement such annual work program during the
following twelve month period in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
9.    By September 30, 1996, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its review and comments, its proposed policy
and implementation guidelines with respect to: (a) cost
recovery for essential drugs and medical supplies to be
provided under Part A (i) of the Project; and (b) essential
drugs and medical supplies to be provided under Part A (i) of
the Project, free of charge, to beneficiaries in mountainous
Page  13
and remote communes, and thereafter, taking into account the
Association's comments, implement such policy and guidelines.
B.    Training under the Project
      The Borrower shall (a) carry out the training under each
Part of the Project in accordance with training programs
acceptable to the Association; and (b) to that end, by no later
than August 31, 1996, furnish to the Association for its review
and comment a proposed time-bound action plan for each such
training program.
C.    Commune and District Health Centers under Part A of the
Project
1.    The Borrower shall select commune health centers and
district health centers to be upgraded under Part A of the
Project in accordance with criteria acceptable to the
Association.
2.    The Borrower shall maintain the facilities of each commune
health center and district health center upgraded under Part A
of the Project in accordance with arrangements acceptable to
the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall take all such actions as are necessary
to ensure that: (a) each commune health center and district
health center in the Project Provinces shall be adequately
staffed; and (b) said district health centers be provided with
adequate funding to meet the payroll obligations of the related
commune health centers.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 11,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
Page  14
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to  the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
Page  15
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
