                                                                                          39682


                     MEMORANDUMAND RECOMMENDATION OF
                                 THE PRESIDENT OF THE
      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
                            TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
          ONA PROPOSEDAMENDMENT TO THE LOANAGREEMENT AND
                             PROPOSAL TO RESTRUCTURE
     THE HIV/AIDSPREVENTIONAND CONTROL PROJECT [LOAN7156-SC.]
                                FOR ST. KITTSAND NEVIS


1.      Isubmitforyourapprovalaproposedamendmenttotheloanagreementandproposalto
restructure the HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Project, Loan 7156-SC for St. Kitts and
Nevis.

2.      The proposed restructuringwould: (i)restatethe development objective o f the project
andrevise the monitoringandevaluation framework; (ii)simplify the project design by
realigning project components; (iii)update costs o fproject activities; (iv) introduce changesto
the institutionalarrangements to clarify rolesandresponsibilities o fthe implementingagencies
involved inproject execution and strengthen capacity for project implementation; and, (v) extend
the project closingdate by one year to allow adequatetime for completionofproject activities.
These changes will require amendments to the loan agreement.

3.      Recommendation. Iam satisfied that the proposed amendment to the loan agreement
andproposed restructuring o fthe St. KittsandNevis HIVIAIDS PreventionandControl Project
[Loan 7156-SCI would comply with the Articles o f Agreement o f the Bank Irecommend that
the ExecutiveDirectorsapprove this proposal inaccordance withthe terms o fthis Memorandum
andattached Project Paper. Uponapproval, the LoanAgreement will be amended accordingly.


                                                           Paul D.Wolfowitz
                                                           President




                                                           By Graeme P. Wheeler


WashingtonD C
March 21,2007


                               DATA SHEET TEMPLATE FOR

                                       PROJECT PAPER




                                              Environmentalcategory: B


Responsible agency: Ministryo f Finance, Sustainable Development, Information and




Current closing date: 06/30/2008




Revisedproject development objective/outcomes

The project development objective is to assist the Government o f St. Kitts andNevis to
control the spreado f HIV/AIDS andto mitigate its impact through: (a) scaling up
prevention services for high risk andvulnerable groups and for the general population;
(b) expanding and strengthening treatment, care and support for personslivingwith
HIVIAIDS (PLHWHA) andmitigatingthe impactto those infected and affected by the
epidemic; and (c) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministryo f Health, other
Government agencies and civil society organizations to ensure an effective multi-sectoral
responseto the epidemic.

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No.



Borrower
[BRD/IDA


Introductory Statement.

1.      The LatinAmerica and Caribbeanregionhasreviewedthe projectspreparedunderthe
CaribbeanMulti-Country HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Adaptable Program Lendingand
has found it necessaryto restructurefour of the ten projects. Restructuring o f the Dominican
Republic HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control is complete andrestructuring is underway for the
St. Kitts andNevis, Trinidad andTobago and Grenadaprojects. This Project Paper seeks the
approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the following changesinthe St. KittsandNevis
HIV/AIDSPrevention andControl Project (Loan 7156-SC) andany accompanyingamendments
to the project's legal documents. The proposedchangeswould: (i)restatethe development
objective of the project andrevisethe monitoring and evaluation framework; (ii)     simplify project
design and execution by realigning the project components; (iii) updatecosts of project
activities; (iv) introduce changesto the institutional arrangements to clarify roles and
responsibilities of the implementing agencies involved inproject execution and strengthen
capacity for project implementation; and (v) Extendthe loan closing date to June 30,2009.

Background and Reasons for Restructuring.

2.      The St. KittsandNevis HIV/AIDS PreventionandControl Projectwas partofthe
CaribbeanMulti-Country HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Adaptable Program Lending
approvedinJune, 2001. The project was approved by the Board on December 13,2002 for an
amount of US$4.05 million. The Loanbecame effective on May 29,2003. The original closing
date of the loan is June 30,2008. The project objective was to assist the Borrower incontrolling
the spreadofthe HIV/AIDSepidemic through: (a) the scaling upofprograms for theprevention,
care and control of the epidemic, targetedinparticular to HIV/AIDShigh-risk groups; (b) the
heightening of awareness with respect to HIV/AIDSinfection andprevention amongst the
Borrower's population; and(c) the strengthening of institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Health, other related Governmentagencies and civil society organizationsto ensure the
effectiveness andthe sustainability of the project.

3.      The HIV/AIDS epidemic. The average prevalenceof HIV/AIDSinthe Caribbeanis
2.3%, secondmost affectedregionafter sub-SaharanAfrica. The prevalence varies across
countries and amongpopulation groups within countries. The AIDS epidemic claimed an
estimated24,000 lives inthe Caribbeanin2005, making it the leading cause of death among
adults aged 15-44years. A total of 300,000 people are currently livingwith HIV inthe region,
including 30,000 people who became infected in2005. There are indications that the prevention
efforts are paying off inthe Bahamas and Barbadoswhere HIV prevalenceamongpregnant
women has been falling steadily since 1993. St. Kitts andNevis has anestimated HIV/AIDS
prevalenceof between 1-2% of the population aged 15-49years. Itis still concentratedinhigh
risk andvulnerable groupsratherthan generalizedinthe population. However, stigmaand
discrimination and other social factors including: patterns of sexual interactions such as age-
mixing with older meninvolved with younger women andmultiplepartnering some of which is
driven by economic coping needs can be highrisk factors.

4.      The Project has supportedGovernment efforts inprevention, treatment, care and
mitigation including: sensitization andmobilization for behavior change withina multi-sectoral
andmulti-stakeholder responseincluding small grants for preventionawarenessprojectsof
NGOs withintheir communities; voluntary counselingandtesting; managementof sexually

                                                  1

transmittedinfections; monitoring and evaluation; and, strengtheningof institutional capacity for
coordination of the national HIV/AIDS program includingestablishment and strengtheningo f
the National Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS. However, project implementationhas been
extremely slow. This has been attributed to a number o f factors: (a) weak capacity and lack o f
clarity o f institutionalarrangementswith unclear definition o f roles and assignment o f
responsibilities for the coordinatingandimplementing agencies not only for the Bank-financed
programbut for the overall national HIV/AIDSprogram; (b) cumbersome implementation
processes, andprocedures especially for procurement and financial management that impede
efficient executionof the Project; (c) specific difficulties encountered inthe procurement o f
civil works and informationtechnology, which account for a significant share o f project funds;
and, (d) low level ofbuy-inandinvolvement ofkey stakeholders outside the healthsector
namely, other line ministriesand civil society organizations inproject execution.

5.       Inadditionto the issues highlightedabove, the results framework for measuring
achievement of the development objective o fthe project needs to be aligned more closely with
project outputs rather than the nationalprogram HIV/AIDSprogramto which they contribute.

6.       Promptedby concern about the slow implementation o f the portfolio o f the ten Bank-
financed HIV/AIDSprojects inthe Caribbean, includingthe project in St. Kitts andNevis, the
Bank commissioned a multi-agencyteam (withrepresentatives from DFID, UNAIDS,
WHOPAHO, Global Fund, andthe World Bank)to review the projects andthose o f other donor
agencies inthe Caribbean inOctober, 2005. The objective o f the review was to assess the
response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic at all levels and recommend measuresto enhance its
effectiveness at the national, regionaland international levels. The team was also asked to
review the implementationo f each individual project andprovide detailed recommendations for
the project's future.

7.       As partof its task, the multi-agency team reviewedthe status ofanearlier planagreed
between the Government and the Bankteam for addressing the implementation constraints for
the St. Kitts andNevisproject. Underthe plan, the Government would: (a) Prepare a
procurement planby the second semester o f 2005; (b) Establish a National Council for
HIV/AIDSandappoint a chair to provide the leadership; (c) Submitthe Financial Monitoring
Report; and, (d) Submit a proposal for restructuringo f the project. The Bank also indicated ina
management letter that it would consider suspending withdrawals from the loan ifthe
Government failed to meet its obligations under the loanagreement.

8.       The multi-agency team submittedan overall report, "HIVIAIDS inthe Caribbean: A
multi-OrganizationReview," with recommendations for the sub-region anddetailedreports on
each o fthe projects. Withrespect to the St. Kitts andNevis project, the review team noted that
the Government was spendingits own money andthat from some other donors for HIV/AIDS
activities-signaling   that HIV/AIDS was an importantpriority for the Government. It also noted
that the Government had taken action on two important institutional and management aspects:
establishment o fthe National Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS WAC) and appointed its chair.
However, overall performance on the Bank-financedproject was still very poor. The multi-
agency review team recommended that the Bankteam undertake a deeper assessment o f
implementation o fthe project, including a determinationo f the Government's commitment to the
project as well as attention to issues identifiedon the Bank's side that needed to be addressedto
improve support to project implementation. The Bank decided to use the mid-term review
scheduled for February, 2006, to undertake the assessment.

                                                  2

9.      Inpreparation for themid-termreview andfollowing the multi-agency review, the
Government conducted a thorough assessment o f its performance inimplementationo fthe
project. The assessment was sharedwith the Bankmid-termreview missionteam. The
Government emphasized the priority it placed on the national HIV/AIDS program as
demonstrated by the fact that it had addressedtwo important institutional andmanagement
aspects inestablishing the N A C and appointing a dedicatedpersonalready actively engaged in
the fight against the epidemic through herwork as aphysician, as its chair. Furthermore, the
Government was fully engaged inimplementing HIV/AIDSinterventionsusingi s own funds as
well as funds from a number ofdonors. The Government also acknowledged the factors that had
impededimplementationofthe Bank-financedproject. For its part, the Banktook the
opportunity to implement a planfor proactivelyre-engaging the Government team and
strengthening its owntechnical support to the project, startingwith the mid-term review. It
emphasized the needto bringall key stakeholders and implementingagencies on board. The
supervision approach also aimed to foster a collaborative working relationship among all the
parties.

10.      The mid-term review missiondetermined that the Government still neededthe Bank-
financed project which i s a significant share o f the overall GovernmentHIV/AIDSprogram; and
that failure to use the funds was due to problems experienced and didnot reflect excess funding
for HIV/AIDS. The Government was also willing to take urgent action to address the factors
that had previously contributedto the slow implementationo fthe project. The Bankteam and
the Government thenused the mid-term reviewprocess to identify specific changes that needed
to be addressedto put the project back on track: reviewing the project development objective,
revisingthe results framework, updatingproject costs, refining institutional implementation
arrangements and identifying staffing needs. These changes are reflected inthe proposedrevised
loanagreement.

Proposed Changes.

11.      The projectrestructuringwill: (a) restatethe project development objective andrevise the
monitoring and evaluationframework (b) simplify project design by realigningproject
components; (c) update project costs; (d) revise the institutionalarrangements for the
implementingagencies thereby clarifying roles andresponsibilities; and, (e) extend the project
closing date by one year to enable completion o fproject activities.

12.      The project development objective is to assistthe Government o f St. Kitts andNevis to
controlthe spread o f HIVIAIDSandto mitigate its impact through: (a) scaling up prevention
services for highrisk and vulnerable groups and for the general population; (b) expanding and
strengthening treatment, care and support for persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLHWHA) and
mitigating the impact to those infected andaffected by the epidemic; and (c) strengthening the
institutionalcapacity o f the Ministryo f Health, other Government agencies and civil society
organizations to ensure an effective multi-sectoral responseto the epidemic.

13.      To simplifyproject executionthe project components have been consolidated from five
to three. The first component will support the HIV/AIDSinitiatives o f Civil Society
Organizations (CSOs), community based organizations, unions, faith based organizations, the
private sector and non-healthline ministries inline with the Government's strategy of a multi-
sectoral and multi-stakeholder responseto the epidemic. CSOs have access to at-risk but

                                                    3

difficult-to-reachpopulation groups: youth, commercial sex workers, men having sex withmen,
orphans, PLWHA and others. Support from the project will scale up ongoing activities:
information, education and communicationbehavior change communication; sensitization and
advocacy to address stigma and discrimination; distribution o f condoms and care for PLWHA
andorphans. Selected line ministriesdealing with specialized populationgroups such as the
Ministry o f Education, Youth, Social and Community and Gender Affairs (MOE) will be funded
to provide services for boththeir internal clients (theirown staff) and for their clients (e.g. school
and college students). Some ofthese ministries are already implementingHIV/AIDSactivities.

 14.     The second component will support the health sector preventionandtreatment services
which include: voluntary counseling and testing; distribution o f condoms; strengthening o f
management o f sexually transmitteddiseases, strengthening laboratory services andblood safety;
preventionof mother-to-child transmission; opportunistic infections, antiretroviral therapy and
management o f biomedical waste. Financing will cover civil works to upgrade healthclinics
which are critical for expansion of the services, training, consultant services, drugs and
equipment. The support will be complementary to the financing from the Government and other
donors such as the Global Fund, which is providing funds for treatment.

 15.     The thirdcomponent will support strengthening institutionalcapacity for program
management, monitoringand evaluation. The project will support the newly established
National Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS(NACHA); the NationalAIDS Secretariat WAS)
within the Ministry o f Healthand the strengthening ofthe Project CoordinationUnit(PCU) in
the MinistryofFinance, Sustainable Development, InformationandTechnology responsible for
procurement and financial management. The component also supports the development o f the
nationalmonitoring and evaluation framework with harmonizednationalHIV/AIDS indicators;
epidemiological surveillance and development o fthe informationplatform to enhancethe
clinical management informationsystem. Projectfunds will cover costs o f staff, consultants,
furniture, computer hardwareand software. The project results framework will be separate but
will be inline withthe nationalmonitoring andevaluationframework.

16.     Institutional arrangements and lines o f authority have been streamlined and key staff
skills identified. The NACHA will be responsible for policy making and serve as advisor for the
whole national HIV/AIDSProgram. An Executive Director for the National AIDS Secretariat
WAS) hasbeennewlyrecruitedandwill beresponsible for coordinatingthe implementationof
the nationalprogramandwill reportto NACHA throughthe PS/MOH. Specialized skills will be
added inthe areas o f communications and behavior change, monitoring and evaluation, and
information technology. The fiduciary role o fthe PCU inMOFSDI&T has been strengthened
throughthe recruitment o f a financial management specialist andthe delineationo f
responsibilities for financial management andprocurement. Implementationo f HIV/AIDS
activities has beendelegated to three types of implementing agencies: the Ministry o f Health
(MOH), other public sector ministries and agencies, and Civil Society Organizations (CSOs)
including the private sector. Procedures for engaging the three types o f implementingagencies
(MOH, other line ministries, and CSOs) have been clarified for the purpose o f achieving a truly
national response inclusive o f all stakeholders inorder to meet the objective o f reducingthe
incidence andprevalence o f HIV/AIDS. This includes establishment o f a transparent and
independent "Committee for Evaluating CSO Grant Proposals" to recommendqualifying
proposals to NAS for subsequent approval by NACHA.



                                                  4

17.     The World Bank i s not the only internationalpartner, other sources o f financing have
become available to the country adding urgencyto the need for arrangements that harmonize all
activities financed by internal and external funds. The Government plans to put inplace the
UNAIDSrecommended "Three Ones" framework: a) One NationalHIV/AIDSStrategic Plan;
b) One National Coordinating Authority, andc) OneNationalMonitoring andEvaluation
ResultsFramework. The National Strategic Planwas developed in2000 for a six year period
and requires updatingto bring it inline with changes that have occurred inthe last few years and
to harmonize inputsfrom different donors while taking into account the needto scale upthe
national response. With regardto one Monitoring andEvaluationResults Framework, an M&E
consultant has beenretained, a national team has been established, andthe Global HIV/AIDS
Monitoring and EvaluationTeam (GAMET) o f the World Bankis providing assistanceto
develop a national M&E results framework with harmonizednational HIV/AIDS indicators. The
ResultsFramework for the project has been updatedandis attached as annex 1to this paper.

18.     Economicand SocialAnalysis. The averageprevalence ofHIV/AIDS inthe Caribbean
i s 2.3%, second most affected regionafter sub-SaharanAfrica. The prevalence varies across
countries and among populationgroups within countries. The AIDS epidemic claimed an
estimated 24,000 lives inthe Caribbean in2005, makingit the leading cause o f death among
adults aged 15-44 years. A total o f 300,000 people are currently livingwith HIV inthe region,
including 30,000 people who became infected in2005. There are indications that the prevention
efforts are paying off inthe Bahamas and Barbados where HIV prevalence among pregnant
women has beenfalling steadily since 1993. St. KittsandNevis has an estimated HIV/AIDS
prevalence o f between 1-2% o f the populationaged 15-49 years. Itis still concentrated inhigh
riskandvulnerable groups rather thangeneralized inthepopulation. The levelofthe epidemic
inSt. KittsandNevis(and other Caribbean countries) is at athreshold: it caneither spiral out of
control or with concerted effort, it can bebrought down as demonstrated inthe Bahamas and
Barbados. The mode o f transmission o f HIV inSt. Kitts andNevis i s mainly through
heterosexual sex. A host o f social factors need to be addressedto halt the transmission. They
include: a highlevel o f stigma and discrimination; highpopulationmobility across the
Caribbean; age mixingwith an increase insexual relationships between older men and younger
women; multiple partnership relations, among others. The rationale for public sector financing
o f the St. Kitts andNevis HIV/AIDSprogram i s still valid. HIV/AIDS i s concentrated inthe 15-
49 age group andthis poses a significant risk to economic growth andprovides ajustification for
public sector investment to halt the spread o fnew infections. For a small economy, losses o f
productivity due to morbidity andmortality can have a disproportionate impact on economic
prospects thana larger economy with a larger labor pool. This i s especially important for an
economy that is dominated by the tourism sector which relies heavily on a productive labor
force. Priorities to be financed by the project are consistent with internationally accepted cost-
effective interventions effective for slowing down the epidemic: targeted interventions on high
riskgroups including commercialsex workers; voluntary counseling andtestingservices; control
o f sexually transmitted infections; prevention o fmother-to-childtransmission andprovision o f
anti-retroviral treatment. The support to programmanagement, upgrading o f basic health
infrastructure and the capacity for improved monitoring and evaluation through upgrading o f
healthmanagement informationsystems will extendbenefits beyond the project life and
contribute to a sustainability o fthe national program inthe medium-term.

19.     EnvironmentalAssessment. An audit ofthe OECS Solid Waste Management Project
inNovember, 2001, maderecommendationsto improvebiomedicalwaste management inSt.
KittsandNevis. Basedonthe recommendations from the audit, anumber ofactions for

                                                  5

strengthening of the biomedical waste management system for public healthfacilities were
identified. They included: training, technical assistance andnew facilities for the treatment and
disposal o f biomedical waste. The identified recommendations are still valid. While there have
been delays, the Government i s still committed to implementingthem. The Government has
acquired technical assistance through hiringa biomedicalwaste management Consultant to assist
theminimplementingthe recommendations made under the project for strengthening
management o f bio-medicalwaste. The Consultant has prepared an evaluation o f existing
practices including consultations/sensitization meetings with key stakeholders andhas made
recommendations including a series o f interventions (training, staffing, suitable equipment and
management practices). The draft report o fthe Consultant outlining the proposed way forward
has been submitted to the Bank.

20.     Changesinproiect costs andfinancing. The activities envisaged inthe original project
are still valid, however, costs have changed since project effectiveness. Costs inthe construction
businesshave risendramatically inthe last few years inthe Caribbean. This has ledto an
increase inthe cost o f civil works activities within the project. To make up for the change inthe
project costs, the Government has undertakento increase its contribution to the project from US$
460,000 to US$2.01 million. The project costs have beenrevised to take account o f changes in
prices and quantities o f different inputs inview o f Government financing and other donor inputs.

21,     Proiect Readiness. Followingthe mid-term review o fthe project, a number of actions
have beenaddressed. Two positions (the Director o fthe National HIV/AIDS Program inthe
MinistryofHealthandthe FinancialManagement Officer inthe PCU) have beenfilled. These
positions are critical for the implementation of the project. Roles and responsibilitiesbetween
the MinistryofHealthandthe ProjectCoordinationUnitwithinthe MinistryofFinance,
Sustainable Development, Informationand Technology, have beenclarified. Implementationo f
activities inthis year's work planhas been steppedup. The procurement planhas beenupdated
andprocurement is advanced for a numberof items includingthe Pogsonhealthfacility.

                                        ExpectedOutcomes

22.     Theproposed restructuringincludes arestatement ofthe Project's Development
Objective andthe monitoring matrix o f the implementationletter. The Project Development
Objective i s to assist the Government o f St. Kitts andNevis to control the spread o f HIV/AIDS
andto mitigate its impact through: (a) scaling up preventionservices for highrisk andvulnerable
groups and for the general population; (b) expandingand strengthening treatment, care and
support for persons livingwith HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) andmitigating the impact to those infected
and affected by the epidemic; and (c) strengtheningthe institutional capacity o f the Ministryof
Health, other Government agencies and civil society organizations to ensure an effective multi-
sectoral responseto the epidemic.

23.     The projectmonitoring indicators andtargetshave beenrevisedbythe Government of St.
KittsandNevis, thetask team andthe GlobalHIV/AIDS Monitoring andEvaluationTeam in
consultation with other donor partners supporting the strengthening o f monitoring and evaluation
inSt. KittsandNevis. The revisedMonitoringandEvaluationResults Framework is attached in
annex 1.

                                         Benefits andRisks


                                                   6

24.     Achieving the project objective will contribute significantly to strengtheningthe national
HIV/AIDSprogram. Benefitswill berealizedinaverted new cases ofHIV/AIDS;improved
treatment andcare to those already livingwith the virus andalleviation o f suffering by those
affected, especially orphans. Benefitswill also be realizedinthe formation o f a stronger
institutional capacity to manage the overall program andthe involvement o f key stakeholders.
Gains inimplementationo f the three ones: strategic plan, coordinating agency and one
monitoring and evaluation framework inthe context o f harmonizationo fthe nationalprogram
would be important for a strong and coordinated nationalprogram.

25.     Implementation arrangements pose a moderate risk to achievement o f project objectives.
These would arise fiom inability to fully institutionalize agreed roles andresponsibilities o f the
different agencies; weak buy-in from the non-healthline ministries and a fiduciary risk due to
failure to maintainkey financial management andprocurement staff inthe project coordination
unit.Theseriskswill bemitigatedbyregular Bank supervision andcontact withthe
implementing agency. Sustainability o f the program i s a moderate risk that would arise from
failure to mount an effective preventionprogram which would leadto increased new infections
leadingto higher costs for treatment. Government's commitment to fully utilize the Bank loan,
its own funds and funds from other donor agencies contribute to mitigating this risk. The
Government of St. KittsandNevis like other middle income countries may not be eligible for the
nextround o fthe Global Fundfinancing. This will have direct implications inthe financing of
its program. Ifthe Government draws down the Bank loan and continues to provide funding in
its budget, needs are covered over the next three years. However, it will needto take a strategic
view o f its options for sustaining its financing thereafter. The plannedrevision o f the national
strategic planto be supported by this project, will offer an opportunity to reviewthe fiture
financing needs o f the project.




                                                   7


                                                           Annex 1
                             St. KittsandNevisHIV/AIDS Prevention andControl Project
                                                    Results Framework


                                           INDICATORS               BASELINE(2006)          TARGETS

                                   1.Numberof most-at-risk          490                     2007: 550
                                       population members                                   2008: 600
                                       reachedby HIV/STI            MSM: 340
Scale uppreventionservices for         preventioninterventions in FSW 100
 vulnerable groups andfor the          the last 12months            PLWHA: 50
       generalpopulation               (disaggregatedbytype of
                                       most at riskpopulation e.g.
                                       female sex workers; men
                                       who have sex withmen)

                                   2. Number of condoms             2,577 -Nevis
                                                                    108,610 - SK            2007: 130,000
                                   distributed inthe last 12                                2008: 150,000
                                   months
                                                                    Total: 111,187

                                   3. Number of individuals         589 - SK                2007: 700
                                       counseledandtestedinthe      48-Nevis                2008: 770
                                       last 12months                Total:637

                                   4. Number of pregnantwomen       264 - SK                2007: 400
                                   reachedwithPMTCTservices         17i-Nevis               2008: 450
                                   inthe last12months               Totak435

                                   5. Number of HIV-positive        0                       2007: 2
                                   pregnantwomen receivinga                                 2008: 2
                                   completecourseof
                                   antiretroviral therapy to reduce
                                   theriskof mother-to-child
                                   transmission

                                   6. Cumulativenumber of           23 SK&N
                                                                       -                    2007: 33
 care andsupport for persons       PLWHAreceiving                                           2008: 43
     livingwithHIV/AIDS            antiretroviral therapy

                                   7. Number of PLWHAreached        1-SK                    2007: i o
                                   through homebasedor              4-N                     2008: 20
                                   community basedactivitiesor      Total:5
                                   support groups
                                   8. Number of completed           1BSS                    2007: 1(KAPB to becompleted)
                                   biologic, behaviouraland                                 2008: 1
                                   researchstudies (by type of
                                   population studiedandtype of
                                   study)
  Strengthenthesurveillance,
monitoringandevaluationand         9. Number of a) line Ministries  LineMinistries: o       2007: 4 LineMinistries; 2
  institutionalcapacityof the      andb) implementing                                       NGO/CSOs
   Ministryof Health, other        organizations e.g. NGOs/CSOs     NGOs CSOs: o
Government agencies, programme     that submitted programme                                 2008: 4 LineMinistries; 7
 managementfor an effective        monitoringforms to the                                   NGOs/CSOs
 multi-sectoral responseto the     NationalAIDS coordinating
           epidemic                authority inthelast 12months

                                   io. Amount andpercentageof       Based onMOH Total       2007/2008:
                                   governmentfunding for each      HIVBudaet ($686.805      a) Prevention: $253,000
                                   type of organizationbyHIV       rn                       Eastern Caribbean Dollars (EC);
                                   servicedelivery area             a) Prevention: $142,089 17%of total HIVbudget noted
                                   (prevention, care/treatment,     Eastern Caribbean       above
                                   mitigation, systems              Dollars (EC); 24% of
                                   strengtheningandM&E              total HlVbudget noted   b) Care/treatment: $954,000
                                                                    above                   EC; 63% of total HIVbudget

                                                                    b) Care/treatment:      c) Advocacy& Behaviour
                                                                    s175,715 EC; 30% of     Change:
                                                                    total HIVbudget         $54,000 EC; 4% of total HIV
                                                                                            budget
                                                                    c) Advocacy &
                                                               8

                                Behaviour Change:       d) Systems Strengthening:
                                $101,036EC; 17%of       Surveillance; EPI; Research&
                                total HIVbudget         M&E: $210,000EC; 14%of
                                                        total HIVbudget
                                d) Systems
                                Strengthening:          e) Sustainable management
                                Surveillance; EPI;      response: $51,000; 3% of total
                                Research& M&E:          HIVbudget
                                $14,873 EC; 3%of total
                                HIVbudget               *Data not availableby typeof
                                                        organization
                                e) Sustainable          **Percentages do not sum to
                                management response:    100 due to rounding
                                $153,092; 26%of total
                                HIVbudget

                                *Data not availableby

                                o -2006
                                typeof organization
11.Numberoforganizations
fundedbytype of organization                            2007: 15 (4 line min.; 11CBOs)
                                                        2008: io (4 line min.; 6 CBOs)
(include types of civilsociety
organizations, ministries,
privatesector and other)

12.Country counterpart                                  2007: Gov't matchesbank's exp.
contribution for HIVIAIDSin                             2.1millionbudgets for lifeof
US$ (million)                                           project
                                                        2008: not available
13. Number of line Ministries                           2007: 2
implementing work plansfor                              (Gender, Education& Labour)
HIVIAIDS
                                                        2008: 5


14. Numberof personstrained     Total: 32 participants  2007: 35 participants
(according to type of personnel Bytype of personnel:
andtype of training)            St Kitts Participants:  (I) M&Ework planworkshop
                                Nurses 7                for Line Ministries(Target
                                Orderlies 1             group: Focalpoint persons in
                                Maintenancepersonnel    line ministries andPersonnel in
                                1                       the NationalAIDS Secretariat)
                                HospitalAdministrator
                                1                       (2) SPSSWorkshop (Target
                                Supervisors 2           group: Epidemiologist,
                                Solidwaste              surveillance officers)
                                Management Personnel
                                2                       (3) Trainingindevelopment of
                                Environ. HealthOfficer  data reporting system inSt Kitts
                                1                       andNevis (Target group:
                                Pharmacist 2            Epidemiologist, surveillance
                                BiomedicalTechnician1 officers, clinicians who aidin
                                Finance Officer 1       data collection andreporting,
                                                        personnelat the NationalAIDS
                                NevisParticipants:      Secretariat)
                                Nurses 6                --Training
                                                          SPSSworkshop
                                Environ. HealthOfficer             indevelopment
                                1                         of data reporting system
                                Laboratoryassistant 3     SK andNevis
                                NationalAIDS
                                Secretariat personnel1  2008: 30 participants
                                Solidwaste personnel1   M&Eworkshop
                                Radiographer 1

                                Type oftraining
                                undergone bythe
                                above: (i)capacity
                                building for PLWHA
                                support group; (ii)
                                biomedicalwaste
                                training




                            9

