E & EERGroup                E & ER Group   Phone 510-799-2551
628 Second Street  Fax 510-799-2572
Rodeo, CA 94572 USA                 Tv2Q
Audit of Biomedical Waste
Management Practices
St. Kitts and Nevis                           E673
Prepared for:
Natural Resources Management Unit (NRMU)
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)
January 18, 2002






Table of Contents
Executive Summary ................................................i
Introduction ............................................... ii
Objectives ...............................................1
Approach ...............................................1
Inventory of Major Health-Care Facilities .............................................2
Assessment ................................................2
St. Kitts and Nevis
Laws and Regulations ................................................2
Existing Waste Treatment Technology ...............................................3
St. Kitts
Policies and Procedures ................................................4
Color Coding and Signage ................................................4
Waste Collection, Storage, and Transport ..........................................4
Waste Treatment ................................................8
Waste Disposal ................................................9
Employee Training ...............................................        10
Nevis
Policies and Procedures ...............................................  11
Color Coding and Signage ...............................................  11
Waste Collection, Storage, and Transport ........................................ 11
Waste Treatment ...............................................          12
Waste Disposal ...............................................           13
Employee Training ...............................................        14
Recommendations ...............................................              14
Short-Term Recommendations for St. Kitts ...................................... 14
Short-Term Recommendations for Nevis .......................................... 16
Long-Term Recommendations for St. Kitts and Nevis
National Laws and Regulations ............................................... 16
Institutional Policy, Administration, and Organization ................. 17
Occupational Safety and Health ............................................... 19
Waste Segregation and Classification ........................................ 19
Waste Minimization ...............................................   22
Labeling, Color Coding, and Signage ......................................... 22
Waste Collection ...............................................     23
Handling and Transport Within the Facility ................................. 24
Transport Outside the Facility ...............................................   24
Waste Treatment ...............................................      25
Final Disposal ...............................................       27
Summary of Biomedical Waste Management Procedures ......... 28



Contingency Planning ........................................          28
Employee Training and Public Education ................................... 33
Appendixr
Sources of Information ........................................ Al
Waste Disposal Policy and Procedure - JNF Hospital .............       ....... A2
Sample Institutional Policy ............         ............................ A3
Waste Minimization .........................................                 4
Sample Poster ........................................ A5
Ideas for Hazardous Waste Minimization ........................................ A6



Executive Summary
This report presents the results of an audit of biomedical waste
management practices in St. Kitts and Nevis. The audit began with
meetings with various stakeholders and site visits to the main hospitals, a
representative health center, a long-term care facility, dental office, and
waste disposal sites in St. Kitts and Nevis on November 13-15, 2001 The
following assessment is based on the information received, observations,
photo-documentation, review of relevant documents, and data obtained
after the visit.
While there are some laws and a proposed bill dealing in a general way
with biomedical waste, there are no specific regulations or guidelines on
the national level. Recommendations are made on various elements that
could be addressed in future regulations.
Incineration is the waste treatment technology in use at St. Kitts and Nevis
Unfortunately, the incinerators at JNF Hospital and Alexandra Hospital are
of obsolete designs and do not meet the generally accepted criteria for
good combustion.  Moreover, both incinerators are damaged.  The
Alexandra Hospital incinerator, in particular, is almost completely
destroyed; it operates essentially as an open-burn platform and its use
should be halted immediately. On the ground around both incinerators,
one finds partially burned residues, such as sharps, blood tubes and other
debris, which pose a serious hazard to workers. Recommendations are
made to keep these areas clean. Because of the toxic air pollutants
associated with these incinerators, recommendations are made to replace
the incinerators with treatment technologies that are more efficient,
cleaner, and have much lower adverse impacts on public health and the
environment.
The main hospital, JNF Hospital in St. Kitts, has a written waste disposal
policy that has not been implemented. No color coding or signage is used.
These problems need to be addressed in the short-term. At JNF Hospital
and Newtown Health Center, sharps are collected in cardboard sharps
containers that are not puncture resistant. Recommendations are made to
use rigid, puncture-resistant sharps containers. Newtown Dental Clinic
uses rigid, puncture-resistant containers that meet international standards.
At JNF Hospital, blood tubes are collected in empty bleach bottles; except
for the lack of biohazard markings, this is an acceptable practice. Fluids
from placenta waste are disposed in the sanitary sewer. This is also an
acceptable practice as long as health-care workers are protected from
splashes from body fluids.  Except for the lack of color coding and
biohazard markings, the method of collection of cultures is also



acceptable. The numbers of regular garbage containers and biomedical
waste containers are appropriate for the size of the facility. In-house
transport of waste is done using an open trolley. Recommendations are
made to use a dedicated, fully enclosed cart. Treated waste residues from
the incinerator are sent to the Conaree disposal area. It is recommended
that the treated waste be buried in areas not accessible to waste recyclers
or pickers.
At Alexandra Hospital, there are no written policies, no color coding, nor
signage. These need to be addressed in the short-term. Sharps waste is
collected in puncture-resistant containers that meet international
standards. Blood tubes are collected in plastic-lined corrugated cardboard
containers. Surgical and pathological wastes, as well as placenta waste,
are collected in plastic bags. Except for the lack of color coding and in
some cases biohazard marking, these practices are acceptable. Until
such time as a new treatment technology is available, it is recommended
that biomedical waste from Alexandra Hospital be buried in deep trenches
at the Low Ground disposal site; the trench areas should be fenced in with
clear waming signs and pickers should not be allowed access to those
areas.
Employee training is informal and infection control committees are either
dormant or inexistent in all facilities visited. Recommendations are made
to include biomedical waste management in formal in-service training for
employees.  Recommendations are also made to form or reactivate
infection control committees that would initially take responsibility for
biomedical waste  management in the     short-term.  Long-term
recommendations are made to form Waste Management Teams to deal
more comprehensively with waste management in the near future.
Long-term recommendations are made for St. Kitts and Nevis on various
elements of biomedical waste management. They include administrative
and organizational recommendations outlining the responsibilities of staff
members. Recommendations are also made on occupational safety and
health practices, classifications of biomedical waste, waste minimization,
color coding and labeling, specifications for collection containers, in-house
transport, transport outside the facility, recommended procedures for the
treatment  of  different  categories  of  waste  including  expired
pharmaceuticals, and final disposal. These are summarized in five tables
in the report. Specific recommendations are also made on contingency
planning, employee training, and public education.
In the appendix, resources are provided on general hospital waste
minimization as well as hazardous chemical waste minimization. A sample
policy paper and educational poster are also presented.



INTRODUCTION
This project is a component of a larger World Bank-funded program to
address the problem of solid and ship-generated wastes with the goal of
protecting the environment and enforcing the MARPOL 73/78
Convention. The program involves six members of the Organization of
Eastem Caribbean States (OECS) and is coordinated by the Natural
Resources Management Unit of OECS.
This particular component of the project deals with the management of
health-care waste and has four specific tasks: (1) an audit of medical
waste management practices, (2) review of existing medical waste
treatment technologies, (3) development of a national biomedical waste
management plan, and (4) a training program/implementation and
monitoring.
This report corresponds to the first of the aforementioned four tasks. It
was prepared by Dr. Jorge Emmanuel of the E & ER Group based in
Rodeo, California, USA. The author is grateful to Mr. Clifford Griffin of the
Ministry of Health and Mr. Theodore Mills for their invaluable assistance
during his first visit. He also acknowledges the support of Permanent
Secretaries Mr. Elvis Newton and Mr. St Clair Wallace, as well as Ms.
Nona Adams of JNF Hospital and all the personnel who provided
information at facilities in St. Kitts and Nevis.
Jorge Emmanuel, PhD, CHMM, PE, REP, DES
President, The E & ER Group
628 Second Street
Rodeo, CA 94572
USA
Ph. 510-799-2551
Fax 510-799-2572
E-mail: iemmanuelkcmindspring com



I



of 1(,1; /I mo ll"(di It: . /.J}d'"(WICI / 1°i.J1c '
AUDIT OF BIOMEDICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES
The objectives of this report are to review the current status of biomedical waste
management on St. Kitts and Nevis, and to present recommendations. The
consultant's recommendations are based on:
a) The need to safeguard public health, enhance occupational safety of health
care workers, and protect the environment without compromising patient care
b) The need to conform to generally accepted international practices and
standards related to the collection, transport, and disposal of potentially
infectious waste
c) The desirability of regional harmonization, where appropriate, of practices and
standards related to biomedical waste management.
Information for this report was obtained from meetings with stakeholders and
visits to various facilities conducted from November 13 to 15, 2001. Specific
sources include:
a) Data gathered during meetings with govemment officials, health care facility
staff, solid waste management personnel, and other stakeholders
b) Observations and photo-documentation of existing practices and technologies
during site visits to the main hospitals, clinics, a long-term care facility, and a
dental office at St Kitts and Nevis
c) A review of relevant documents
d) Responses to follow-up requests for additional information
e) Consultations with personnel from the Natural Resource Management Unit of
the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States.
Appendix Al gives a list of the facilities visited, personnel who provided
information, and documents and photos obtained.



*h!d,I i; >  BI0Inc'dI  a,t Itr'1C e  .\LZ)Id<,!;'I;(,: ['2;: I :. a
Joseph N. France (JNF) General Hospital is the main hospital in Basseterre, St.
Kitts. It was constructed in 1968 and currently has a 74-bed capacity.
Completion of new construction sometime in 2002 will expand the bed size to
150. JNF Hospital offers a range of medical services including general surgery,
radiology, obstetrics and gynecology, emergency, and pharmacy. Two smaller
hospitals offering a more limited range of services are Pogson Hospital in Sandy
Point, St. Kitts, and Mary Charles Hospital in Molineux, St. Kitts. Of these, the
consultant visited JNF Hospital.
There are eleven health centers in St. Kitts: Basseterre, Newtown, St. Peter's,
Cayon, Molineux, Tabemacle, Saddlers, Dieppe Bay, St. Paul's, Sandy Point,
and Old Road. These health centers offer matemal health, male health, and child
health clinics as well as communicable and non-communicable diseases, minor
treatment, immunization, and other services. Of these, the consultant visited
Newtown Health Center.
Alexandra Hospital in Charlestown, Nevis has a 54-bed capacity and was
originally constructed in 1951. The hospital provides a range of services including
general surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, emergency, and pharmacy. There
are six health centers in Nevis: Chariestown, Combermore, Gingerland, Brown
Hill, Cotton Ground, and Butlers. They offer the same services as the health
centers in St. Kitts. The consultant visited Alexandra Hospital in Nevis.
St. Kitts and Nevis
1.    Laws and Regulations
A country's approach to managing biomedical waste is determined in the first
place by the country's laws and regulations. The relevant legislation are: (1) The
Public Health Act of 1969; (2) The Litter (Abatement) Act of 1989; and (3) The
Saint Christopher and Nevis Solid Waste Management Corporation Act of 1996.
Directly related to biomedical waste is a section in the Solid Waste Management
Corporation Act that includes, among the duties of the corporation, the provision
of facilities for the treatment and disposal of medical waste. However, none of
these laws has any detailed provisions on biomedical waste.
There is a proposed Solid Waste Management Bill of 2000. The Solid Waste
Management Bill defines 'biomedical waste" as including 'any solid waste
containing human or animal fluids, flesh, bones or other body parts except hair."
Annex 1, Schedule 1 of the bill classifies the following waste streams, among
others, as hazardous waste:
Y1 Clinical wastes from medical care in hospitals, medical centers and clinics
2



4tI I,ht of Ri'ow;'da h ; Wa r:'c AIanlX .'c<,,  UT JZ ( tJC I.
Y2 Wastes from the production and preparation of pharmaceutical products
Y3 Waste pharmaceuticals, drugs, and medicines
There are no classifications and formal definitions of the different types of medical
waste.
Part II of the bill directs the Solid Waste Management Corporation to "identify
methods by which hazardous and bio-medical wastes and other specified classes
of solid waste substances are to be managed". Except for these general
provisions in the proposed bill, no specific regulations on biomedical waste
management exist.
Therefore, while there are some related laws and a proposed bill, there are really
no regulations governing biomedical waste management in St. Kitts and Nevis. It
is recommended that future regulations incorporate various aspects of a national
biomedical waste management plan.
2.    Existing Waste Treatment Technology
Incineration is the waste treatment technology used in St. Kitts and Nevis. The
hospitals use single-chamber, oven-style incinerators. The two incinerators
examined by the consultant at the major hospitals (JNF Hospital in St. Kitts and
Alexandra Hospital in Nevis) are damaged. Both incinerators do not meet the
criteria for good combustion and are a source of toxic pollution and hazardous
residues.
State-of-the-art incinerators generally involve a rotary kiln or dual-chamber design
with auxiliary burners and controllers to carefully control and maintain high
temperatures. The incinerator chambers must operate at about 1,500-3,000 OF
(800-1,600 IC). In the 1960's, many of the new hospital incinerators then were
dual-chamber controlled-air designs: medical waste bumed in a primary chamber
operating typically at 1,400 OF (760 OC) with controlled amounts of air, followed by
a secondary chamber operating usually between 1,800-2,200 OF (980-1,200 OC).
Controllers, auxiliary bumers in both chambers, and an air injection system were
used to maintain high temperatures. The incinerators examined by the consultant
in St. Kitts and Nevis belong to an even older generation of incinerators.
Biomedical waste incinerators are a known source of highly toxic dioxins and
furans, particulate matter (fly ash), hydrogen chloride, hydrogen fluoride, sulfur
dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, lead, mercury, cadmium, and other air
pollutants, as well as hazardous ash. Air pollution control devices, such as
scrubbers and baghouse filters, lessen but do not eliminate these air pollutants.
Dioxins and furans are considered among the most toxic substances because of
the extremely low doses at which they can affect humans and animals.
Particulate matter not only contribute to air pollution but can be dangerous in
themselves because of trace amounts of toxic chemicals that adsorb on the
surface of particulates which can then be inhaled into the lungs. Gases such as
hydrogen chloride and sulfur dioxide contribute to air pollution, form acid rain, and
can damage plants directly or through their acidity. Heavy metals such as lead
and mercury are toxic when taken into the body; they are released with the fly ash
and deposited on soil or surface water thereby contaminating the environment.
3



.Iudzu ! r o! ii:on"Cu;C( I(a  IIi If a:'l' .1 /tIa ' ( ur /), a trc'
Single-chamber incinerators, which only operate at about 550 to 750 OF (about
300-400 OC), emit black smoke and volatile organic compounds in addition to the
pollutants listed above. Unfortunately, the temperatures at which single-chamber
incinerators operate fall within the temperature range in which highly toxic dioxins
and furans are formed, i.e., 480-840 OF (250-450 IC). If proper operating
conditions are not met, incinerators also release pathogens through discharge air
and residues. Specific comments and recommendations are made below
regarding the two incinerators examined.
St. Kitts: Biomedical Waste Management Practices
i.    Policies and Procedures
JNF Hospital has a written "Waste Disposal Policy and Procedure" (no date). A
copy of the text is provided in Appendix A2. The policy was developed in the last
few years. The policy requires color coding of bags or containers: red for
potentially infectious waste, yellow for any trace chemotherapeutic waste, clear
bags for non-contaminated waste, and red or yellow puncture-resistant containers
for sharps. It also describes collection and treatment methods, e.g., use of
autoclavable red bags and on-site autoclaving for cultures. Some treatment
methods are left unspecified, such as those for sharps waste. The written policy
is a good start in standardizing color codes and categorizing waste components.
However, the policy has not been implemented.
2.    Color Coding and Signage
No color coding or signage is used in any of the health care facilities visited.
Sources indicated that color coding had not been in place before and there has
not been an impetus to change the current practices.
At JNF Hospital, health care staff reported that yellow bags have been used on
rare occasions for highly infectious waste (described as waste from patients with
HIV). However, this contradicts the written policy that yellow bags are to be used
for trace chemotherapy waste.
Color coding and signage are important aspects of waste segregation for effective
waste management, protection of public health, and occupational safety. They
are the generally accepted standards for handling health-care waste. The lack of
color coding and signage is a serious problem that needs to be addressed in the
immediate term.
3.    Waste Collection, Storage, and Transport
Sharps collection:
At JNF Hospital, waste is segregated at the point of generation. Sharps waste is
collected in cardboard "UNIVEC Safety Box' containers (Garden City, New York,
USA), shown in Figure 1. The sharps containers were found in the laboratory,
surgical ward, and other areas. The UNIVEC containers are approximately 6.1
liters (6.5 quarts) in volume and fill up approximately every two days. During the
4



site visit, none of the containers were overfilled. Sources expressed difficulty in
obtaining sharps containers. Rigid sharps containers take up much volume
during shipment and consequently have higher shipping costs. In contrast, the
UNIVEC boxes are collapsible and compact when shipped and are unfolded just
before use.
Figure 1. UNIVEC Box
At the Newtown Health Center, sharps waste is also segregated at the point of
generation and collected in UNIVEC boxes. Collectors drive to the clinic twice a
week and transport the sharps boxes when full to JNF Hospital for incineration.
Syringes are loaded vertically into the UNIVEC box The staff commented on the
problems getting needles to go down into the box, as needle points tend to stick
to the sides and sometimes puncture the walls of the cardboard box. At least one
needle-stick injury was related to the consultant: a needle sticking out of a
UNIVEC box had punctured a nurse on the thigh as she was transporting the box
back to the clinic after conducting vaccinations at a school.
At the Newtown Dental Clinic, sharps waste is collected in Sage horizontal-
loading, rigid plastic sharps containers (Sage has now sold its sharps container
division to Kendall in Crystal Lake, Illinois, USA). Each container (Figure 2) has
an approximate volume of 7.6 liters (2 gallons). The containers are eventually
sent to JNF Hospital for incineration. The Sage containers are rigid, puncture-
resistant, durable, and meet intemational standards.
Figure 2. Sage Horizontal-Loading Sharps Container Behind Dental Chair
During the site visit, three large containers were lined with white plastic bags and
contained a large accumulation of sharps. Two of the containers were nearly full
and had no lids. Sharps containers should have lids to prevent accidental
spillage. They do not need plastic bags if they are incinerated. However, if the
rigid containers are reused, the plastic bags should not be removed from the
containers (since needles can easily puncture the bags). Instead, the contents
(sharps and bag) should be dumped directly into the incinerator chamber in a
5



4i (ua uf Bioin1e(dtc tl 11 i.ste AkiunqL,lC 1elm ! Practcts("
manner that would prevent needle-stick injury to the worker. The containers
should then be cleaned and disinfected.
The handling, collection, and disposal of contaminated sharps waste pose one of
the greatest occupational hazards facing health care workers worldwide because
of the frequency of needle-stick injuries and the potential transmission of
bloodbome pathogens. For this reason, the generally accepted performance
criteria for sharps containers include: puncture resistance, rigidity, durability, leak
resistance on the sides and bottom, ability to be closed, and functionality under all
normal conditions during their use. Based on the anecdotal information provided
and a visual examination of the UNIVEC boxes, the UNIVEC containers do not
seem to meet basic performance criteria of puncture resistance during normal
usage, whereas the Sage containers used in the Newtown Dental Clinic meet the
criteria.
Collection of other biomedical waste and regular garbage:
At JNF Hospital, surgical and pathological wastes are collected in black bags.
The "Waste Disposal Methods" table in the existing hospital policy does not
specify a color for the containers or bags to be used for pathological waste.
However, the use of black bags is not in compliance with the general policy
statement that requires all potentially infectious waste be placed in red bags.
Blood tubes and vials are collected in empty bleach bottles as shown in Figure 3.
The containers seen by the consultant are rigid and impermeable but do not have
biohazard markings. The use of plastic bleach bottles for collecting blood tubes is
an acceptable practice as long as containers are properly marked with the
international biohazardous label.
Figure 3. Blood Tubes Inside Bleach Bottles Inside the Incinerator
Wet solid placenta waste is collected in covered white pails and the liquid portion
is drained into the sewer. Disposing of fluids from placenta waste into the
sanitary sewer is accepted practice as long as health-care workers are protected
from splashes.  Collecting solid and semi-liquid placenta waste in pails is
acceptable as an initial step but the wet solids should then be collected in red
bags before being transported for treatment and disposal.
Cultures are collected in plastic bags. Except for the lack of color coding and
biohazard marking, this is acceptable as long as the cultures are in closed glass
containers and are not broken. Any glassware that is broken, has sharp edges,
or may easily get broken (e.g., test tubes, slides, cover slips, pipettes, etc.) should
be placed in puncture-resistant sharps containers.



4 Ii/1i of BIOM)e/ cii (t   LI.StC '\ ILlI1Ligt'1110J11 PlJVl(r,Lc',
No chemotherapy waste is generated in any of the facilities.
Regular garbage is collected in garbage containers. Typically, one regular
garbage container is placed near each bed. The numbers of regular garbage
containers and of containers for potentially infectious waste seem appropriate for
the size of the facility. Too many infectious waste containers have been shown to
inflate unnecessarily the volume of waste as health care staff tend to discard
regular garbage into infectious waste bins. However, sharps waste containers
must be readily accessible to the staff.
At Newtown Health Center, other types of waste such as bandages, cofton,
gauze, etc. (except for sharps) are placed in trash containers and picked up and
disposed of along with regular garbage. Blood-stained gauze at the Newtown
Dental Clinic is segregated in separate containers and sent for disposal with
regular garbage to the dumpsite. These are acceptable practices. A recent draft
WHO report on biomedical waste health hazards notes that most blood-borne
pathogens have a limited ability to multiple and remain viable longer than a few
hours to a few days in dried blood ("Review of Health Impacts from
Microbiological Hazards in Health-Care Wastes" (draft), I.F. Salkin; edited by M.E.
Kennedy, World Health Organization, Geneva, 2001). Therefore, concerns with
the handling of blood focus primarily on bulk liquid blood and the danger of blood
splashes.
In-house storage and transport:
Biomedical waste is transported via an open trolley and brought directly to the
incinerator on a regular basis. Fortunately, due to the relatively small amounts of
waste generated daily, there is no need for a storage area for biomedical waste.
The use of a trolley (Figure 4) that is open on the top and sides is generally not
acceptable for transport of biomedical waste. A fully enclosed cart, with a lid to
prevent spillage and avoid offensive sights and smells, is recommended for
transporting biomedical waste. Until a fully enclosed cart is obtained, steps
should be taken to minimize the possibility of spillage and the trolley should be
regularly cleaned and disinfected.
Figure 4. Open Trolley for Transporting Waste
Regular garbage from the trash containers is dumped into a plastic bag twice a
day and transported by trolley to a storage enclosure near the incinerator. It is
recommended that a separate trolley be used for regular garbage.
7



b,ila ul /Jn1ne3I( m led   [ 'l 'fuIuc A ,'flc1iC'meI  PracLtrlc.
Off-site transport:
The Environmental Health Department schedules the removal of regular garbage
from the hospital. A transport vehicle provides daily collection of garbage.
Incinerator ash, treated sharps, and other waste are also collected and
transported to the dumpsite. It is recommended that treated biomedical waste be
kept separate from regular garbage so that the latter can be disposed of in a
restricted area where waste recyclers or pickers are not allowed.
. Waste Treatment
Sharps waste, surgical and pathological waste, placenta waste, and cultures are
sent to the incinerator for burning. At JNF Hospital, waste is treated in an old
single-chamber oven-style incinerator (Figure 5) built around 1968 at the back of
the hospital. The incinerator's stack was destroyed during Hurricane Georges in
1998. (A new chimney has been purchased.) The purpose of the chimney or
stack is to disperse the pollutants higher up in the atmosphere thereby reducing
pollutant concentrations at ground level. Unfortunately, the residences behind
JNF Hospital where the incinerator is located are at a higher elevation and hence,
the advantageous dispersion and dilution effects provided by a chimney are
lessened.
The incinerator is used approximately 4 days a week. Orderlies place the waste
inside the chamber and light up the incinerator. Buming is initiated by adding logs
to the waste, pouring kerosene on the waste pile, and using matches to ignite the
pile. The orderlies are instructed to check periodically while the waste is burning.
However, if cultures or tissue waste is burned, orderlies are told to monitor the
burning. The incinerator is adjacent to the storage area for regular garbage. The
ash and other residues from the incinerator are collected in a garbage bin and
sent to the landfill approximately once a week.
Figure 5. JNF Incinerator During Burning
During the site visit, it was observed that emissions from the incinerator were
generally blown in the direction of nearby residences and commercial facilities
behind JNF Hospital. A single-chamber incinerator that is carefully maintained
and operated properly should produce ashes containing less than 3 percent
unburned matter. Debris was scattered in the area around the incinerator and
burned or partially burned sharps waste could be found on the ground near the
8



-*lRi/U of BIo ehc( ol iWc\tC  UWLQ1mgc1171 Pl-,Ien lce'
incinerator (Figure 6). This creates an unsafe environment for orderlies and other
workers dealing with biomedical waste and regular garbage that is stored
adjacent to the incinerator.
Figure 6. Partially Bumed Residues
At one time, JNF Hospital had an autoclave but it malfunctioned. The hospital
determined that the autoclave was irreparable and it was subsequently
abandoned.
Newtown Health Center has a small, unused single-chamber incinerator. Use of
the incinerator was halted sometime in the mid-1990's due to the danger of fire or
explosion as the incinerator is in close proximity to a Shell gas plant located
adjacent to the clinic. The incinerator was used for less than a week. The safety
concerns related to the gas plant are valid ones and the incinerator should not be
used.
Reportedly, Pogson Hospital and Mary Charles Hospital each have a small brick
oven-type incinerator which one source described as "unapproved" designs.
The current incinerator at JNF Hospital, even with a chimney, does not meet the
basic criteria for good combustion and is a source of toxic air pollutants. The
appearance of the residues indicates very poor combustion which, unfortunately,
is inherent in these types of single-chamber designs. Research has shown that
destruction of test spores take place when the waste is exposed to a minimum of
1,400 IF (760 IC) in a primary chamber and 1,600 IF (870 OC) in a secondary
chamber with a 1.2 second residence time. Some regulatory authorities require a
minimum temperature of 1,800 OF (980 IC) in the secondary chamber and a
minimum 2-second residence time as a safety factor to assume total destruction
of all pathogens. The single-chamber incinerator at St. Kitts does not meet this
basic requirement. Steps should be taken to phase out the incinerator and
replace it with a new treatment technology.
5.    Waste Disposal
The liquid portion of placenta waste is flushed down the sanitary sewer. As noted
earlier, this is an acceptable method of disposal.
9



The Multi-Purpose Lab is consulted on how to dispose of expired or condemned
pharmaceuticals; in general, they are bumed. The buming of pharmaceuticals
results in the release of toxic air pollutants, as described above, and
consequently, in potential adverse impact to public health and the environment.
Spent solvents, such as xylenes and formaldehyde, are stored and disposed in
the drain. This is not an acceptable disposal method since these toxic organic
solvents could pollute the environment and possibly contaminate water sources.
Waste from radiology (developers and fixatives) are neutralized and disposed in
the sewer; there is no silver recovery system. This method of disposal into a
public sewer system is commonly done and is acceptable as long as it is in
keeping with any discharge permits or wastewater regulations. Since spent fixer
solutions contain small amounts of silver (up to 1,400 parts per million), a silver
recovery system may be considered if large amounts of wastewater are
processed through radiology.
The bumt sharps, ash, and other waste residues from the incinerator are brought
to the Conaree site, a solid waste disposal area or dumpsite that is over 40 years
old. There the waste is dumped along with regular garbage. Individuals can walk
in but vehicles are checked at the gate. Dumping is supervised. Regular
garbage is leveled and compacted by a bulldozer and an earth cover is added at
the end of the day. Unusual waste that the hospital wishes to dispose of in a
special manner (as well as occasional abattoir waste from the slaughterhouse) is
buried in trenches in specially designated areas on the northwest side of the
dumpsite.  Recyclers or pickers actively scavenge and collect salvageable
material from the landfill.
Incinerator residues contain sharps and partially burned blood vials that pose
needle-stick and bloodborne pathogen hazards to pickers. Those types of waste
should be kept separate from regular garbage and pickers should not be allowed
access to treated biomedical waste. Around 2002, the Conaree area will be the
site of an engineered landfill to be constructed around the area where the current
main entrance to the existing dumpsite is located. The development of an
engineered landfill with restricted and marked areas for biomedical waste is
recommended.
6.    Employee Training
At JNF Hospital, in-service training related to infection control was last conducted
about two years ago. A teaching manual had been completed, including lesson
plans and handouts. The instructions covered disinfection among other topics At
present, little instruction on biomedical waste management is provided through
informal, on-the-job training. In the future, some in-service training is planned to
include waste handling.
A nosocomial or infection control committee exists but has been dormant. It used
to meet periodically. Unfortunately, staff attrition, in some cases due to study
leave, resulted in the committee becoming inactive. One source noted that the
committee could easily be revived since the organizational structure remains in
place.
10



-1 o(B/I 0/B IflUL-Y I/CL/I It 1/4t' 1'JVC.IfLh1,0'11e07/1 PI-VL tL'c'C
Despite the inexistence of govemment regulations, lack of implementation of
hospital policies, and no formal employee training on waste management, many
health care personnel demonstrated some understanding of the need to
segregate at the point of generation and the importance of sharps waste
management. Nevertheless, biomedical waste management should be a part of
employee in-service training and an infection control committee, which plays an
important role in biomedical waste management, should be fully reactivated. This
will be discussed further in the Recommendations.
Nevis: Biomedical Waste Management Practices
1.    Policies and Procedures
There are no written policies or guidelines for biomedical waste management at
Alexandra Hospital.
2.    Color Coding and Signage
The following color coding had reportedly been used in the past: red bags for
infectious waste, black for regular garbage. However, color coding is currently
not used. As noted above, color coding and signage are important aspects of
waste segregation for effective waste management, protection of public health,
and occupational safety. They are generally accepted standards for handling
health care waste. The lack of color coding and signage will be addressed in the
Recommendations.
3.    Waste Collection, Storage, and Transport
At Alexandra Hospital, waste is segregated at the point of generation. Sharps
waste is collected in two types of sharps containers: a small (tabletop) yellow
plastic container (Vacutainer, volume of about 0.95 liters or 1 quart) and a larger
red, horizontal-loading, rigid plastic container (Kendall, volume of about 7.6 liters
or 2 gallons). These are shown in Figure 7. The use of rigid, puncture-resistant,
and leak-proof containers for sharps is in keeping with generally recognized
standards.
Figure 7. Small Vacutainer (background) and
Large Kendall (foreground) Sharps Containers



.4'lI / ()I Biomleducii il WO'Wtc' AIUnc/Ict  Iel i PI'(il L (cs
Sharps containers were observed by the consultant in the medical/surgical ward,
matemity, and laboratory. During the site visit, none of the sharps containers
found was overfilled. The number of sharps containers relative to the number of
regular garbage containers seems to be appropriate for this size of facility. As
noted above, too many infectious waste containers tend to inflate unnecessarily
the volume of waste but there must be sufficient sharps waste containers to be
readily accessible to the staff. Details of infectious waste classification and
segregation are discussed in the Recommendations.
Blood collection tubes are collected in "Burn-up Bin" corrugated cardboard
containers with translucent plastic liners (Figure 8). The cardboard bins have the
biohazard marking on the outside. Pathological waste, placenta, and surgical
waste are collected in plastic bags; the consultant observed dark green plastic
bags inside red plastic containers for this purpose. Cultures and chemotherapy
waste are not generated at the hospital. Regular garbage is collected in black
bags inside garbage bins.
'CS'
Figure 8. Burn-up Bin
At Prospect Senior Citizen Home (long-term care facility), the staff noted that
insulin needles were a concem in the past but not currently. At that time, the
needles were wrapped in paper and discarded in the trash. For generators of
very small amounts of sharps waste, such as households of insulin-dependent
individuals or small long-term care facilities, it is recommended that the syringes
be placed in a puncture-resistant container such as a hard plastic or metal can
with a tightly secured lid and disposed with regular garbage.
Sources reported that sharps waste is collected from clinics, transported by the
Sanitation or Public Health Department, and disposed in trenches. Other sources
indicated that animal carcasses from the two veterinary clinics (private and public
facilities) are also buried in trenches.
Waste Treatment
At Alexandra Hospital, biomedical waste is burned in what had once been a
single-chamber incinerator, shown in Figure 9. The incinerator was severely
damaged by Hurricane Georges in 1998 so much so that less than half of the
chamber remains standing. The incinerator essentially operates as an open-bum
site. Waste is bumed once or twice a week or as needed. The Public Health
Department picks up regular garbage and waste from the incinerator six days a
week. Approximately three drums of waste are collected a day.
12



,I fI(i  of ))mLdlh (I f Il zc 'we 4L1a1n1qT?1Ciell PIVCrL C',
Figure 9. Nevis "Incinerator"
The "incinerator" at Alexandra Hospital cannot properly be classified as an
incinerator. At the very least, an incinerator must have an enclosed combustion
chamber. With this "incinerator," it is likely that not only toxic air pollutants but
also pathogens are discharged to the air and left in the residues Furthermore, a
possible scenario is that when Burn-Up Bins are burned, the integrity of boxes is
destroyed by fire and blood collection tubes spill out to the ground with little or no
exposure to high heat. The unburned or partially burned tubes break as they fall
or are stepped on, thereby posing a serious risk of injury and spread of
bloodborne pathogens. As mentioned earlier, many regulatory authorities have
required a minimum temperature of 1,800 IF and a minimum 2-second residence
time to assume total destruction of all pathogens. The single-chamber incinerator
at Nevis falls far short of meeting this basic requirement. The 'incinerator" is a
hazard and its use should be discontinued as soon as possible.
A new biomedical waste incinerator has reportedly been purchased and will be
installed. However, no details about the incinerator could be obtained during and
after the consultant's site visit.
5.    Waste Disposal
Ash and other residues from the incinerator are placed in boxes and taken by the
Public Health Department to the disposal site. The Low Ground dumpsite is in
the area of Long Point. It has about five monitoring wells in place for the testing
of leachate in the future. Construction of a sanitary landfill is expected to be
completed in 2002.
During the site visit, the consultant examined a trench (about 4 feet deep)
intended for sharps waste. At that time, it contained abattoir waste (Figure 10).
Adjacent to it was a smaller trench containing asbestos materials. The idea of a
separate area for disposal of biomedical waste is a good plan. However, that
area of the dumpsite must be separated by a fence or other barrier, marked with
a warning sign to keep pickers out, and land disposal supervisors should be
instructed to restrict access to the area.
Note: Asbestos material, especially friable asbestos, is extremely hazardous.
Microscopic asbestos fibers can be suspended in air and carried downwind.
When inhaled, asbestos is known to cause lung cancer, mesothelioma, and
asbestosis. The trench containing asbestos should be covered and marked
permanently to prevent anyone in the future digging up or accidentally disturbing
13



411(/cI 0i  Biom 1ed,c c  I Lt/ c' .efl It Ll lcLste(M?I?el Pln (tL es
the soil resulting in dangerous releases of asbestos. Anyone working on
asbestos materials should wear personnel protection equipment including
respirators designed for asbestos particles.
?
Figure 10. Trench for Sharps and Abattoir Waste
Expired pharmaceuticals in liquid form are discarded down the drain if the
pharmacist deems them non-toxic. This is an acceptable procedure for small
amounts of non-toxic waste. Injectables are snapped off, placed in boxes, and
incinerated. Solid waste, such as expired tablets, is sent to the dumpsite.
Disposal of condemned drugs is addressed in the Recommendations.
6.    Employee Training
There is no infection control committee and no employee training on biomedical
waste management.   Employee training is essential.  An infection control
committee plays an important role in the management of biomedical waste. This
is addressed further in the Recommendations.
0
Notes on Recommendations
Short-term recommendations are provided for immediate implementation to
address imminent hazards and to protect health and the environment, and
enhance worker safety. They may include some temporary measures as part of
a transition to the full implementation of best practices and a national biomedical
waste management system.
Short-Term Recommendations:
SHORT-TERM RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ST. KITTS:
0 All containers intended for potentially infectious waste should be marked with
the intemational bio-hazard symbol in order to clearly distinguish between
infectious and non-infectious waste.
14



'luI t 10  {RtIol,v / "a i d ( ' l'hZJh  lI(.v   1"'I, rt( "C.(
*  The UNIVEC Safety Boxes should be replaced as soon as possible with
puncture-resistant sharps containers. In the meantime, extreme care should
be taken when placing sharps into UNIVEC boxes and when manually
transporting boxes containing sharps waste. As soon as possible, specially
designed sharps transport containers should be used by the health centers
when transporting sharps waste from field immunizations.
* All sharps containers should have lids to prevent accidental spillage. If rigid
sharps containers are reused, the contents should be dumped directly into the
incinerator chamber in a manner that would prevent needle-stick injury to the
worker. The containers should then be cleaned and disinfected.
*  Any trolleys used to transport biomedical waste should not be used to
transport regular garbage or other material. Orderlies should be instructed to
minimize the risk of spillage. The trolley for biomedical waste should be
cleaned regularly with soap and water, and disinfected with a bleach (sodium
hypochlorite) solution. The open trolley should be replaced with a fully
enclosed cart.
*  Steps should be taken to phase out the JNF Hospital incinerator as soon as
possible. However, as long as the incinerator remains in use, the area
around the incinerator should be kept clean. The chimney should be
installed. The hospital should consult with a local meteorologist to determine
the general time when the greatest air turbulence and dispersion happens
during the day. Burning during this time period will help disperse toxic air
pollutants and minimize local pollutant concentrations.  Only potentially
infectious waste should be incinerated. Sources of toxic metals (such as
lead, mercury, cadmium, etc.) and chlorine (such as chlorinated plastics)
should not be burned in the incinerator.
It is essential to remove ashes, soot, slag, and bumed residues regularly in
order to allow good air flow for combustion. The residues from the chamber
and from the opening beneath the chamber should be collected directly into
ash collection bins and not be allowed to scatter on the ground where they
could pose a hazard. Orderlies should continue to monitor the incinerator to
ensure as complete burning as possible.
*  Land disposal supervisors should ensure that recyclers or pickers are kept
away from areas where treated waste from the incinerator is dumped. That
section should have a physical barrier such as a fence and signs clearly
marking the area as a restricted site.
* The nosocomial or infection control committee at JNF Hospital should be
reactivated. In addition to its other usual tasks, the committee should initially
be responsible for the management of biomedical waste at the hospital. That
responsibility can later be transitioned over to a Waste Management Team as
explained further in the Long-Term Recommendations.
15



SHORT-TERM RECOMMENDATIONS FOR NEVIS:
o  All containers intended for infectious waste should be marked with the
international biohazard symbol in order to clearly distinguish between
infectious and non-infectious waste.
o  Use of the Alexandra Hospital incinerator should be halted immediately and a
new treatment technology installed as soon as possible. Debris around the
area of the burn site should be cleaned and sharps, blood collection tubes,
and other residues should be collected in rigid containers and buried in deep
trenches at the Low Ground dumpsite.
o  Until such time as a new treatment technology is available, sharps and other
potentially infectious waste should continue to be segregated and transported
regularly to the dumpsite where they should be buried in deep trenches and
covered with earth. The area should be fenced in and marked with warning
signs. They should remain segregated during transport and access to the
trench areas should be restricted especially from recyclers or pickers. While
this is not a preferred method of disposal, the consultant believes this method
poses less of a hazard than using the broken incinerator.
o  The waste should be transported to a central collection point using a fully
enclosed cart with a lid to prevent spillage and avoid offensive sights and
smells. Orderlies should be instructed to minimize the risk of spillage. The
cart should be used only to transport biomedical waste and should be
cleaned regularly with soap and water, and disinfected with a bleach (sodium
hypochlorite) solution.
o  An infection control committee should be formed at Alexandra Hospital. In
addition to its usual role of developing and implementing policies, procedures,
and programs to minimize the risk of spreading infection in the hospital, the
infection control committee should initially be responsible for the management
of biomedical waste. As explained in the Long-Term Recommendations,
biomedical waste management should eventually be the responsibility of a
Waste Management Team.
Long-Term Recommendations for St. Kitts and Nevis
1.    National Laws and Regulations
Future legislation or regulations on biomedical waste management should
consider the following elements:
o Clear definitions of what constitutes biomedical waste and its categories
o Cradle-to-grave approach to biomedical waste management
o Coordination with hazardous (non-biomedical) waste management laws as
well as other laws dealing with health (including prevention of infectious
16



I u Ir of Bionic' lIc I (I( {, it  h r 1 . A YJ / l 2 .II_YMc II: j;  , Xu tI, 'S
diseases, hospital hygiene and infection control), sanitation, environment (air
quality, water quality, land disposal), and occupational safety and health
*  Delineation of responsible national and local govemment authorities for
implementation (usually the Ministry of Health has primary responsibility with
the Ministry of Environment involved in specific ways)
* Legal obligations of the biomedical waste generator
* Provisions related to record-keeping and reporting
* Provisions related to any fees for transport, treatment, and final disposal
* Provisions related to inspections for the purpose of enforcement, penalties for
non-compliance, and legal procedures for handling disputes related to
enforcement.
2.    Institutional Policy, Administration, and Organization
Every hospital or health care facility should have a written policy on biomedical
waste management. The policy should state the facility's objective of providing a
system for management of biomedical waste in order to protect patients, staff,
and the general public from hazards associated with biomedical waste. It should
provide an overview of responsibilities and outline major procedures for
biomedical waste management. A sample plan is provided in Appendix A3.
Proper management of biomedical waste depends on good administration and
organization. The waste management structure depends on the size and
complexity of the facility. For JNF and Alexandra Hospitals, it is recommended
that hospital waste management teams be established at both hospitals. Each
team should be headed by the hospital administrator who is also the designated
contact with the regulatory authority.
The administrator should appoint one member of the team as the Waste
Management Officer responsible for the day-to-day operation and monitoring of
the waste management system. Because the Waste Management Officer must
have access to all members of the hospital staff, it is important that the team
include all department heads. Waste management will entail costs so the
hospital's financial officer or accountant should also be part of the team.
Therefore, the Waste Management Team should be comprised of:
* Hospital Administrator (Chair of the Team)
* Department Heads
* Matron or Senior Nursing Officer
* Infection Control Officer and/or Hospital Hygienist
* Hospital Engineer or Maintenance Supervisor
* Financial Officer or Accountant
* Other staff (with relevant training or responsibilities) as needed
The responsibilities of the Waste Management Team are:
1. To develop a written waste management policy, specific guidelines, and plan
for implementation
17



41tu!ht o! Rion,-'C ' [dic   (t!l  ' AY,1ana(c,120   Pia( ru( '-
2. To review and revise (as needed) the policy, guidelines, and implementation
plan on a periodic basis
3. To ensure adequate financial and human resources for efficient operation and
monitoring of the plan.
As mentioned, one of the above team members should be appointed the Waste
Management Officer (this could also be the Infection Control Officer, Hospital
Engineer, or Matron). The Waste Management Officer reports directly to the
hospital administrator and should have direct access to all staff members. The
responsibilities of the Waste Management Officer are:
1. To facilitate communications among members of the Waste Management
Team to ensure that proper procedures are implemented, including timely
intemal collection, emergency procedures, and reporting
2. To monitor and evaluate waste handling and disposal operations with the
help of the Infection Control Officer; this may entail a comprehensive risk
assessment of all activities with the help of other members of the team
3. To ensure that adequate supplies are available
4. To maintain records of the amounts and types of waste generated, accidents,
unusual operational events, and non-compliance
5. To ensure that all staff members are aware of their responsibilities regarding
biomedical waste and to work with the Infection Control Officer and other staff
on the training programs
6. To identify items that need modification in the policy, guidelines, or plan.
Other team members have responsibilities regarding biomedical waste:
o  The Department Heads and Matron should ensure that staff within their
departments are familiar with the policy, guidelines, and plan, and have
received training; they should also make sure any incidents are reported
to the Waste Management Officer.
o  The Infection Control Officer should act as a technical consultant to the
Waste Management Officer, participate in evaluating waste handling and
disposal operations, and work with the Waste Management Officer and
others in ensuring that the training program is implemented
o  The Hospital Engineer or Maintenance Supervisor should ensure that the
maintenance or engineering staff receives training and should consult
with the Waste Management Officer on matters dealing with the treatment
technology.
o  The Financial Officer should consult with the Waste Management Officer
on matters dealing with supplies and budgetary needs, and should
investigate options to minimize waste or reduce toxicity through product
*     substitutions (e.g., using non-toxic substitutes for toxic solvents, replacing
halogenated plastic disposables with non-halogenated equivalents,
finding vendors willing to take back expired pharmaceuticals, etc.).
18



'1!I tu |l B(4 1(nn'"IIcdI Z   :(L  .1,'Iaaz7 -''uc m ; [it':   CQs
3.    Occupational Safety and Health
Personal protective equipment should be made available to all personnel who
handle, transport, and treat biomedical waste. Orderlies and other staff who pick
up and transport biomedical waste should be provided with heavy-duty gloves,
boots or shoes with thick soles, and coveralls. Gloves are essential to prevent
lacerations, burns from hot surfaces (such as with a treatment technology), or
contact with any chemical or biological material. Boots or shoes with thick soles
and good traction should also be provided to protect from spilled sharps,
chemicals, and slippery surfaces. Plastic coveralls provide protection from blood
splatter and splashes from body fluids or chemicals. Leg protectors may be used
in situations where the legs of waste workers may be in contact with waste bags.
Health-care workers that deal in situations where they may be splashed with
blood, body fluids, solvents, corrosive chemicals, or other hazardous liquids
should be provided with eye and face protection. They should be used by staff
members when discarding free-flowing blood and body fluids in the sanitary
sewer.
Immunization from viral hepatitis and tetanus is recommended for all waste
handlers. Basic personal hygiene is also important and should be emphasized
during training. Convenient washing facilities with warm water and soap should
be available.
4.    Waste Segregation and Classification
Segregation, or the separation of specific types of waste from other types of
waste, is key to effective management of medical waste. It is the responsibility of
the waste generator. Potentially infectious waste should be segregated from
regular garbage as close as possible to the point where the waste is generated.
Segregation should be maintained during storage and transport up to the point of
treatment. To be effective, the same system of segregation should apply
throughout the country.
There are many ways of classifying the different components of biomedical
waste. In light of the types of waste produced in St. Kitts and Nevis, a simple
classification is recommended in Table 1 focusing on the biomedical waste
categories that pose the greatest hazards, as explained below.
Sharps pose a potential disease transmission hazards because of their ability to
create a portal of entry through the skin. In particular, needle-stick injuries are a
known cause of the spread of infectious diseases and a serious occupational
hazard.
Cultures and stocks may contain high concentrations of disease-causing agents.
Laboratory workers must use extreme caution to avoid inadvertent exposure to
these pathogens and untreated cultures should be rendered noninfectious,
preferably on site, prior to disposal. At present, there is no culture waste in Nevis.
19



o it  IIew(,dwal, ,  'I a 1ua, 1'mcjz   ' i cC
Table 1. Biornedical Waste Categories (CUassification I)
Waste           Description         Examples                     Where Found
Category
Sharps          Items that could cut  Hypodermic needles, syringes,  Nursing Stations,
or puncture         suture needles, scalpel and  Laboratory,
regardless of whether  other blades, lancets, saws,  Emergency Room,
they are infected or  knives, broken or unbroken  Surgery, Matemity
not                 glass, vials, tubes, pipettes, etc.  Ward, Clinics
Cultures and    Cultures and stocks  Human and animal cell cultures,  Laboratory,
Stocks          of infectious agents  stocks of etiologic agents,  Microbiology
and associated      discarded live and attenuated
biologicals         vaccine or serum, culture dishes
and other devices used to
transfer, inoculate or mix cell
cultures
Human Blood,    Free-flowing blood,  Free-flowing blood or blood  Patient Wards,
Blood Products,  components or      components, semen, vaginal   Surgery,
and Body Fluids  products of blood,  secretions, cerebrospinal fluid,  Laboratory,
and specific body   synovial fluid, pleural fluid,  Emergency Room
fluids              pericardial fluid, pertitoneal fluid,
amniotic fluid, saliva in dental
procedures, and body fluids
contaminated with blood
Pathological    Human pathological  Tissues, organs, anatomical  Surgery, Pathology,
Waste           waste               waste (recognizable body parts  Autopsy
except teeth) removed during
surgery, autopsy or other
procedures
Animal Waste    Contaminated animal  Animal carcasses, animal body  Veterinary Hospitals
waste               parts, blood, body fluids, and  and Clinics,
bedding known to have been   Research
exposed to infectious agents  Laboratories
Selected        Waste generated by  Swabs, excreta, soiled       Isolation Ward
Isolation Waste  patients who are   dressings, drainage sets, items
isolated to prevent  saturated or dripping with human
the spread of highly  blood, etc. from patients infected
communicable        with highly communicable
diseases            diseases (see below)
Inadvertent contact with blood through cuts or mucous membranes has been
associated with the transmission of disease by blood-borne pathogens such as
HIV and hepatitis B. The risk comes from contact with blood or body fluids in
liquid form which is capable of splashing in the eyes or other mucous
membranes. Most blood-borne pathogens have a limited ability to multiply or
20



,Audt(l oIfl,owcdw"1al, J4'asc A'Iauagemni P1  a a
remain viable longer than a few hours or a few days in dried blood. For this
reason, the focus of concem is liquid blood.
While pathological waste has not been generally implicated in disease
transmission, it has potentially infective qualities.  Moreover, there may be
aesthetic, cultural, or religious factors that may determine how pathological waste
is treated and disposed. In general, they can be treated in a treatment technology
and buried in a sanitary landfill. Placentas and human fetuses can be interred in
special burial sites.
The main concern relating to animal waste would be animal carcasses that have
been inoculated with infectious agents or any animals exposed to pathogens
such as those that cause transmissible spongiform encephalopathies ("mad cow
disease"). Regular abattoir waste is not included in this category.
In many countries, isolation waste is only limited to wastes generated from
patients infected with certain highly communicable diseases, specifically defined
as Class 4 agents such as Ebola, Crimean hemorrhagic fever, Lassa fever,
Marburg, etc.  The hospital's infection control committee should determine
whether waste from specific isolation rooms should have special handling,
treatment, and disposal.
Table 2. Additional Waste Categories (Classification II)
Waste Category    Description        Examples                     Where Found
Pharmaceutical    Discarded items    Expired, condemned, or       Pharmacy
Waste             containing         contaminated pharmaceutical
pharmaceuticals    products
Chemotherapeutic  Waste containing   Chiorambucil, Daunomycin,    Cancer Therapy
Waste             cytotoxic,         Melphalan, Mitomycin C,
genotoxic, or other  Uracil mustard, Streptozotocin,
hazardous          Cyclophosphamide, etc
antineoplastic drugs
Low-level         Waste containing   Pipettes, vials, syringes,   Nuclear Medicine,
Radioactive       radioactive        needles, gloves, absorbents,  Clinical and
Waste             substances         etc. contaminated with       Research
radionuclides               Laboratories
Other Hazardous   Waste that exhibit  Xylene, methanol, Formalin  Nursing Stations,
Chemical Waste    hazardous          (formaldehyde solution),     Pathology,
characteristics    trichloroethylene, sulfuric acid,  Autopsy, Dialysis,
(corrosive, ignitable,  glutaraldehyde, mercury from  Radiology,
chemically reactive,  broken thermometers, spent  Laboratory,
toxic) in addition to  batteries, cleaning solvents,  Facility
wastes already     degreasers, potassium        Engineering &
classified above   cyanide, asbestos, PCBs, etc.  Maintenance,
Funeral Homes
21



-41U(1I f)fl3medi( a/ 11 teItc A1an,agcmenl PIYIUh,LC'
There are other classifications that either fall under the hazardous waste category
(which in some countries is defined and regulated separately from infectious
waste) and others that may not apply at this time but may describe biomedical
waste streams in the future. The additional classifications are shown in Table 2.
At present, there are no chemotherapeutic and low-level radioactive wastes in St.
Kitts and Nevis.
5.    Waste Minimization
It is recommended that all health-care facilities institute a waste minimization
program. Waste minimization is the reduction, to the extent possible, of waste
that is destined for ultimate disposal. Potential benefits of minimization include:
environmental protection, enhanced occupational safety and health, cost
reductions, reduced liability, and improved community relations.
The following are basic techniques of waste minimization: source reduction
(including material substitution, process changes, and good practices), resource
recovery and recycling, and composting.  Some basic concepts of waste
minimization and recommended resources are provided in Appendix A4.
6.     Labeling, Color Coding, and Signage
Every container for infectious medical waste must have the intemational
biohazard symbol in a contrasting color painted or affixed to the container as
shown in Figure 11. (Note: The dot in the middle is not part of the symbol; it is
used to center the marking if needed.)
L~~.
Figure 11. International Biohazard Symbol
In addition to the symbol, one of the following warning signs should be painted or
marked on the container, whichever is appropriate:
o "Biohazard"
o  "Sharps" or "Biohazard" (for sharps containers)
22



The following color-coding is recommended:
Table 3. Color Coding
TYPE OF WASTE               COLOR OF BAG OR CONTAINER
Potentially Infectious Waste  RED
Sharps                      RED
Washable Contaminated Linen  YELLOW
Chemical, Pharmaceutical, or  BROWN
Chemotherapeutic Waste
Regular garbage            TRANSLUCENT
Signage in the form of posters displayed in public areas is helpful, not just as a
reminder to health care staff, but also to inform patients and the public about the
facility's waste management system. A sample poster is shown in Appendix A5.
7.     Waste Collection
Potentially infectious waste should be segregated in clearly marked containers
that are appropriate for the type of waste, as shown below.
Table 4. Collection Container Specifications
TYPE OF WASTE     SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONTAINER OR BAG
Sharps            - Container should be puncture-resistant, leak-proof on the sides
and bottom, durable, and closable (closure should be secure)
- Container should be labeled and color-coded
- Container should be designed so that it is easily and safety
determined when the container is nearly full
Non-sharps        - Container should be leak-proof, rigid, durable, labeled, and color
infectious waste  coded
(solid/semi-solid)  - Plastic bag should be leak-proof, designed to prevent ripping,
tearing, or bursting under normal use, labeled; and color coded
The plastic bag should be placed inside a rigid container
Non-sharps        - Container should be leak-proof and durable
infectious waste  - Container should be designed such that it can be transported
(liquid)          without spillage
Appropriately sized sharps containers should be placed in locations easily
accessible to personnel and as close as possible to the immediate area where
sharps are used. Examples include phlebotomy area, treatment and examination
rooms, nursing stations, operating rooms, emergency rooms, etc. To prevent
injuries, needles should not be recapped nor removed from disposable syringes.
Sharps containers should not be overfilled.
A ngid, puncture-resistant plastic sharps container specifically designed for
needles and syringes is recommended. A reusable container is acceptable as
long as the container and its contents can be disinfected in a treatment
technology and the sharps can be removed safely. A reusable container should
be cleaned on a routine basis. A bleach bottle with the biohazard symbol and
"Caution: Sharps" marking in red is acceptable as a container for blood collection
tubes.
23



-1 ud if 0I i3uu a;('h   I ; 1t   in A 'IC it P-; ,  C.t iICC
The Waste Management Officer should regularly monitor sharps collection
containers to ensure that they are not overfilled, that full containers are promptly
removed, that non-sharps waste are not placed in sharps container, that enough
sharps containers are available and located in appropriate locations, and that new
staff members are educated on sharps disposal practices.  The Waste
Management and Infection Control Officers should document any needle-stick
injuries due to sharps collection, assess why the injury took place, and take steps
to prevent future injuries.
8.    Handling and Transport Within the Facility
Personal protective equipment (PPE) should be worn dunng any operation where
there is a potential for exposure. PPE included gloves, gowns, masks, face
shields, and/or safety goggles or glasses, depending on the operation.
Fully enclosed, wheeled carts should be used when transporting waste through
the facility to a storage area or treatment technology. Carts used for potentially
infectious waste should be used only for that purpose. They should be cleaned
and disinfected on a routine basis.
9.    Transport Outside the Facility
Transport of untreated infectious waste outside any health-care facility should be
regulated by the Ministry of Public Health and/or the Ministry of Environment.
This should involve a cradle-to-grave approach to manage and account for
biomedical waste and entail a medical waste tracking system.
The waste generator (hospital or health-care facility) is always responsible for
ensuring that its medical waste reaches the off-site destination facility, such as a
waste treatment center or sanitary landfill. Health centers and other small
facilities should use special care when transporting sharps waste. Small amounts
of sharps waste may be transported in fully enclosed transport pouches
specifically designed for such purposes.
Infectious waste should be transported in leak-proof, fully enclosed containers or
vehicle compartments that are secured when unattended and designed to
prevent spillage or leakage during transport. If the vehicle is used for other waste,
the infectious waste containers or vehicle compartments should be separated by
barriers from the other types of waste. The waste should be labeled with the
biohazard symbol.
The vehicle should have identification markings or placards on the sides and
back. In keeping with intemational standards, the placard should be diamond-
shaped with black inscription on a white background. The upper half of the
diamond-shaped placard should have the intemational biohazard symbol, the
lower half should have the words "INFECTIOUS WASTE" and "IN CASE OF
ACCIDENT IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY PUBLIC HEALTH AUTHORITY' and at the
very bottom, the number "6" which is the intemational hazard identification
number for toxic or infectious hazards.
24



411(11! of B:on",;c'dca,l PI ot. 11' Al , ;,c   ij,i1', (U:?,,.
The transporter or hauler should have contingency plans in the event of spills or
accidents during transport.
10.   Waste Treatment
The JNF Hospital incinerator should be replaced with a more effective and
cleaner treatment technology with minimal impact on public health and the
environment. Likewise, the Alexandra Hospital incinerator should be replaced at
the soonest possible with an effective and cleaner treatment technology with
minimal impact on public health and the environment. Recommendations on a
waste treatment technology for St. Kitts are presented in a separate report
entitled "Review and Recommendation on a Medical Waste Treatment
Technology."
The waste categories listed under Classification II (expired pharmaceuticals,
chemotherapy waste, low-level radioactive waste, and other hazardous chemical
wastes) are those that require special handling as hazardous waste. Some of
those waste streams are currently not found at St. Kitts and Nevis but they may
be generated in the future. This section provides recommendations for those
waste streams.
Four procedures are recommended for pharmaceutical waste: (1) Return of
expired pharmaceuticals to supplier, (2) Inertization, (3) Encapsulation, and (4)
Sewer discharge.  Many healthcare facilities around the world now have
arrangements with pharmaceutical companies to send back expired or
condemned drugs. This is the preferred method of handling this waste stream.
Another altemative is inertization: Solid pharmaceutical waste is removed from
packaging or containers, ground up and then mixed with cement, lime, and
water. The following ratio is recommended: 65% pharmaceutical waste, 15%
lime, 15% cement, and 5% water. The homogeneous mixture is allowed to
harden into cubes or pellets. The hardened mass should then be disposed in a
hazardous waste landfill engineered to prevent groundwater contamination. In
the absence of a hazardous waste landfill, the hardened mass may be disposed
in a restricted portion of the sanitary landfill or buried in specially designed
trenches or burial pits within the health-care facility premises. In the latter case,
the trenches or pits must be lined with clay or a membrane liner to prevent
leaching into groundwater, secured with a fence to restrict access, and eventually
capped to prevent percolation of water. A waste minimization program should be
in place so that only small amounts of pharmaceutical waste are disposed of in
this manner.
A third altemative is encapsulation: Solid, semi-liquid, or liquid pharmaceutical
waste could be placed in drums which are filled to 3/4ths their capacity. The
drums are then filled with cement mortar or clay, sealed, then buried in a
hazardous waste landfill engineered to prevent groundwater contamination.
Again, in the absence of a hazardous waste landfill, the sealed drums may be
buried in a restricted area of the sanitary landfill. As with inertization, a waste
minimization program should be in place so that only small amounts of
pharmaceutical waste are disposed of in this manner.
25



A fourth alternative applies only to moderate quantities of relatively mild liquid or
semi-liquid pharmaceuticals such as vitamin solutions, cough syrups, eye drops,
saline solutions, intravenous fluids, etc. It is acceptable to discharge these liquid
drugs into a sanitary sewer while diluting with large amounts of water. Antibiotics
and chemotherapy drugs should not be discharged into the sanitary sewer.
Chemotherapeutic wastes are either bulk agents or materials, such as vials or
gloves, contaminated with trace amounts of chemotherapy agents, also called
antineoplastic agents or cytotoxic drugs. Examples of these cancer therapy
drugs are Chlorambucil, Cytoxin, Daunomycin, Mitomycin C, Streptozotocin,
Melphalan, and Uracil Mustard. They require special handling procedures
because of their toxic characteristics.  Many regulatory agencies allow the
disposal in a sanitary landfill of trace-contaminated waste.  However, it is
recommended that trace-contaminated waste be encapsulated (placed in drums
filled to 3/4ths their capacity, then filled with cement mortar or clay, and sealed)
and buried in hazardous waste landfills or restricted sections of a sanitary landfill
engineered to prevent groundwater contamination.
There are two recommended procedures for bulk chemotherapy waste: (1)
Return to supplier and (2) Chemical degradation.  Bulk quantities of
chemotherapy agents should be repackaged, marked 'outdated" or "not for use",
and returned to the supplier.  Chemical degradation methods exist for
chemotherapy agents. These methods are relatively safe and simple. They
involve oxidation by potassium permanganate or sulfuric acid, denitrosation by
hydrobromic acid, reduction by nickel and aluminum, or hydrolysis using heated
alkali. The Unit of Gene-Environment Interactions of the Intemational Agency for
Research on Cancer (IARC, 150 Cours Albert-Thomas, 69372 Lyon Cedex 08,
France) is a source of information for chemical degradation methods. Chemical
degradation can also be used to clean up spills or contaminated urinals.
Although incineration is a treatment method used for chemotherapeutic waste, it
should be noted that the destruction of chemotherapy drugs can only be
accomplished in specialized dual-chamber incinerators operating at very high
temperatures, typically above 2,200 OF (1,200 OC) with a minimum residence time
of 5 seconds.
Three disposal methods are recommended for low-level radioactive waste: (1)
Decay in storage or "storage for decay", (2) Return to supplier, or (3) Long-term
storage at an authorized radioactive waste disposal site. Radionuclides with short
half-lives are generally stored for a period (typically ten times the half-life of the
longest lived radionuclide in a container) to allow decay to background levels as
confirmed by a radiation survey, then disposed as regular waste. Decayed but
infectious waste should be disinfected before disposal.  Facilities should
segregate radioactive waste according to the length of time needed for storage:
short-term storage (half-lives less than 30 days) and long-term storage (half-lives
from 30 to 65 days). Storage facilities must be secure and designed to limit
human exposure. A radioactive waste management plan should include a
program of waste minimization. Source reduction may be achieved by limiting
the quantity of radioactivity purchased, using non-radioactive materials or shorter-
lived radionuclides where possible, and designing laboratory procedures to
reduce the volume of mixed waste.
26



l /   lu " )l'lto ('l( fl al(Mh' *} I /:l / I, ' PI; a( :i ''(
For large sealed sources or sources containing long-lived radionuclides, the
waste should be retumed to the producer or supplier of the original material. It is
recommended that any health-care facility planning to import a sealed source with
a radioactivity greater than 100 MBq 10 years after receipt should require the
supplier to accept the source back after expiration of its useful lifetime and within
a year after a return request is made. If this is not possible, the waste must be
stored in an approved long-term storage facility in keeping with international
guidelines. Whether the waste is returned or stored in a long-term facility, the
waste should first be conditioned to make it suitable for handling, transportation,
and storage. Conditioning may involve immobilization in concrete, securing the
waste in suitable containers, and/or providing special packaging.
Other hazardous chemical waste includes spent organic solvents, degreasers
and oils used by the engineering staff, mercury from broken thermometers, etc.
Four disposal methods are recommended: (1) Return to supplier, (2) Chemical
degradation, (3) Encapsulation and disposal in a hazardous waste landfill, or (4)
Sewer discharge.  Appropriate provisions may be included in the original
purchase contract of chemicals to allow the return of spent or outdated chemicals
to the original supplier in a country with the expertise and facilities to dispose of
the waste safely and in an environmentally sound manner. Shipment for the
purpose of returning the waste should comply with international agreements
including the Basel Convention. It may be possible to degrade or neutralize some
chemical waste (e.g., acids or bases) at a special treatment facility. If neither of
these altematives is possible, the chemical waste should be encapsulated in
small quantities in drums and buried in an approved hazardous waste landfill
engineered to prevent groundwater contamination.  Large amounts of
disinfectants should not be encapsulated as they are corrosive and sometimes
flammable. Hazardous chemical wastes of different compositions should be
stored separately to avoid unwanted chemical reactions. Some mild chemicals,
such as mild disinfecting or cleaning solutions, may be discharged in the sanitary
sewer while diluting with large amounts of water.
Examples of ways to minimize hazardous chemical waste are provided in
Appendix A6.
Final Disposal
Liquid blood and body fluids should be discharged directly and carefully into a
sanitary sewer using personal protective equipment (gown, goggles, face shield
or mask). Hands should be washed thoroughly after gloves are removed. The
facility should check to make sure any effluents to the sanitary sewer are within
specified regulatory limits, if any, for wastewater discharges.
In general, treated biomedical waste can be sent along with regular garbage for
final disposal to a sanitary landfill constructed with a clay or geomembrane liner
such as high-density polyethylene to prevent groundwater contamination. If, for
some reason, untreated medical waste has to be disposed of in the landfill or if
treated sharps have not been destroyed to the point of eliminating needle-stick
injury hazards, a special trench or cell can be used for this purpose.
Unauthorized entry to the area should be prevented by restricting access,
constructing fences, and posting signs such as "BIOHAZARDOUS WASTE
27



4.1(h/ i!b   P:li ca l C t   'I,t1.1 ,; ,ct,r  t,  i1 c 'S
AREA - UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS KEEP OUT'. However, the preferred
method is treatment followed by final disposal.
12.   Summary of Blomedical Waste Management Proceduires
The tables in the following pages outline in a simplified form the main
recommended procedures for segregating, transporting, treating, and disposing
of biomedical waste. Regular garbage is included for the purpose of comparison.
A separate table is presented for waste categories under Classification 11.
13.   Contingency Planniing
Health-care facilities should develop contingency plans in the event that
biomedical waste is spilled, a worker is injured, or the treatment technology is
down for repairs.
For clearing up spillage of blood, body fluids, chemicals, or other potentially
hazardous substances, personal protection equipment such as gloves and
coveralls are needed. If there is any risk of splashing, eye protectors and masks
should also be wom. The appropriate respirators may be needed if toxic vapors
or dust are involved. Solid residues should be recovered using hand tools such
as shovels. If potentially infectious waste is involved, the floor should be cleaned
and disinfected after most of the waste has been recovered.
All health-care staff should be trained to deal with injuries and exposures. In the
event of an injury, first-aid measures should be applied followed by additional
medical attention as needed. With needle-stick injuries, bleeding of the wound
should be encouraged and the area washed and cleaned thoroughly. Blood or
other tests may be indicated, as well as prophylactic treatment.
Medical monitoring and incident reporting are important parts of contingency
planning. Department heads and other members of the Waste Management
Team should encourage prompt and accurate reporting for the purpose of
ensuring proper medical attention and prophylaxis, and to identify remedial
actions to prevent injuries in the future. Incident reporting should not be seen as
punitive. Medical monitoring programs are specifically designed to evaluate the
extent of workplace exposure or the effects of known exposures to workers'
health.
If the treatment technology is shut down for repair or periodic maintenance,
facilities should have altematives, such as long-term storage areas and/or
arrangements with other facilities to transport and treat their biomedical waste at
other sites.
28



d1uo(11/ lo,; ic' (   (L '°' B'ofhZt'  P" a 1'
Table 5. Recommended Procedures for JNF Hospital, St. Kitts
Facility                                              JNF Hospital
Waste         Sharps     Cultures &   Blood &       Pathological Waste     Isolation   (Contamin    Regular
Type                      Stocks       Body                                 Waste        ated      Garbage
Fluids                                            Linen)
Examples     Needles,     Culture      Free-      Tissues,    Placentas,    Swabs,      Bedding    Garbage
Syringes,    dishes      flovwng    Body Parts    Fetuses      Soiled
Blood                   Blood                               Dressing
Tubes
Color          Red         Red          Red         Red          Red         Red         Yellow     Trans-
Code                                                                                                lucent
Marking      Biohazard   Biohazard   Biohazard   Biohazard    Biohazard    Biohazard   Biohazard     none
Symbol,     Symbol,     Symbol,     Symbol,      Symb.        Symbol,     Symbol,
"Sharps"   'Biohazard  'Biohazard"  'Biohazard"  'Biohazard"  'Biohazard"  "Biohazard"
Packaging    Puncture-  Plasbc Bag   Leak-proof  Plastc Bag   Plashc Bag  Plasbc Bag   Plastc or    Plasbc
Resistant  in a Rigid   Container   in a Rigid  in a Rigid   in a Rigid   Linen Bag    Bag or
Sharps     Container               Container    Container    Container               Container
Container
In-House      Covered     Covered     Covered     Covered      Covered     Covered      Covered    Trolley or
Transport      Cart        Cart         Cart        Cart         Cart        Cart         Cart      cart not
for bio-
medical
waste
Storage      Protected   Protected      N/a       Protected   Protected    Protected      N/a       Regular
Endosure    Enclosure,              Endosure,    Endosure,    Enclosure,               storage
4°Cor39                 4°Cor39     4°Cor39°F     4°Cor39                   area
OF '                I   °OF*          .           OF
Treatment    Automabc    Advanced    Discharge   Advanced      Bunal or    Advanced     Wash in       N/a
Needle     Autoclave     Into      Autodave     Advanced    Autoclave    Hot Water
Destroyer,               Sanitary                Autodave                 (160 OF or
Advanced                  Sewer                                           88 OC) for
Autodave                                                                  20 minutes
Off-Site       Special    Special       N/a        Special     Specal       Special       N/a         N/a
Transport     Vehicle     Vehicle                  Vehicle     Vehicle      Vehilde
(untreated
waste)      _
Off-Site     Sanitabon   Sanitabon      N/a       Sanitabon   Sanitabon    Sanitabon      N/a      Sanitabon
Transport      Truck       Truck                   Truck        Truck        Truck                  Truck
(treated
waste)
Disposal      Sanitary    Sanitary    Sanitary    Sanitary   Interment in   Sanitary      N/a      Recyding
Landfill    Landfill    Sewer       Landfill   Bunal Site or  Landfill                  or
Sanitary                             Sanitary
Landfill                             Landill
N/a=not applicable, 'Recommended practce if storage bme is long enough to result in putnd smells from decaying organic waste
(e g , more than 48 hours)
29



4I Lh/  Rio; 'C(i1   (. w  I \ 1 .1/ i c-'fl;c i1; I -)i ul( 1l(''
Table 6. Recommended Procedures for Pogson HospftW, Mary Charles Hospital, and
Health Centers, St. Kitts
Facility                           Pogson Hospital, Mary Charles Hospital, and Health Centers
Waste                Sharps           Blood & Body Fluids      Placenta or Fetuses       Regular Garbage
Type
Examples     Needles, Syringes, Blood   Free-flowing Blood                                   Garbage
Tubes
Color Code            Red                     Red                     Red                  Translucent
Marking         Biohazard Symbol,       Biohazard Symbol,      Biohazard Symbol,              none
'Sharps                'Biohazard"            'Biohazard"
Packaging    Puncture-Resistant Sharps  Leak-proof Container  Plastc Bag in a Rigid   Plastc Bag or Container
Container                                      Container
In-House          Covered Cart            Covered Cart            Covered Cart          Trolley or cart not for
Transport                                                                                biomedical waste
Storage         Protected Enclosure           N/a            Protected Enclosure, 4 OC  Regular Storage Area
or 39 OF *
Treatment        Automabc Needle      Discharge Into Sanitary   Bunal or Advanced              N/a
Destroyer, Advanced           Sewer                 Autoclave
Autodave
Off-Site         Speaal Vehide or             N/a                Speaal Vehide            Sanitabon Truck
Transport        Transport Pouch
(untreated
waste)
Disposal         Sanitary Landfill       Sanitary Sewer     Interment in Bunal Site or  Recycling or Sanitary
Sanitary Landfill            Landfill
N/a=not applicable, *Recommended practce if storage bme is long enough to result in putnd smells from decaying organic waste
(e g , more than 48 hours)
30



'lad/aI o)/ i:fl:U,/if fl 1   A /d7zdQI'ilt ll /-i,.< "It I'
Table 7. Recommended Procedures for Alexandra Hospital, Nevis
Facility                                             Alexandra Hospital
Waste           Sharps         Blood &          Pathological Waste       Isolation    (Contamina     Regular
Type                         Body Fluids                                   Waste      ted Linen)    Garbage
Examples       Needles,      Free-flowing  Tissues, Body   Placentas,     Swabs,       Bedding      Garbage
Synnges,         Blood         Parts         Fetuses        Soiled
Blood Tubes                                                 Dressing
Color            Red            Red            Red            Red           Red         Yellow       Trans-
Code                                                                                                 lucent
Marking        Biohazard      Biohazard      Biohazard     Biohazard     Biohazard     Biohazard      none
Symbol,        Symbol,        Symbol,       Symbol,       Symbol,       Symbol,
'Sharps'      'Biohazard"   "Biohazard"    'Biohazard'   'Biohazard"  'Biohazard"
Packaging      Puncture-      Leak-proof   Plasbc Bag in   Leak-proof    Plastc Bag    Plashc or   Plasbc Bag
Resistant      Container       a Rigid      Container     in a Rigid    Linen Bag       or
Sharps                       Container                   Container                  Container
Container
In-House     Covered Cart   Covered Cart   Covered Cart   Covered Cart    Covered      Covered      Trolley or
Transport                                                                   Cart         Cart       cart not for
biomedical
waste
Storage        Protected         N/a         Protected     Protected     Protected       N/a         Regular
Endosure                     Endosure, 4   Endosure, 4   Enclosure, 4                 storage
°C or 39 OF *  OC or 39 OF  OC or 39 OF *                  area
Treatment      Automabc       Discharge      Treatment      Bunal or     Treatment    Wash in Hot      N/a
Needle      Into Sanitary   Technology     Treatment    Technology    Water (160
Destroyer,       Sewer                      Technology                 OF or 88 OC)
Treatment                                                                for 20
Technology                                                               minutes
Off-Site     Special Vehide      N/a          Speaal        Special       Special        N/a          N/a
Transport                                     Vehide        Vehicle       Vehicle
(untreated
waste)
Off-Site       Sanitabon         N/a         Sanitabon     Sanitabon     Sanitabon        N/a       Sanitabon
Transport        Truck                         Truck         Truck         Truck                      Truck
(treated
waste)
Disposal        Sanitary       Sanitary      Sanitary      Interment in   Sanitary        N/a       Recycling
Landfill       Sewer          Landfill    Bunal Site or   Landfill                 or Sanitary
Sanitary                                 Landfill
Landfill
N/a=not applicable, 'Recommended practce if storage bme is long enough to result in putnd smells from decaying organic waste
(e g, more than 48 hours) Note. Sinoe no informabon was obtained regarding the new incinerator to be able to evaluate its
capabilibes, the treatment technology for Nevis is not specified.
31



Table 8. Recommended Procedures for HeaDth Centers, Nevis
Facility                                              Health Centers
Waste                      Sharps                       Blood & Body Fluids             Regular Garbage
Type
Examples         Needles, Synnges, Blood Tubes           Free-flowing Blood                Garbage
Color Code                  Red                                Red                        Translucent
Marking           Biohazard Symbol, 'Sharps              Biohazard SymbO,                   none
"Biohazard'
Packaging      Puncture-Resistant Sharps Container      Leak-proof Container         Plastc Bag or Container
In-House                Covered Cart                       Covered Cart             Trolley or cart not used for
Transport                                                                               biomedical waste
Treatment     Automabc Needle Destroyer, Treabnent  Disciarge Into Sanitary Sewer            N/a
Technology
Storage               Protected Endosure                       N/a                    Regular Storage Area
Off-Site        Speaal Vehide or Transport Pouch               N/a                      Sanitabon Truck
Transport
Disposal               Sanitary Landfill                  Sanitary Sewer           Recyding or Sanitary Landfill
N/a=not applicable
Table 9. Recommended Procedures for Other Types of Waste (Classification 11)
Facility                                                   All
Waste              Expired         Chemotherapy Waste      Low-Level Radioactive   Other Hazardous Chemical
Type           Pharmaceutirals                                    Waste                     Waste
Examples       Condemned drugs     Chlorambucil, Cytoxin,  tnbum, iodine-125, carbon-    Formaldehyde,
Uracil Mustard          14, radium-226       tnchloroethylene, xylenes
Color               Brown                 Brown                   Brown                     Brown
Code
Marking       "Hazardous Waste"      Biohazard Symbol,       Radiabon Symbol,          "Hazardous Waste'
'Biohazard"         'Radioactve Waste"
Packaging      Rigid, Leak-proof      Rigid, Leak-proof       Rigid, Leak-proof    Rigid, Leak-proof Containers
Containers            Containers              Containers
In-House         Covered Cart          Covered Cart            Covered Cart              Covered Cart
Transport
Storage       Protected Enclosure   Protected Enclosure  Conditioned Waste, Secure     Protected Enclosure
Storage Facility with
Radiological Protecton
Off-Site        Special Vehide        Speaal Vehide           Speoal Vehide              Speaal Vehicle
Transport
Treatment      Retum to Supplier,   Retum to Supplier or  Decay in Storage, Retum to  Retum to Supplier, Chemical
& Disposal       Inertzabon,       Chemical Degradabon     Supplier, or Long-Term   Degradabon, Encapsulabon
Methods        Encapsulabon, or       (for bulk agents),  Storage (depending on half-  and Disposal in Hazardous
Sewer Discharge       Encapsulabon (for       life of radionuclide)   Waste Landfill, or Sewer
(depending on type of  trace-contaminated                              Discharge (depending on
I_________          drugs)                waste)                                         type of waste)
32



'I Jh ll 0/ ih(,n 'C'( l'IC (ai I 0.$1.' W a .i':1z./  -mc ni  ,  1c
14.   Employee Training and Public Education
Employee training and public education are key components of biomedical waste
management. The objectives of training and education are:
1. To prevent occupational and public exposure to infectious waste and
related health hazards
2. To foster responsibility among health care workers regarding medical
waste management
3. To create awareness and educate patients and visitors about the risks
related to medical waste and elicit their cooperation in preventing
exposure.
It should be the responsibility of the Waste Management Officer and Infection
Control Officer to ensure that training programs and annual refresher courses or
seminars take place.
Formal training of all health care personnel on biomedical waste management is
critical for a successful waste management program. Training can be in the form
of staff workshops, seminars, in-service training, or classroom-type instruction.
Separate training activities can be tailored and targeted to three different groups
in a health care facility:
*  Administrative managers and clerical staff
*  Medical doctors, nurses, lab technicians, and other health care
professionals
*  Cleaners, porters, waste handlers, and other auxiliary staff
General employee training programs should include the following:
*  Overview and rationale of the health care facility's policy on waste
management and the objectives of the policy
*  Roles and responsibilities of each staff member in implementing the
policy
*  Risks associated with medical waste, the basic elements of infection, and
the importance of safe practices
* Waste classification
* Procedures for waste minimization
* Procedures for waste segregation including labeling and color coding
* Overview of the fate of medical waste after collection: handling, storage,
transport, treatment, and final disposal
*  General cleaning, disinfection, and contingency procedures for spills and
accidents.
33



-I,I1(;t hi e q ni e m ln   i (Wak1t   Van1)tlQ(',/C ii J-T('u UC'2
o Reporting procedures for accidental exposures to infectious waste
(needle-sticks, blood splashes, etc.) or improper collection, handling, or
treatment practices.
For health care providers, the following additional precautions should be
emphasized:
o Special care has to be taken when dealing with sharps waste. Sharps
containers should not be overfilled. Needles should not be manually
removed from syringes.
o No attempt should be made to remove items from an infectious waste
bag or container. If an infectious waste item is accidentally placed in a
regular garbage bag, the entire mixture should be treated as potentially
infectious waste.
o Hazardous chemicals, such as mercury and formaldehyde, and
pressurized containers such as aerosol cans, should not be mixed with
potentially infectious waste.
Waste handlers and treatment technology operators should receive specialized
instruction. In addition to the above topics, training programs for them should
also include:
o Specific procedures for handling, including identifying the types of waste
in bags and containers through their colors and labels; when to seal bags;
how bags are sealed; how bags are picked up and deposited; how bags
should be carried; procedures for handling sharps containers; and
ergonomic issues.
o Specific procedures for storage (if needed) and transport of medical
waste, including how to keep waste segregated, loading and unloading
bags, and the proper use of carts
o Safe practices and use of protective equipment such as gloves and
footwear
o Emergency response to spills and other accidents
o General operating principles of the treatment technology
o Occupational safety, health, and environmental issues related to the
treatment technology
o Specific technical procedures for the operation and monitoring of the
treatment technology, including the loading and unloading of waste, start-
up and shut-down procedures, understanding equipment monitoring data,
and the use of controls
o Emergency response to equipment alarms and failures, including how to
detect abnormal conditions and malfunctions
o Maintenance procedures related to the treatment technology
o Removal of residues from the treatment technology
34



,Autdi 0! B,o n,10n ,'ic  t4l W PId,hW,,-g c II ,,,i , rIa( i1c
Public education may be done through the placement of posters (see for example
Appendix A5), handouts, and/or verbal instruction to patients and visitors
explaining the facility's color coding and labeling system. Importantly, patients
and visitors should be instructed: (1) not to place regular garbage into red, yellow,
or brown bags or containers marked with the intemational biohazard symbol, (2)
not to open or handle any biohazardous waste containers, (3) to keep children
away from any biohazardous waste containers, and (4) to report any spills or
accidents involving a biohazardous waste container immediately and to refrain
from touching any of the spilled contents.
35






APPENDIX Al: Sources of Infonmnaton
The following facilities were visited between November 13 to 15, 2001:
2.    Joseph N. France General Hospital, Basseterre, St. Kitts
3.     Newtown Health Center, St. Kitts
4.     Newtown Dental Clinic, St. Kitts
5.    Conaree Dumpsite, St. Kitts
6.    Alexandra Hospital, Charlestown, Nevis
7.     Low Ground Dumpsite, Nevis
8.     Prospect Senior Citizen Home, Nevis
The consultant met with the following individuals between November 13 to 15,
2001:
1.   Mr. Elvis Newton           Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health &
Environment, St Kitts and Nevis
2.   Mr. Clifford Griffin       Senior Officer, Ministry of Health, St Kitts
3.   Ms. Launette Adams         Operations Manager JNF Hospital, St.
Kitts
4.   Mrs. Jean Condor           Director of Health Institutions
5.   Ms. Agnes Beachman         Nursing Consultant, JNF Hospital, St Kitts
6.   Mr. Collin Mulley          Biomedical Technician Engineer, JNF
Hospital, St. Kitts
7.   Mrs. Jasmin Hanley         Manager, Laboratory, JNF Hospital, St.
Kitts
8.   Ms. Ena Sutton             Infection Control and Quality Assurance
Manager, JNF Hospital, St. Kitts
9.   Mr. Robert Bowry           Manager, Central Medical Supply
10. Mr. Joel Patrick            Radiographer, JNF Hospital, St Kitts
11. Mr. Halvon Hendrickson      Orderly, JNF Hospital, St Kitts
12. Sr. Gannett                 Maternity, JNF Hospital, St. Kitts
13. Mrs. Sylvia Isaac           Co-coordinator, Community Health
Services, Ministry of Health, St Kitts
14. Mr. Oliver Lawrence         Chief Environmental Health Officer,
Ministry of Health, St. Kitts
15. Mr. Carlton Frank           Senior Environmental Health Officer,
Ministry of Health, St. Kitts
16. Mr. Alphonso Bridgewater    Manager, Solid Waste Management
Corporation, St. Kitts



17. Mr. Warrington Chapman      Education Officer, Solid Waste
Management Corporation, St. Kitts
18. Mrs. Rhonda Lowry-Robinson  Nurse-in-Charge, Newtown Health Center
19. Dr. Nayan Bhandary          Dentist, Newtown Dental Clinic
20. Mr. Theodore Mills          Manager, Solid Waste, Nevis
21. Mr. St Clair Wallace        Permanent Secretary of Health, Nevis
22. Dr. Cuthwin Lake            Superintendent and Health Advisor,
Alexandra Hospital, Nevis
23. Mrs. Loraine Hanley-Browne  Supervisor, Public Health Nurse, Ministry
of Health, Nevis
24. Mr. George Meade            Maintenance, Alexandra Hospital Nevis
25. Mr. Bernard Liburd          Maintenance, Alexandra Hospital Nevis
26. Mrs. Veta A. Morton         Laboratory Technician, Alexandra
Hospital, Nevis
27. Mr. Adrian Douglas          Student Laboratory Technician, Alexandra
Hospital, Nevis
28. Mr. Earl Dowd               Maintenance Technician, Alexandra
Hospital, Nevis
29. Ms. Myma Webbe              Avalon Medical Laboratory, Nevis
30. Dr. Janardhan Vathada       Dental Surgeon, Nevis
31. Mr. Stedroy Williams        Senior Public Health Inspector, Nevis
32. Ms. Joselyn Liburd          Administrator, Alexandra Hospital, Nevis
33. Ms. Viola Martin            Assistant Matron, Alexandra Hospital,
Nevis
34. Mr. Loston Nisbett          Pharmacist, Alexandra Hospital, Nevis
35. Mrs. Adriene Stanley        Nursing Sister, Alexandra Hospital, Nevis
36. Ms. Simone Hill             Nurse, Alexandra Hospital, Nevis
37. Mr. Andie Jn.Panel          OECS, St. Lucia
The following documents were obtained during and after the site visit:
1.    Inventory of Health Centers St. Kitts and Nevis, prepared by Ms. Sylvia
Isaacs, 8 November 2001; provided by Mr. Clifford Griffin, Ministry of
Health.
2.     List of doctors and pharmacies in St. Kitts and Nevis, facsimile copy dated
7 November 2001; provided by Mr. Clifford Griffin, Ministry of Health.
3.     "Waste Disposal Policy and Procedure," JNF Hospital, St. Kitts
(undated).
4.     Lesson Plan #2, Infection Control Education and Annual Review; Weekly
Update form, Infection Control; Field Audit form, Infection Control; and
Patient Audit form, Infection Control; forms and sample lesson plan
provided by Ms. Agnes Beachman, Nursing Consultant, JNF Hospital, St.
Kitts.
5.    'Bio-Medical Waste Management Plan: St. Christopher and Nevis," Draft
Report, CBCL Limited Consulting Engineers, prepared for OECS,
February 2000.
6.    'The Solid Waste Management Bill, 2000," Saint Christopher and Nevis.
7.     Electronic mail from Mr. Clifford Griffin, 23 November 2001.
A1-2



About a hundred digital photographs were taken during the site visits. Below are
brief descriptions and the number of photographs obtained:
1.    Incinerator and storage area, JNF Hospital - 4
2.    Various waste containers, JNF Hospital - 9
3.     Large garbage collection bins, Long Point - 2
4.     Long Point Dump Site - 12
5.    Various waste containers, Alexandra Hospital - 8
6.    Incinerator and surrounding area, Alexandra Hospital - 8
7.    Waste containers in the Laboratory, Alexandra Hospital - 6
8.    Waste containers in the medical/surgical ward, Alexandra Hospital - 2
9.    Waste container, Prospect Center - 1
10.   Waste containers, Microbiology, JNF Hospital - 3
11.   Close-up of sharps container, JNF Hospital - 4
12.   Waste trolley, JNF Hospital - 2
13.   Conaree Dump Site - 20
14.   JNF Hospital entrance - 3
15.   Incinerator and storage area, JNF Hospital - 8
16.   Waste disposal, Radiology, JNF Hospital - 3
17.   Regular garbage bin - 1
18.   Waste containers and unused incinerator, Newtown Clinic - 8
19.   Waste containers, Newtown Dental Clinic - 6
20.   Abattoir facility - 1
A1-3






Audit of Medical Waste Management Pmctices
APPENDIX A2: Waste Disposal Policy and
Procedure-JNF General Hospital
Purpose: To eliminate the potential hazard to patients, staff and the general public from
potentially infectious waste
Policy: All hospital waste matenal will be disposed of in one of three (3) different coloured bags-
clear, red or yellow. In addition, all sharps will be disposed of in red or yellow sharps contamers
*   Clear bags:                         for all non-contaminated waste
*   Red bags:                           for all potentially mfectious waste
*   Yellow bags:                         for all trace chemotherapeutic waste
*   Red puncture-resistant containers:  for all discarded sharps, except trace chemo sharps
Patient areas ill require red bags only in soiled utility rooms, treatment/utlity rooms, medication
rooms and patient rooms with highly contagious conditions (NOT T.B., HIV) such as Ebola, Lassa
Fever.
Responsibility
All patent contact staff: distinguish types of waste and place in proper containers/bags
Laboratory: Proper disposal of lab waste
Pathology: Prepare pathological waste for transfer m appropriate containers
Housekeepmg. Collection and transport of all waste matenals, prepare for delivery to on-site
treatment and destruction (routine pick up or mcmeration)
Waste Disposal Methods
Categorn              Material                      Disposal Method      Bag/container
Pathological
All Areas             All human tissue, carcasses and  on-site incinerator  hand-delivered in
bedding exposed to pathogenic                       containers or bags to
organisms                                           pathology
Laboratory
Clinical             All matenals - solids and      Autoclaved on site   Red autoclave bag
Microbiology         liquids (e.g., bactenal, viral or                    with indicator
fungal culture specimens In
tightly lidded or stoppered non-
glass contamers, petri dishes)
Culture in glass containers   Autoclaved on site    Red autoclave bag
e.g. blood culture bottles                          with indicator
discard in puncture
resistant red contamers
A2-I



Audit ofMedical Waste Management Practices
All pasteur pipettes, blood vials,  on site treatment and  Puncture-resistant red
Test tubes, slides, cover slips,  destruction         containers
broken or unbroken glassware in
contact with infectious agents
Clinical,             All specimens from patients     on site treatment and  Red bags
Pathological and      with highly comrnunicable       destruction
Research (other       diseases (clots, sera, etc.)
than Cl. Micro)
All bactenal, viral or fungal   autoclave on site     autoclave red bag with
culture matenal In non-glass                          indicator then discard
containers                                            in red bag
Culture in glass containers     autoclave on site     as above, then
puncture-resistant red
containers
Other glassware in contact with  on site treatment and  puncture resistant red
mifectious agents               destruction           containers
Sharps                That which will cause puncture  on site treatment and  puncture resistant red
or cut, i.e., All needles, synnges,  destruction      containers
blades, lancets, pasteur pipettes,
blood vials, test tubes, slides,
cover slips, broken or unbroken
glassware In contact with
mfectous agents
Sharps Chemo          as above used in chemotherapy   on site incuineratnon  Yellow puncture-
resistant containers
Biological            Liquids: excretion, exudates,   Sewer - discard liquid  discard container into
(patient care Areas)  secretions, suctionings m non-  in utility sink, hopper,  clear bag
sealed containers              bedpan flushes or
Toilet (never dispose
in Handwashing
suiks)
Solids and disposable medical  regular waste disposal  Clear bags
supplies in contact with patient  system
(except tubing), e.g., disposable
towels, gown, apron, underpads,
gloves, masks, clamps,
electrodes
A2-2



Audit of Medical Waste Management Practices
APPENDIX A3: Sample Institutional Policy
Purpose: To provide a system for management of biomedical waste in order to
protect patients, staff, and the general public from hazards associated with
biomedical waste
Responsibilities: All staff must be familiar with the policy, guidelines, and
implementation plan and participate in training dealing with biomedical waste
management. Department Heads and Matron should ensure that staff within their
departments are familiar with the policy, guidelines, and plan, and have received
training.  The Waste Management Officer is responsible for day-to-day
implementation and monitoring of biomedical waste management. The Waste
Management Team is responsible for the policy, guidelines and plan.
Policy:
Occupational Safety: Appropriate personal protective equipment must be used
when dealing with biomedical waste. Waste handlers will receive immunization
from viral hepatitis and tetanus.
Waste Minimization: The institution is committed to minimizing the impact of our
waste on the environment. Staff members are responsible for participating in
waste reduction and recycling programs.
Classification: The following categories of waste are considered biomedical
waste and must be handled cautiously as biohazardous or hazardous waste:
sharps; cultures and stocks; human blood, blood products, and body fluids;
pathological waste; animal waste; selected isolation waste; pharmaceutical
waste; chemotherapy waste; low-level radioactive waste; and other hazardous
chemical waste.
Segregation:  Biomedical waste will be segregated throughout the facility.
Segregation should take place at or as close as possible to the point where the
waste is generated, and segregation should be maintained during storage and
transport up to the point of treatment.
Labeling and Color Codinq: Every container for infectious biomedical waste must
have the international biohazard symbol in a contrasting color painted or affixed to
the container, along with the words "Biohazard" or "Sharps" whichever is
appropriate. The following color coding will be used:
TYPE OF WASTE              COLOR OF BAG OR CONTAINER
Potentially Infectious Waste  RED
Sharps                    RED
Washable Contaminated Linen  YELLOW
Chemical, Pharmaceutical, or  BROWN
Chemotherapeutic Waste   I_I
Regular garbage           TRANSLUCENT
A3-1



Audit of Medical Waste Management Practices
Red bags will be available in treatment rooms, surgical suites, emergency room,
nurses' stations, and isolation rooms. Sharps containers will be available in
medical and surgical wards, laboratory or phlebotomy stations, nurses' stations,
treatment rooms, emergency rooms, and other areas easily accessible to
personnel near the area where sharps are used.
Collection, Storage, Transport, and Treatment: The procedures for biomedical
waste management are summarized in the tables in the next two pages.
Training:  Formal training will be provided to all health-care personnel on
biomedical waste management. Staff is required to attend the in-service training
or workshops and refresher course.
Contingency Planning: Copies of the institution's contingency plans for waste
spillage or other emergencies are found in          . Staff should be
familiar with the contingency plan. Spills will be managed by the housekeeping
staff under the supervision of the Waste Management Officer.
Reporting: Any incidents such as biomedical waste spills, needle-stick punctures,
or other injuries associated with biomedical waste should be reported immediately
to the Waste Management Officer (name             ).
A3 -2



Audit ofAledical Waste Management Practces
SUMMARY OF BIOMEDICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES
Waste         Sharps     Cultures &   Blood &        Pathological Waste     Isolation   (Contamin    Regular
Type                       Stocks       Body                                 Waste         ated      Garbage
Fluids                                             Linen)
Examples      Needles,     Culture      Free-      Tissues,    Placentas,    Swabs,      Bedding     Garbage
Synnges,      dishes     flowmng    Body Parts     Fetuses      Soiled
Blood                    Blood                                Dressing
Tubes
Color           Red         Red         Red          Red          Red         Red         Yellow      Trans-
Code                                                                                                  lucent
Marking      Biohazard   Biohazard    Biohazard   Biohazard    Biohazard    Biohazard   Biohazard     none
Symbol,     Symbol,      Symbol,     Symbol,      Symbol,      Symbol,     Symbol,
"Sharps"    'Biohazard  'Biohazard"  'Biohazard'  'Biohazard'  'Biohazard'  'Biohazard'
Packaging    Puncture-   Plasbc Bag   Leak-proof  Plastc Bag   Plastc Bag  Plastc Bag    Plasbc or    Plastc
Resistant   in a Rigid  Container    in a Rigid  in a Rigid   in a Rigid   Linen Bag    Bag or
Sharps     Container                Container    Container    Container               Container
Container                                      I
In-House      Covered     Covered     Covered      Covered      Covered      Covered     Covered    Trolley or
Transport       Cart        Cart        Cart         Cart         Cart        Cart         Cart      cart not
used for
biomed-
ical waste
Storage      Protected    Protected     N/a       Protected    Protected    Protected      N/a       Regular
Endosure    Endosure,                Endosure,    Endosure,    Enclosure,               storage
4 IC or 39               4 OC or 39  4 OC or 39 OF  4 OC or 39               area
OF *                     OF *                     OF *_.
Treatment    Automabc    Advancod     Discharge   Advanced      Bunal or    Advanced     Wash in       N/a
Needle     Autodave       Into      Autoclave    Advanced     Autodave    Hot Water
Destroyer,               Sanitary                 Autoclave                (160 OF or
Advanced                  Sewer                                             88 °C) for
Autoclave                                                                  20 minutes
Off-Site      Special      Special       N/a       Speaal       Speoal       Special       N/a         N/a
Transport     Vehicle      Vehide                  Vehicle      Vehicle      Vehicle
(untreated
waste)
Off-Site     Sanitaton    Sanitabon      N/a      Sanitabon    Sanitafion   Sanitabon      N/a      Sanitaton
Transport      Truck       Truck                    Truck        Truck        Truck                   Truck
(treated
waste)
Disposal      Sanitary    Sanitary    Sanitary     Sanitary   Interment in   Sanitary      N/a      Recycling
Landfill    Landfill     Sewer       Landfill   Burial Site or  Landfill                 or
Sanitary                             Sanitary
Landfill                             Landfill
*If storage bme is long enough to result in putnd smells from decaying organic waste
A3-3



Audit of Medical Waste Management Practices
SUMMARY OF BlOME=iICAL WASTE GANAGEMlEMT [PROCEDSIURES (Continued)
Waste             Expired         Chemotherapy Waste     Low-Level Radioactive   Other Hazardous Chemical
Type          Pharmaceuticals                                   Waste                    Waste
Examples      Condemned drugs     Chlorambual, Cytoxin,  tntium, iodine-125, carbon-  Fomaldehyde,
Uradl Mustard          14, radium-226       trichlomethylene, xylenes
Color              Brown                 Brown                  Brown                     Brown
Code
Marking       'Hazardous Waste"     Biohazard Symbol,      Radiation Symbol,        'Hazardous Waste"
'Biohazard"         'Radioactive Waste"
Packaging     Rigid or Leak-proof   Rigid or Leak-proof    Rigid or Leak-proof       Rigid or Leak-proof
Containers            Containers             Containers                Containers
In-House        Covered Cart          Covered Cart           Covered Cart              Covered Cart
Transport
Storage      Protected Enclosure   Protected Endosure   Condiboned Waste, Secure    Protected Enclosure
Storage Facility with
Radiological Protection
Off-Site       Special Vehide        Speaal Vehide          Spedal Vehide             Special Vehide
Transport
Treatment     Retum to Supplier,   Retum to Supplier or  Decay in Storage, Retum to  Retum to Supplier, Chemical
& Disposal       Inertzabon,      Chemical Degradabon    Supplier, or Long-Term  Degradabon, Encapsulabon
Methods        Encapsulabon, or     (for bulk agents),  Storage (depending on half-  and Disposal in Hazardous
Sewer Discharge      Encapsulabon (for      life of radionudide)    Waste Landfill, or Sewer
(depending on type of  trace-contaminated                            DLscharge (depending on
drugs)                waste)                                        type of waste)
A3-4



Audit o/Medical Waste Management Pmclces
APPENDIXA4: Waste Minimizaton
Waste minimization is the reduction, to the greatest extent possible, of waste that
is destined for ultimate disposal, by means of reuse, recycling, and other
programs. The potential benefits of waste minimization are: environmental
protection, enhanced occupational safety and health, cost reductions, reduced
liability, regulatory compliance, and improved community relations. The following
is the recommended hierarchy of waste minimization techniques in order of
decreasing preference:
1. Segregation - making sure waste items are in the appropriate container.
Staff training is essential to keep regulated medical waste, hazardous
waste such as mercury, low-level radioactive waste, and regular trash
separated from each other.
2. Source reduction - minimizing or eliminating the generation of waste at
the source itself; source reduction should have a higher priority than
recycling or reuse. Users, waste managers, and product standardization
committees should be aware of what waste is generated by the products
they buy. Source reduction requires the involvement of purchasing staff.
Steps should be taken to reduce at the source regulated medical waste,
hazardous waste, low-level radioactive waste, as well as regular trash.
Some specific source reduction techniques include:
a. Material elimination, change or product substitution, e.g.,
substituting a non-toxic biodegradable cleaner for a cleaner that
generates hazardous waste; employing multiple-use instead of
single-use products; using short-lived radionuclides instead of
radium-226 needles in cancer treatment
b. Technology or process change, e.g., using non-mercury-
containing devices instead of mercury thermometers or mercury
switches; using ultrasonic or steam cleaning instead of chemical-
based cleaners
c. Good operating practice, e.g., improving inventory control;
covering disinfecting solution trays to prevent evaporative losses;
using the minimum formulation recommended for an application
d. Preferential purchasing such as selecting vendors with reduced
packaging
3. Resource recovery and recycling - recovery and reuse of materials
from the waste stream. Some specific examples include:
a. Recycling newspapers, packaging material, office paper, glass,
aluminum cans, construction debris, and other recyclables
b. Purchasing products made of post-consumer recycled material
c. Composting organic food waste
A4-1



Audit ofMed,cal Waste Management Practices
d. Recoverng silver from photographic chemicals
4. Treatment - treatment to remove and concentrate waste, preferably in
process rather than end-of-pipe treatment. An example might be the use
of filters and traps to remove mercury from wastewater.
5. Proper MDsposal - when all possible waste minimization options have
been exhausted, the remaining waste should be disposed in the method
with the least environmental impact.
The commitment of top management, active involvement of individuals from
different departments, communication, and educational programs are essential to
a successful waste minimization program.
APPROACHES TO WASTE MINIMIZATION
There are four basic stages in the development of a waste minimization program.
These are: planning and organization, assessment, feasibility analysis, and
implementation.
The initial stage of planning and organization entails getting healthcare
management to be committed to waste minimization (reflected in a formal policy
statement), setting overall goals, and staffing a task force to get key personnel
from affected departments involved.
The assessment phase begins with the collection of data regarding waste
streams, processes and operations which are sources of these wastes, types of
practices and process control, waste analysis, information on input materials, and
economic information. A medical waste analysis (described below) is a valuable
tool for the assessment phase. Flow diagrams and material balances are useful
in identifying sources and attempting to quantify losses or emissions. It may be
necessary to prioritize waste streams based on quantity, toxicity, environmental
impact, potential liability, regulations, cost, and other factors.
An assessment team of selected staff people with the assistance of outside
consultants should review the data, inspect specific areas of waste generation,
come up with waste minimization altematives, and screen and select options for
study. With regards to municipal solid waste, the assessment team needs to
determine the recyclability of materials.
In the feasibility analysis phase, a technical and economic evaluation is
conducted of the selected options. Among the criteria for technical evaluation are
worker safety, maintaining quality of product or service, compatibility with existing
operating procedures and work schedules, minimal disruption to install a new
system or process, space availability, etc. The economic evaluation uses
standard measures of comparative analysis such as payback period, retum on
investment, and net present value.
The final phase is implementation. This entails obtaining funding, education and
communications programs, installing new equipment or initiating new procedures,
and evaluating the performance. A demonstration may be necessary to evaluate
A4 -2



Audit of Afedical Wf/aste Management Practices
an option before final installation. Education and communications programs are
essential. They must be designed to reach out to the entire staff, tap existing
channels of education, provide education on a continuing basis especially for new
staff, and respond to feedback from employees.
There are various measures to determine the effectiveness of waste
minimization. The initial method is to simply compare recorded quantities of
waste generated before and after implementation.  However, since waste
generation may be dependent on rate of operation, the ratio of waste generation
rate to some measure of rate of operation (such as number of occupied beds per
day) is another way to analyze waste reduction. Another measure is to analyze
the waste minimization project's impact on the institution's cash flow which may
reflect reduced cost for waste management and raw materials.  In some
instances, waste reduction may be expressed in terms of the ratio of input
material consumption to rate of operation. These measurements are complicated
by processes or services that generate waste infrequently or intermittently, and
some evaluation methods may be more appropriate to specific units in the facility
rather than the entire facility.
MEDICAL WASTE ANALYSIS
A medical waste analysis or assessment can provide data on the sources of
waste, compositions, generation rates, and waste flow within the facility. Medical
waste  analysis involves  preparation,  data  collection,  analysis,  and
recommendations. Preparation entails defining goals, planning, enlisting the
cooperation of key personnel and department heads, and a preliminary "walk-
through" of the facility. Data can be collected in-house using self-audit forms and
questionnaires. Another approach is to employ an outside consultant. The need
for representative sampling determines the time period for data collection. Data
collected for a few days provides a snapshot of the waste flow. Collecting data
for two or more weeks requires greater staff effort but it may reveal important
variations during different days of the week. A third approach is to install a
computerized waste tracking system for long-term data collection. A "waste sort"
(separating and weighing components of waste collected during a time period)
provides a more detailed analysis of waste composition and requires personal
protective equipment.
From the data, one establishes the flow of waste and generation rates of every
unit of the facility.  Data on waste composition can be used to evaluate
classification and segregation practices.  Over-classification (treating non-
infectious waste as infectious waste) and lack of segregation (commingling
regular waste with infectious or hazardous waste) add significantly to treatment
and disposal costs. A waste analysis can uncover inefficiencies, estimate the true
costs of waste management, and establish the levels of compliance to policies.
Waste analysis is essential in waste minimization as well as in related goals such
as developing recommendations for cost reduction, improving compliance, and
reducing risk and liability.
A4-3



Audti ofMedical Waste Management Practices
SUGGESTED WASTE MINIMIZATION OPTIONS
Some suggested waste minimization methods for different types of waste are
summarized below. The table shows the areas in a hospital where recyclable
solid waste is generated and the types of common recyclables found. The
health-care facility may have to explore and negotiate with firms to accept
materials for reuse and recycling or to help develop markets for recyclables.
Sources and Types of Common Recyclable Waste in a Hospital
Sources               OCC     N    MG     WP     C    CPO    AVIM    G    P    P    P     P    P    other
P                  p                        1    2     5    6    P
ShippinglRecvg          x     x            x           x       x                               x      1
Food Service            x                                      x     x    x    x          x           2
Laboratory              x           x      x     x     x                       x     x         x
Pabent Care             x     x     x      x     x     x       x     x         x     x
Admin Offioes           x     x     x      x     x     x
Radiology, CT           x                  x     x                   x         x     x                3
Surgery                 x           x      x     x                   x         x     x    x
Pharmacy                x           x      x           x             x         x
Dialysis                x     x            x     x             x               x
Doctors Offices               x     x      x     x                             x
Medical Records               x            x     x     x       x
Housekeeping            x                  x                                   x                      4
Faolity Mgt             x                  x                   x               x                      5
Public Areas                  x     x                          x     x
Hospital-wide                                                                                         6
Legend. OCC - corrugated cardboard packaging; NP - newspaper, MG - magaanes; WP - white office paper, CP - colored
ledger paper, CPO - computer pnntout paper (greenbar, bluebar); AV/M - aluminum and metal beverage, food, and other cans, G -
glass including dear glass; P1 - PETE plastcs (soda bottles); P2 - HDPE (milk jugs, dialysis solubons, food stuffs, deaning
solubons), P5 - polypropylene (sterile irrigabon fluid bottes), P6 - polystyrene (food service and supply packaging); PP -
polystyrene (Styrofoam) packaging peanuts; Other. 1 - stretchw rap; 2- grease, organic food waste, aerosol cans; 3-film, silver
recovery, 4 - aerosol cans, 5 - wood, aerosol cans, construction & demolibon debns, palettes. 6 - other recydables found hospital-
wide indude durable goods such as fumishings, clipboards, old computer equipment, desks, drapes, mattresses, carpets,
binders, dishware, phone directones, pnnter cartndges, etc. [Source An Ounce of Prevenion: Waste Reduction Strategies for
Health Care Facilities, C.L Bisson, G. McRae, and H.G. Shaner, Amencan Society for Healthcare Environmental Services
(Amencan Hospital Assoaabon), Chicago, Illinois, 1993.]
An extra effort needs to be invested in segregating recyclable from non-recyclable
waste. The facility should develop an intemal system for collecting paper, glass,
aluminum, and       other recyclables.       This   may   entail investing     in  recycling
equipment and collection containers. There may be recycling and waste-hauling
companies who could provide recycling services.
In addition to paper, glass, and aluminum recycling, other ideas for recycling
include: identifying markets for plastic waste which comprise a significant
percentage of solid waste from hospitals; recycling or proper disposal of batteries;
special recycling programs for bulky materials (old mattresses, furniture,
stretchers, etc.); and recycling of construction and demolition waste. There may
be opportunities for recycling of scrap aluminum, wallboard, wood, metal piping,
wiring, etc.
Another major potential for hospitals is composting to recycle organic wastes
such as food, yard, and wood fiber (low-grade paper and boxboard) scraps.
The purchasing departments of healthcare facilities play a major role in 'closing
the loop" by seeking out and purchasing products made mostly of postconsumer
recycled material. They can also reduce waste generation by purchasing goods
A4 -4



Audit of Medical Waste Management Practices
for their durability and "reprocessability," selecting products with minimal
packaging, and working with supplier to support waste minimization. A product
management approach can identify opportunities for reducing waste through
purchasing, inventory control, changes in packaging, and working with suppliers.
RESOURCES
Many resources are available to assist health care organizations develop an
effective waste minimization program in their facilities (see box insert). Books
such as Guidebook for Hospital Waste Reduction Planning and Program
Implementation, An Ounce of Prevention: Waste Reduction Strategies for Health
Care Facilities, and The Waste Not Book provide valuable information and
practical suggestions.
RECONlMENDED READINGS ON WASTE MINIMIIZATION
Waste minimization model plans and guides including a chemical waste minimization plan, mercury-virtual elimination plan, and gulde to
environmentally-preferable purchasing Hospitals for a Healthy Environment (an Amencan Hospital Association and U S Environmental
Protection Agency partnership) (available at wkvw h2e-online or,)
On-line resources on waste minimization for hospitals and laboratones, Minnesota Technical Assistance Program (MnTAP), University of
Minnesota, School of Public Health, Division of Environmental and Occupational Health (wv%'w mntap umn edu )
Waste Almuniziation in the HealtJhcare Industro A Resource Guide. J Emmanuel, EPRI, Palo Alto, CA 1999 TR-1 13841 (EPRJ, 3412
Hillview Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94303, 800-313-3774)
Environmental Managemnent in Healthicare Facilities, Edited by K D Wagner, C.D Rounds, and R Spurgin, W B Saunders Company,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1998 (W B Saunders Company, The Curtis Center, Independence Square West, Philadelphia, PA 19106,
800-545-2522, http llwww harcounhealth conv)
Guidebook for Hospital Waste Reduction Planning and Prograni Implementation, Glenn McRae and Holhie Gusky Shaner, RN, Amencan
Society for Healthcare Environmental Services (Amencan Hospital Association), Chicago, Illinois, 1996 (AHA Secvices, Inc, P O Box
92683, Chicago, IL 60675-2683, 800-AHA-2626)
An OUaIce ofPrevention Waste Reduction Strategiesfor Health Care Facilities, C.L. Bisson, G McRae, and H G Shaner, Amencan Society
for Healthcare Environmental Services (Amencan Hospital Association), Chicago, Illinois, 1993  (AHA Services, Inc, PO Box 92683,
Chicago. IL 60675-2683, 800-AtHA-2626)
Tle 1Waste A'o Book, Public Affairs Division, Minnesota Hospital Association, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1993 (Minnesota Hospital and
Healthcare Partnership, 2550 W  University Avenue, Suite 350-S, St Paul, MN 55114-1900, 800462-5393, www mhhp com)
"Facility Pollution Prevention Guide," EPA/600/R-92/088, U S Environmental Protection Agency, Risk Reduction Engineenng Laboratory,
Off-ice of Research and Development, Cincinnati, Ohio, 1992 1
"Hospital Pollution Prevention Study," EPA/600/2-91/024, prepared by R Linen for DeparTment ofVeterans Affairs, Washington, DC, and
Risk Reduction Engineenng Laboratory, Office of Research and Development, Cincinnati, Ohio, July 1991 *
"Guides to Pollution Prevention Selected Hospital Waste Streamns" (formerly titled "Guide to Waste Minimization in Selected Hospital
Waste Streams"), EPA/625/7-901009, U S Environmental Protection Agency, Risk Reduction Engineenng Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio.
June 1990 *
"Waste Minimization Opportunity Assessment Manual," EPA/625/7-88-003, U S Environmental Protection Agency, Hazardous Waste
Engineenng Research Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio, 1988 *
( Contact EPA Publications at 800490-9198 or check out littp lvww epa gov/epahome/publicatioits htm for EPA reports)
A4-5






Audit ofMedical Waste Management Practtces
APPENDIXA5: Sample Poster
HOSPITAL WASTE            I
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM |
BIONMEDICAL WASTE
ailising from direct patient care
r~~                           _
FOUL & INFECTED LINEN
4-
CHENMOTHERPAPY,
_IW -   ~             PHARMACEUTICAL &
CHEMICAL WrASTE
REGULAR TRASH
A5 -1






Audit of Medical Waste Management Practices
APPENDIX A6: Ideas for Hazardous Waste
Minimization
WASTE TYPES       SOME HAZARDOUS WASTE MINIMIZATION IDEAS
Solvents          Recover/reuse solvents through on-site or off-site distillation; e g., use fractional disbillation
to separate xylene from ethanol in histology waste
Substitute less hazardous solvents, use non-halogenated for halogenated compounds, and
simple alcohols and ketones for petroleum hydrocarbons; use aqueous reagents
whenever possible.
Consider commercial xylene substitutes as histology solvents.
Use pre-mixed kits for tests involving solvent fixabon.
Use high-resolubon analytical equipment to reduce analyte test volumes.
Use calibrated solvent dispensers for routine tests.
Minimize sizes of cultures and specimens in pathology, histology and labs.
Formaldehyde      Use reverse osmosis water treatment to reduce dialysis cleaning demands.
wastes             Minimize strength of formaldehyde solubons.
Develop standards for Formalin solutions based on microbial culture studies to determine
minimum cleaning frequency and solubon concentrabons.
Investigate possible reuse of formaldehyde in pathology and autopsy.
Use a chemical addibve that reacts with and cross-links waste formaldehyde solutions to
form a non-hazardous end product.
Antneoplastic     Substtute degradable drugs for environmentally persistent drugs.
agents            Optimize drug container sizes in purchasing and buy according to need.
Retum outdated drugs to manufacturers.
Minimize the cleaning frequency and volume of gauze matenal used for the compounding
hood.
Provide spill cleanup kits and employee training.
Photographic      Recover silver using cabon exchange and electrolytic recovery instead of steel wool
chemicals          filtration units.
Ensure proper storage conditions to increase shelf life and test expired material for
usefulness; retum off-spec developer to manufacturer.
Cover developer and fixer tanks to reduce evaporabon and oxidation; consider adding
ammonium thiosulfate to fixer or an acetic acid bath prior to fixing to extend life of fixing
bath; use squeegees to reduce bath losses.
Recycle spoiled film and paper.
Use countercurrent washing.
Use a chemical additive that neutralizes spent fixer and developer waste and permanently
binds silver to a solid matnx.
Mercury wastes    Subsbtute electronic sensing devices and other non-mercury substitutes for mercury-
containing devices
Provide mercury spill cleanup kits and train personnel.
Completely drain residual mercury from medical devices and consider off-site recycling of
uncontaminated mercury.
Disinfecting      Use ultrasonic or steam cleaning instead of alcohol-based disinfectants.
solubons          Keep disinfecting solution trays and containers well covered to avoid loss by evaporation.
Use a chemical addibve that reacts with and cross-links glutaraldehyde wastewater to form
a non-hazardous end product
Maintenance and   Use ultrasonic or steam cleaning instead of aqueous or chemical-based cleaners, use
utility wastes     biodegradable cleaners instead of solvent-based cleaners.
Collect waste oil and solvents for recycling; segregate recyclable oils and solvents from
non-recyclables.
Replace oil-based paints with water-based paints.
Use only required pesticide quantties or use non-chemical pesticide control methods.
[Source: 'Guides to Pollution Prevenbon: Selected Hospital Waste Streams," EPA162517-90/009, U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, Risk Reducton Engineering Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio, June 1990.]
A6-1






IE & ER Group                E & ER Group   Phone 510-799-2551
628 Second Street  Fax 510-799-2572
Rodeo, CA 94572 USA
MCOV               I I adKe,U RIImmmetn d az~%t'H.1n ra- 
eicaiW Waste Treate
TachnoHogyAlwl
St. Kitts and       Nevis
Prepared for:
Natural Resources Management Unit (NRMU)
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)
January 18, 2002






Table of Contents
Executive Summary ..............    ..........................i
Introduction  ...........................................
Objectives ..1
Types of Biomedical Waste Treatment Processes ........1
Selection Criteria ............  ............................3
Screening of Treatment Technologies ............................7
Comparison of Advanced Autoclaves
and Incinerators .........................................9
Summary: Tabulated Comparisons ............................... 20
Potential Impact of the Stockholm Convention ........... 21
Recommendation .............      .......................... 21
Cost Estimates for an Advanced Autoclave ................. 22
Appendix
Tender Specifications for an Advanced Autoclave
Treatment Technology .......................................  B1
Operating Procedures, Preventive Maintenance,
Training Requirements, and Periodic Verification
Testing of Treatment Technology ............................ B2






EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This report presents a review of available biomedical waste
treatment technologies and makes recommendations for St. Kitts.
The possible location of the technology will be explored with
stakeholders.
There are basically four processes involved in treating biomedical
waste: thermal, chemical, irradiative, and biological processes.
Screening criteria include size (throughput rate), level of
commercialization, cost of the technology, and ability to meet
international environmental standards. These criteria are used to
initially screen 49 specific technologies resulting in the selection of
two commercially available advanced autoclaves.  The final
selection considers a range of other factors including space, utility,
and installation requirements, occupational safety, noise, odor,
level of automation and ease of use, skill and training required to
operate the technology, reliability, maintenance, and availability of
technical support.
A major portion of the report compares advanced autoclaves with
incinerators. Comparisons focus on environmental issues, public
and occupational health impacts, pathogen destruction, and costs.
The possible ramifications of the newly completed Stockholm
Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants on medical waste
incineration are also discussed. Comparisons of an advanced
autoclave and incinerator are summarized in tabular form.
Recommendations are made to replace the JNF Hospital
incinerator with an advanced autoclave, in particular, the San-l-Pak
230-3P Auto-Clave system.  Costs estimates are presented.
Tender specifications can be found in the Appendix. Operating
procedures, preventive maintenance, training requirements, and
periodic validation testing are discussed in the Appendix.






INTRODUCIION
This project is a component of a larger World Bank-funded program to address the
problem of solid and ship-generated wastes with the goal of protecting the
environment and enforcing the MARPOL 73f78 Convention.  The program
involves six members of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)
and is coordinated by the Natural Resources Management Unit of OECS.
This particular component of the project deals with the management of health-care
waste and has four specific tasks: (1) an audit of medical waste management
practices, (2) review of existing medical waste treatment technologies, (3)
development of a national biomedical waste management plan, and (4) a training
program/implementation and monitoring.
This report corresponds to the second of the aforementioned four tasks. The
report was prepared by Dr. Jorge Emmanuel of the E & ER Group based in
Rodeo, California, USA. The author is grateful to Mr. Clifford Griffin of the Ministry
of Health and Mr. Theodore Mills for their invaluable assistance during his first visit.
He also acknowledges the support of Permanent Secretaries Mr. Elvis Newton
and Mr. St Clair Wallace, as well as Ms. Nona Adams of JNF Hospital and all the
personnel who provided information at facilities in St. Kitts and Nevis.
Jorge Emmanuel, PhD, CHMM, PE, REP, DES
President, The E & ER Group
628 Second Street
Rodeo, CA 94572
USA
Ph 510-799-2551
Fax 510-799-2572
E-mail: iemmanuelC_mindsprinq com






RLi'c'(Iaelndl RcLommneandation on a .  Ied(/I( *al F1 ,.t. 7; e(Itfl T itne   Tt'cIh dg,Io,'
Review and Recommendation on a Medical Waste
Treatment Technology
S.      i"" --                                          -    -
The objectives of this report are to review available waste treatment technologies
and to make recommendations. Only technologies that have been documented
as meeting intemationally accepted levels of microbiological inactivation efficacy
are considered in this report.
This report is focused on St. Kitts alone. Although the consultant has conducted
many tests and technical evaluations of hospital incinerators around the world,
no assessment could be made for Nevis since no information has been obtained
regarding the new incinerator despite follow-up requests for data.
Treatment technologies can be classified based on the fundamental processes
used to decontaminate the waste. The four basic processes are:
1. Thermal processes
2. Chemical processes
3. Irradiative processes
4. Biological processes
The majority of technologies employ the first two processes listed above.
Thermal processes are those that rely on heat (thermal energy) to destroy
pathogens in the waste. This category is further subdivided into low-heat,
medium-heat, and high-heat thermal processes. This further subclassification is
necessary because physical and chemical mechanisms that take place in thermal
processes change markedly at medium and high temperatures.
Low-heat thermal processes are those that use thermal energy to decontaminate
the waste at temperatures insufficient to cause chemical breakdown or to support
combustion or pyrolysis. In general, low-heat thermal technologies operate
between 200°F to about 350°F (930C -177°C). The two basic categories of low-
heat thermal processes are wet heat (steam) and dry heat (hot air) disinfection.
Wet heat treatment involves the use of steam to disinfect waste and is commonly
done in an autoclave. Microwave treatment is essentially a steam disinfection
process since water is added to the waste and disinfection occurs through the
action of moist heat and steam generated by microwave energy. In dry heat
processes, no water or steam is added.  Instead, the waste is heated by
1



Reicii and Rcoinniendaltion oni ai Wehial Pf/Paste Tl lat7wnt TfL hITl0h/o?JQ
conduction, natural or forced convection, and/or thermal radiation using infrared
heaters.
Medium-heat thermal processes take place at temperatures between 350 to
700°F (177°C-3700C) and involve the chemical breakdown of organic material.
These processes are the basis for relatively new technologies. They include
reverse polymerization using high-intensity microwave energy and thermal
depolymerization using heat and high pressure.
High-heat thermal processes generally operate at temperatures ranging from
around 1,0000F to 15,000°F (540°C-8,300°C) or higher. A significant change in
the mass and volume of the waste also occurs. Examples include incineration,
plasma pyrolysis, and induction-heated furnaces.
Chemical processes employ disinfectants such as dissolved chlorine dioxide,
bleach (sodium hypochlorite), peracetic acid, or dry inorganic chemicals. To
enhance exposure of the waste to the chemical agent, chemical processes often
involve shredding, grinding, or mixing. In liquid systems, the waste may go
through a dewatering section to remove and recycle the disinfectant. Besides
chemical disinfectants, there are also encapsulating compounds that can solidify
sharps, blood, or other body fluids within a solid matrix prior to disposal. One
developing technology uses ozone to treat medical waste and others utilize
catalytic oxidation. Another system uses alkali to hydrolyze tissues in heated
stainless steel tanks. Solidification or inertization could be considered types of
chemical processes for treating biomedical waste.
Irradiation-based technologies involve electron beams, Cobalt-60, or UV
irradiation. These technologies require shielding to prevent occupational
exposures. Electron beam irradiation uses a shower of high-energy electrons to
destroy microorganisms in the waste by causing chemical dissociation and
rupture of cell walls. The pathogen destruction efficacy depends on the dose
absorbed by the mass of waste, which in tum is related to waste density and
electron energy. Germicidal ultraviolet radiation (UV-C) has been used as a
supplement to other treatment technologies. Irradiation does not alter the waste
physically and would require a grinder or shredder to render the waste
unrecognizable.
Biological processes employ enzymes to destroy organic matter. Only a few
technologies have been based on biological processes.
Mechanical processes--such as shredding, grinding, hammermill processing,
mixing, agitation, liquid-solid separation, conveying (using augers, rams, or
conveyor belts), and compaction - supplement treatment processes. Mechanical
destruction can render the waste unrecognizable and is used to destroy needles
and syringes so as to minimize injuries or to render them unusable. In the case of
thermal- or chemical-based processes, mechanical devices such as shredders
and mixers can also improve the rate of heat transfer or expose more surfaces to
chemical disinfectants. Mechanical processes can add significantly to the level of
maintenance required. A mechanical process is supplementary and cannot be
considered a treatment process per se.
2



Re1vici atl Raoinnnchitown /n a Aluizl oI"kthd  TreCnnnt TecIuhulo(ov
The approach for selecting and recommending technologies is based on:
a) The appropriateness of the technology for St. Kitts in terms of size
(throughput rate)
b) Level of commercialization
c) Cost of the technology
d) Ability of the technology to meet current international environmental standards
e) Others factors including space, utility and other installation requirements; feed
opening size; reduction of volume and/or mass; occupational safety; noise
and odor; level of automation and ease of use; skills and training required to
operate; reliability and maintenance requirements; availability of technical
support; and vendor background.
The location of the new technology will be discussed with stakeholders and
recommendations will be made at a later time.
SIZE
To determine the appropriate size of a treatment technology, it is necessary to
estimate the amount of medical waste generated at St. Kitts. One can calculate
the following generation rates for St. Kitts alone (assuming the island's population
is 3/4ths of the total population): 12,214 kg/yr of infectious in 2002. Projecting to
the year 2015 gives 12,901 kg/yr of infectious waste. These figures were
obtained based on CBCL data and the factor of 0.4 kg per capita. A second
estimate is provided below.
For purposes of comparison, a higher estimate can be obtained using the upper
range of estimates provided by the World Health Organization (WHO) for a district
hospital (1.8 kg total waste per bed per day; infectious waste including sharps =
16% of total waste) and for an urban health center (0.01 kg per day per patient).
For JNF Hospital, the total beds after the new construction, 150 beds, will be
used. For Pogson and Mary Charles Hospitals, 36 and 10 beds respectively will
be used. For the 11 health centers, the following assumptions will be used based
on information provided by Newtown Health Center: 60 patients per day for
Basseterre, 30 for Newtown, and 20 for all the other health centers. Furthermore,
calculations will be based on 7 days per week operation for the hospitals and 5
days per week operation for the health centers. Using these parameters, one
then computes an upper range of 21,223 kg per year for St. Kitts (about twice the
estimates computed above).
Therefore, estimates of waste generation range from 12,214 to 21,223 kg of
infectious waste per year at St. Kitts. Treatment technologies are generally rated
on a per hour or per day basis. Assuming the treatment technology will be used 5
days a week (261 weekdays per year), the following daily throughput rates are
3



R,oic'i1 and Recommendation ot tI A1fetihal "astL' 7r'abnnenlt Tech'iluokV
required: 47 to 81 kg per day (104-180 lbs/day). Assuming 2 hours of operation
per day, the following hourly throughput rates are required: 24 to 41 kg per hour
(53-90 lbs/hr). Hence, the treatment technology should be sized as close as
possible to this throughput rate.
In terms of volume, the daily rates range from 430 - 740 liters per day (15 - 26
cu. ft per day).
LEVEL OF COMMERCIALIZATION
Some technologies, such autoclaves, have been in operation for decades, while
others, such as plasma pyrolysis, are still in the development or demonstration
stage. For this report, technologies that are well established with a documented
track record will be selected.
COST
A treatment technology costing around $100,000 will be used in the selection
critera.
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
For the purpose of selection, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's
emission limits in the 'Hospital / Medical / Infectious Waste Incinerator Rule" and
the limits in the toxicity characteristic leachate procedure (TCLP) test will be used
as criteria for air emissions and solid residues respectively. These criteria are
relevant to thermal treatment technologies. U.S. Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) Permissible Exposure Limits (PELs) will be used as
criteria for ambient air concentrations in the workplace. Another criteria to be
used will be whether the technology is an approved treatment technology in one
or more of the states of the United States.
Thermal treatment technologies should be able to show that their emissions meet
the EPA limits under the 1997 'Standards of Performance for New Stationary
Sources and Emission Guidelines for Existing Sources: Hospital / Medical /
Infectious Waste Incinerators." Table 1 below shows the emission limits set on
nine criteria pollutants under the rule for new incinerators.
In addition, new incinerators are restricted to a 5% visible emission limit for
fugitive emissions generated during ash handling and a 10% stack opacity limit.
If test results of the solid residue exceed the limits under EPA's toxicity
characteristic leachate procedure (TCLP), the ash must be treated as hazardous
waste. TCLP is a testing procedure wherein an extract from a 100 gram sample
of the ash is tested for 40 toxic substances; if the analysis shows that one of the
substances is present at a concentration higher than that specified in the TCLP,
the ash is considered hazardous waste. This will be used as general criteria
since TCLP results can depend on the composition of waste treated.
4



RLI'W1I azi Rcconintewnd/tui oi a.10/ aA1(11 ,a! ltre T,r-annent Ttchnol(%A
Table 1. Emission Limits for Biomedical Waste Incinerators
Pollutant                          Emission Limits
Small             Medium             Large
Particulate Matter   69 mg/dscm         34 mg/dscm        34 mg/dscm
Carbon Monoxide       40 ppmv            40 ppmv            40 ppmv
Dioxins/Furans    125 ng/dscm total  25 ng/dscm total  25 ng/dscm total
or 2.3 ng/dscm TEQ  or 0.6 ng/dscm TEQ  or 0.6 ng/dscm TEQ
Hydrogen Chloride      15 ppmv            15 ppmv           15 ppmv
or 99% reduction   or 99% reduction  or 99% reduction
Sulfur Dioxide       55 ppmv            55 ppmv           55 ppmv
Nitrogen Oxides      250 ppmv           250 ppmv           250 ppmv
Lead            1.2 mg/dscm       0 07 mg/dscm       0.07 mg/dscm
or 70% reduction   or 98% reduction  or 98% reduction
Cadmium          0.16 mg/dscm       0.04 mg/dscm      0 04 mg/dscm
or 65% reduction   or 90% reduction  or 90% reduction
Mercury          0 55 mg/dscm       0.55 mg/dscm      0.55 mg/dscm
or 85% reduction   or 85% reduction  or 85% reduction
Capacities: small=less than or equal to 200 lbs/hr, medium=greater than 200 lbs/hi to 500 lbs/hr;
large=greater than 500 lbs/hr.
Wastewater discharges should be at a minimum while posing no problems to
sanitary sewers or water treatment facilities.
OTHER FACTORS
Space is usually a premium at health care institutions. The space needed to
operate a technology should fit the available space in the facility. That space is
not only the footprint and height of the equipment but should also consider
additional space needed for opening waste entry doors, access to control panels,
space for moving bins, storage areas, etc.
Some technologies only need an electrical outlet to operate, others require
steam, compressed air, natural gas, drains, ventilation, etc. Not all these utility
services and other infrastructure may available at the selected site. Concrete
pads, access paths, curb cuts, and other site preparations may be needed. The
location may or may not be on ground level.
In addition to proper throughput capacity, the technology should also have a
waste feed entry area that is large enough to be able to introduce infectious waste
bags or containers into the treatment chamber without any problems. Some
technologies have large treatment chamber but are limited by small entry doors.
Volume and/or mass reduction is another important factor especially if facilities
pay by volume or mass for hauling the treated waste and disposing at a landfill. A
high reduction in waste volume can help minimize environmental impact.
Issues of occupational safety and health are important. Consideration should be
given to potential worker exposure to: hot surfaces, ionizing and non-ionizing
radiation, chemicals released in the workspace, sharps that may fall out during
conveying, pathogens from the waste that are aerosolized during shredding,
blood splatter, etc. Ergonomic issues should also be considered.
5



Revicii a(wl   Recoinniendatlon ont ai A'ludlcl PPaste 7i) ,jtfnent Te.mc/ lzoloc?
In the event of an equipment breakdown, the technology should have some way
of protecting workers who may need to access internal parts of the equipment.
Some technologies have a way of injecting chemical disinfectants on untreated
waste and intemal surfaces in these situations. Others have safety interlocks that
prevent workers from opening a treatment chamber door if the treatment cycle
has been interrupted.
An ideal technology is one that is noiseless and odor-free during operation. The
best way to evaluate this is to observe the technology during actual operation at
an installation in another health care facility if possible. Reducing noise and
noxious odors are important aspects of occupational health and community
relations.
A technology should be automated to minimize operator errors while allowing
efficient and easy control of the process, safety interlocks, diagnostics, remote
monitoring, alarms, and automatic documentation to meet record keeping
requirements. Most technologies are also designed for ease of use and minimal
operator time. Usually, the most labor-intensive task is introducing waste into the
equipment. It is also a source of occupational injuries (e.g., back problems,
needle-sticks). Many technologies now include automatic feed assemblies such
as cart lifters or bin dumpers to eliminate handling of red bags by workers.
When selecting a technology, the level of required skills and necessary training of
the operator will be considered. Vendors generally offer operator training when a
new system is installed; the facility may need to arrange for ongoing training and
education.  Operator training should include: a basic understanding of the
systems, standard operating procedures, occupational safety and personal
protection equipment, identifying waste that should not be treated in the
technology, recognizing technical problems, dealing with unusual conditions,
periodic maintenance schedules, emergency procedures, and contingency plans.
Facilities should document operator training and qualification.
Reliability of equipment can be determined from past maintenance records (these
may or may not be available for new technologies). Some vendors offer remote
monitoring and diagnostics capabilities. High maintenance items include major
moving parts such as mixing paddles, shredders, grinders, and feed systems,
and parts that are subjected to high thermal stresses such as refractories.
It is useful to see if vendors are well stocked with spare parts and staffed with
technical people who can respond quickly to queries or provide urgent repair
services. The availability of technical support is important especially for newly
commercialized technologies that may not have a long track record of operation.
It is important how long a technology manufacturer and/or vendor has been in
business, what their financial status is (i.e., are they financially stable), the
backgrounds of key officers of the company, whether or not they have been cited
for environmental or other violations, and any financial or legal liabilities.
6



Revi'li a .nd. Rcco,ninendarion o), a. .'edua l lIl astu TrelCtment 7Technu1ocLi
In this section, 49 treatment technologies will be screened based on the first four
crtera mentioned above. The table below summanzes the results.
Table 2. Treatment Technologies for Medical Waste
Type of Process                   Technology Vendors                 Size      Cost     Corn*      Env*
LOW-HEAT THERMAL
PROCESSES                      _
Autoclave or Retort              Bondtech (Somerset, KY)            N          y         y         y
Autoclave or Retort              Environmental Techtonics Corp      N          N         y         y
(Southampton, PA)                                  I
Autoclave or Retort              Lajtos (France)                     y         N         y         y
Autoclave or Retort              Mark Costello (Carson, CA)         N          y         y         y
Autoclave or Retort              Sierra Industnes (Santa Ana, CA)   N          y         y         y
Autoclave or Retort              StenTech (Bloomington, IN)          y         y         N         y
Autoclave or Retort              Tuttnauer (Ronkonkoma, NY)          y         y         N         y
Vacuum-Steam-Compaction          San-l-Pak (Tracy, CA)              y          y         y         y
Steam-Mixing-                    Tempico (Madisonville, LA)         N          N         y         y
Fragmenting/Drying/ Shredding
Shredding/Steam-Mixing/Drying,   Stenle Technologies Inc (West      N          N         y         y
Chemical                         Chester, PA)
Shredding-Steam-Mixing/Drying    Antaeus Group (Hunt Valley,        y          N         N         y
MD)
Shredding-Steam-Mixing/Drying    Ecolotec (Union Grove, AL)          y         N         N         y
Steam-Mixing-Fragmenting/Drying  Hydroclave Systems Corp             y         y         y         y
(Kingston, Ontano, Can )
Pre-Shredding/Steam-Mixing       Aegis Bio-Systems (Edmond,         N          N         y         y
OK)
Shredding/Steam-Mixing-          LogMed (Erdwich                    N          N         N         Y
Compaction                       ZerkleinerungsSysteme GmbH
Microwave Treatment              Sanitec (West Caldwell, NJ)        N          N         y         y
Microwave Treatment              Sintion/CMB (Austna)                Y         Y         N         Y
Electro-Thermal Deactivation     Stencycle (Lake Forest, IL)                   N               _  __
Dry Heat Treatment               KC MediWaste (Dallas, TX)          N          N         y         y
Dry Heat Treatment               Demolizer                          N          y         y         y
NMEDIUNI-HEAT THERMIAL
PROCESSES
Reverse Polymenzation            Environmental Waste                N          N         N
Intemational (Ajax, Ontano)
Thermal Depolymenzation          Changing World Technologies        N          N         N
(West Hempstead, NY)
HIGH-HEAT THERMAL
PROCESSES
Standard Incineration                                                y         N         y         **
Pyrolysis-Oxidation              Oxidation Technologies             N          N         y         y
(Annapolis, MD)
Plasma Pyrolysis                 DayStar/Prometron (Tokyo,          N          N         N9
Japan)
Plasma Pyrolysis                 Electro-Pyrolysis, Inc (Wayne,      N         N         N         ?
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  PA )
Plasma Pyrolysis                 HI Disposal Systems                N          N         N         ?
7



ReL'eii aindl RecommL'nldaftion on 1i aILA(l . al R'astt- T  tl(lnnenl Tec1hiuolocD
(Indianapolis, IN)
Plasma Pyrolysis                 Integrated Environmental Systems    N          N         N         y
(Richland, WA)
Plasma Pyrolysis                 MSE Technology Applications         N          N         N?
(Butte, MT)
Plasma Pyrolysis                 Plasma Pyrolysis Systems            N          N         N
(Stuyvesant Falls, NY)
Plasma Pyrolysis                 Startech Environmental Corp         N          N         N
(Wilton, CT)
Plasma Pyrolysis                 Unitel Technologies (Mt.            N          N         N
Prospect, IL)
Plasma Pyrolysis                 Vance IDS/Bio Arc (Largo, FL)       N          N         N         9
Plasma Pyrolysis                 Vanguard Research Inc (Lorton,      N         N          N?
VA)
Induction-Based Pyrolysis        Vanish Technologies/LFR             N         N          N
(Rantan, NJ)
Laser-Based Pyrolysis            Anara Group (Las Vegas, NV)         N         N          N?
Superheated Steam Reforming       Duratek (Columbia, MD)             y          N         N         y
Advanced Thermal Oxidation       NCE Corporation (Carrollton,        N          N         N
TX)
CHEMICAL PROCESSES
Sodium Hypochlonte-Hammenmill    Circle Medical Products             N          N         y         y
(Indianapolis, IN)
Sodium Hypochlonte-Shredding      MedWaste Technologies Corp.        N                    y         y
(mobile)                          (Houston, TX)
Chlonne Dioxide-                  Encore/Medical Compliance (El      N          N         y         y
Shredding/Gnnding                 Paso, TX)
Ozonation                         Lynntech (College Station, TX)     y                    N         y
Electrocatalytic Wet Oxidation    MeDETOX/Delphi Research            N                    N         y
(Albuquerque, NM)
"Stencid"-Shredding-Mixing        MCM Environmental                  y          ?         N         y
Technologies (Gilboa, Israel)
Dry Inorganic Chemical-Shredding  Positive Impact Waste Solutions    N                    N         y
(Pearland, TX)
Dry Inorganic Chemical-Shredding  Premier Medical Technology         N                    N         y
(Houston, TX)
Peracetic Acid-Gnnding            Ecocycle 1O/STERIS Corp            y          y         N         y
(Mentor, OH)
Alkaline Hydrolysis               WR` (Indianapolis, IN)             y          N         y         y
IRRADIATION PROCESSES
Electron Beam                     BioStenle Technology (Fort         N         N          N         y
Wayne, IN)
Electron Beam-Shredding           U Miami E-Beam (Coral Gables,      N         N          N         y
FL)
BIOLOGICAL PROCESSES
Enzyme-Based                     Bio Conversion Technologies,        N         N         N
Treatment/Extrusion              Inc (Norcross, GA)            I
Legend Com = Level of Commercialization, Env = Environmental Standards, y = meets basic cntena, N = does not meet
cntena, ? = no data available, technology has not been tested, or technology is still in development stage and cost figures are not
yet established' ** = see discussion in the next section
A screening of available technologies using the first four criteria results in the
following potential options: San=4-pak and KfydrocDave.
8



RciI(wit azndl Rc( ommlcnldemol n l oa n aAl IC(eol 11 i.'tc 'Fircrinent TL'chnnlokX
S  *  *  g kg ~~* Di-1G IA *04
In this section, autoclaving and incineration are compared.
ADVANCED AUTOCLAVES
An autoclave consists of a metal chamber sealed by a charging door and
surrounded by a steam jacket. Steam is introduced into both the outside jacket
and the inside chamber which is designed to withstand elevated pressures.
Because air is an effective insulator, the removal of air from the chamber is
essential to ensure penetration of heat into the waste. This is done in two general
ways: gravity displacement or pre-vacuuming. In a gravity-displacement (or
downward-displacement) autoclave, steam is introduced under pressure into the
chamber forcing the air downward into an outlet port or drain line in the lower part
of the chamber. A more effective method is the use of a vacuum pump to
evacuate air before introducing steam, as is done in pre-vacuum autoclaves.
Pre-vacuum (or high-vacuum) autoclaves need less time for disinfection due to
their greater efficiency in taking out air. A retort is essentially an autoclave except
that a retort has no steam jacket.
Autoclaves and retorts require a minimum exposure time and temperature to
achieve proper disinfection. Time-temperature recommendations for various
conditions are found in a number of references (See for example: J.L. Lauer, D.R.
Battles, and D. Vesley, "Decontaminating infectious laboratory waste by
autoclaving," Appl. Envron. Microbiol. 44 (3), 690-694, September 1982, W.A.
Rutala, M.M. Stiegeland, and F.A. Sarubbi, Jr., "Decontamination of laboratory
microbiological waste by steam sterilization," Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 43, 1311-
1316, June 1982; E. Hanel, Jr., "Chemical Disinfection" in Control of Blohazards
in the Research Laboratory, Course Manual, School of Hygiene and Public
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, 1981; Herman Koren,
Environmental Health and Safety, Pergamon Press, NY, 1974). As shown in the
table below, the recommended exposure times are based on twice the minimum
time required to achieve a 6 logl0 kill of bacterial spores under ideal conditions;
equivalent exposure times at different temperatures can be estimated.  A
common exposure temperature-time criterion is 121°C (250°F) for 30 minutes.
Table 3. Exposure Time-Temperature Criteria for Disinfection
Temperature           Spore Kill      Minimum
Time          Exposure
Time
Degrees F    Degrees C       Minutes        Minutes
240          116            30              60
245          118            18              36
250          121            12              24
257          125             8              16
270          132             2              4
280          138             1              2
9



Revl I"I(, and1f Rcolnnwndatlon on ti A'ludlLal Kast.' TLrannLent TL'chInloa.j
Color-changing chemical indicators or biological monitors (e.g., B.
stearothernophilus or B. subtilis spore strips) placed at the center of test loads
should be used to verify that sufficient steam penetration and exposure time have
occurred.
Steam treatment is a proven technology with a long and successful track record.
The technology is easily understood and readily accepted by hospital staff and
communities. Autoclaves are an approved or accepted medical waste treatment
technology in all states of the United States. If proper precautions are taken to
exclude hazardous materials, the emissions from autoclaves and retorts are
minimal. Capital costs are relatively low compared to other technologies.
In the last few decades, a second generation of steam-based systems have been
developed for the purpose of improving the transfer of heat into the waste,
achieving more uniform heating of the waste, rendering the waste
unrecognizable, and/or making the treatment system easier to use. These new
systems have sometimes been referred to as advanced autoclaves. These
systems basically function as autoclaves or retorts but they combine steam
treatment with pre-vacuuming and various kinds of mechanical processing
before, during, and/or after steam disinfection.
San-D-Pak is one of the more established technologies among the advanced
autoclaves. Since 1978, they have installed some 700 units in the United States
and in about a dozen countries around the world. The technology basically
integrates high vacuum/autoclave with compaction and uses articulating
chambers to facilitate the introduction and removal of waste.
In the San-l-Pak systems, the autoclave cycle begins with a high vacuum to
remove air, followed by exposure to 307°F (153°C) steam. The chamber is
allowed to reach temperatures of 281-284°F (138-140C) or about 38 psig. After
treatment, the steam vents down through a diffuser to condense the steam and
the waste is automatically conveyed to a cart or compaction chamber.
In the mid-1990s, San-l-Pak developed a new line of articulating chambers, a
modular design wherein each chamber has three basic positions. In the load
position, the chamber is tilted with the door facing up making it easier for the
operator to insert an optional autoclavable liner and load the waste. The load tilt
position also prevents waste from falling out during loading. The chamber is then
rotated to a horizontal position to start the treatment cycle: air is evacuated using
a vacuum and 307°F (1530C) steam is introduced (evacuated air is mixed with
steam to destroy pathogens and then reintroduced into the chamber). The waste
is exposed to steam for 30 minutes from the time the chamber temperature
reaches 270°F (1320C) and a maximum of 284°F (140°C). After treatment, the
steam vents down through a diffuser. The operator opens the door and initiates
the dump cycle in which the chamber rotates down allowing the waste to drop
into a waste bin or compactor. Units have digital displays and strip printers for
documentation.
San-l-Pak offers a wide range of integrated custom designs based on dozens of
models. Multiple units can be lined up along a common load platform and waste
can be loaded from ground or dock level. Moreover, San-l-Pak offers cart
10



Rewtic'l alnll Rc eonni'endation (i a Al dical l '1O(tL 7 cannen't 7Techno1lo(r
dumpers, conveyors, single- and two-stage shredders, compactors with 4-to-1
and 6-to-1 compaction ratios, bailers, and auto-weighing systems. The modular
design makes it easy to add units later to increase throughput capacities.
The Hydroclave is basically a double-walled (acketed) cylindrical vessel with
mixing/fragmenting paddles inside. The waste is loaded through the loading door
on top of the vessel. After the door is closed, high temperature steam enters the
outside jacket to heat up the waste via the hot inner surface. During this time, a
shaft and paddles rotate inside to fragment and tumble the waste. The moisture
in the waste tums to steam and pressurizes the inner vessel; however, if there is
not enough moisture, a small amount of steam is added until the desired pressure
is met.
In the Hydroclave, the temperature is maintained at 270°F (1 320C) for 15 minutes
(or 250°F [1210C] for 30 minutes) while the mixing paddles continue to rotate.
After treatment, the steam is vented through a condenser while maintaining heat
input, causing the waste to dry. The steam to the jacket is shut off, the discharge
door is opened, and the shaft and paddles reverse rotation to scoop the waste out
through the loading door onto a conveyor or waste container. A strip chart
recorder documents the process parameters.
INCINERATORS
Incineration is a high-temperature oxidation process wherein waste is burned
to produce combustion product gases, ash, and incombustible residues. A
typical incinerator has a waste loading system, refractory-lined primary
chamber (hearth or furnace) and a secondary chamber, ash removal system,
and flue gas stack. Incinerators also have air pollution control devices and
controls.
In the past, single-chamber hearths with stationary grates were used to burn
medical waste. However, since these incinerators could not reach high
temperatures and their emissions did not meet environmental standards,
these oven-type incinerators (such as the ones used in St. Kitts and Nevis)
have not been in use in the United States and other developed countries for
decades.
In the last three decades, there have been three basic incinerator designs
used for medical waste: (1) controlled air incinerators, also called starved air,
two-stage, or modular incinerators; (2) multiple-chamber incinerators, also
called retort, pyrolitic, or excess air incinerators; and (3) rotary kiln
incinerators.  Controlled air incineration, the most common design used in
the last 25 years, uses a primary chamber with less than the full amount of
oxygen needed for complete combustion. Moisture and volatile fractions are
vaporized while carbonaceous materials are burned to ash and incombustible
fractions accumulate in the residue. A secondary chamber is where volatile
gases are combusted under turbulent and excess air conditions. In multiple-
chamber incinerators, both primary and secondary chambers are usually
operated with excess air. The two basic designs are retort and in-line units.
A rotary kiln incinerator also consists of a primary and secondary chamber
11



Re1vic1ii and Rccotnenudantlon on a. ILfu'lhaol V.lxl.f Il1sltrelamln Teclhnolog
but its primary chamber is a cylindrical, rotating kiln slightly inclined so waste
material moves towards the discharge end as the kiln rotates.
Ash accumulates in the primary chamber, falls through grates into a pit below
the chamber, or is pushed by transfer rams towards an ash container,
discharge chute, or water pit at the end of the hearth. During combustion,
hydrocarbons in the waste are converted to carbon dioxide and water. Also
emitted are NOx, SOx, flyash (ash that is carried in the flue gas), and
products of incomplete combustion such as carbon monoxide and soot (found
in particulate matter). Hydrogen chloride gas (HCI), polychlorinated dibenzo-
p-dioxins, and polychlorinated dibenzofurans are formed due to chlorine in
the waste. Trace metals are also released as metal vapors or deposited in
fine particles entrained in the exhaust stream; they may play a role in
catalyzing the formation of dioxins and furans on fly ash.
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Autoclaves: Odors can be a problem around autoclaves if there is insufficient
ventilation. If waste streams are not properly segregated to prevent hazardous
chemicals from being fed into the treatment chamber, toxic contaminants will be
released into the air, condensate, or in the treated waste. This is the case when
waste loads contaminated with chemotherapeutic waste or heavy metals such as
mercury are put in the autoclave. Thus, poorly segregated waste may emit low
levels of alcohols, phenols, aldehydes, and other organic compounds in the air.
Decontaminated waste from an autoclave retains much of its physical
appearance. Some plastics such as low density polyethylene soften at autoclave
temperatures in a San-l-Pak and cause the resulting treated waste to form an
amorphous mass but with recognizable waste. The Hydroclave breaks the waste
inside the treatment chamber and results in a somewhat unrecognizable mass.
In general, as long as organic compounds and leachable inorganic material
containing arsenic, barium, cadmium chromium, lead, mercury, silver or other
inorganic chemicals are kept out of the waste, the treated waste residue should
pass the TCLP test.
Incinerators: Environmental emissions are the most serious problem facing
incinerators. It is the reason why the number of hospital incinerators in the United
States has dropped dramatically in the last decade. In 1988, US EPA estimated
that there were 6,200 medical waste incinerators in the United States. In 2002,
only 767 medical waste incinerators will be in operation and many of those are
large commercial facilities using expensive pollution control devices to meet
EPA's emission standards. Only four new medical waste incinerators have been
constructed in the United States since June 1996 and one of the four had to be
shut down recently.
A medical waste incinerator releases into the air a wide variety of pollutants
including highly toxic dioxins and furans, metals (such as lead, mercury, and
cadmium), particulate matter, acid gases (hydrogen chloride and sulfur dioxide),
carbon monoxide, and nitrogen oxides. These emissions have serious adverse
consequences on worker safety, public health and the environment. Dioxins, for
12



RL'v1ic'  an .Z/XRcLoiiinncwndauotnoi7 on  Ic  aludica/ Ifcast.c Treatmntn 7TechnolouI
example, have been linked to cancer, immune system disorders, diabetes, birth
defects, and other health effects. Mercury is associated with nervous system
disorders particularly affecting developing fetuses and small children. Medical
waste incinerators are a leading source of dioxins and mercury in the
environment.
Incinerator ash remaining at the bottom of an incinerator after burndown often
contains heavy metals that may leach out. Dioxins and furans may also be found
in the bottom ash. As noted earlier, if test results of the ash exceed the limits
under EPA's TCLP, the ash must be treated as hazardous waste. Because of
high levels of leachable contaminants found in incinerator ash, some regulatory
authorities have simply designated incinerator ash as hazardous waste.
Fly ash (ash that is carried by the air and exhaust gases up the incinerator stack)
contains heavy metals, dioxins, furans, and other toxic chemicals that condense
on the surface of the ash. Even when the fly ash is removed from the exhaust
stream by pollution control devices such as baghouse filters, the toxic materials
remain concentrated on the filter cake and should be treated as hazardous waste.
To meet the 1997 EPA emission limits, medical waste incinerators will need air
pollution control devices such as high efficiency wet or dry scrubbers and
baghouse filters with or without activated carbon. In older incinerators, secondary
chambers may have to be retrofitted to insure at least a two-second retention
time. Periodic stack tests must be performed to show compliance with the rules,
and facilities must continuously monitor operating parameters such as secondary
chamber temperature. The EPA regulations also require operator training and
qualification, inspection, waste management plans, reporting, and record-
keeping.
PUBLIC HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY ISSUES
Autoclaves: If waste streams are not properly segregated to prevent hazardous
chemicals from being fed into the treatment chamber, toxic contaminants will be
released into the air, condensate, or in the treated waste. This is the case when
waste loads contaminated with antineoplastic drugs or heavy metals such as
mercury are put in the autoclave. Thus, poorly segregated waste may emit low
levels of alcohols, phenols, aldehydes, and other organic compounds in the air.
A study of one autoclave facility by the U.S.-based National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health found no volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in a
worker's personal air space and work area that exceeded permissible exposure
limits set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (K. Owen, K.
Leese, L. Hodson, R. Uhorchak, D. Greenwood, D. VanOsdell, and E. Cole,
"Control of Aerosol (Biological and Nonbiological) and Chemical Exposures and
Safety Hazards in Medical Waste Treatment Facilities," National Institute of
Occupational Safety and Health, Cincinnati, OH, November 1997). The highest
VOC level in the autoclave facility was 2-propanol, measured at 643 mg/m3,
which is about three orders of magnitude lower than the permissible exposure
limit of 400,000 mg/m3. The data show that, compared to incinerators, autoclaves
have far lower emissions of pollutants with less adverse impacts on human
health.
13



Rei'ic''10 4'nd Ra' onlfenl da'i1(1lonl oil a Al'It'th(1l I4aiste 7i etnntlLt Tetuchzo,(lo
Incinerators: In contract to autoclaves, many studies have been done on the
emissions from incinerators showing adverse impact on human health. This
section, while not intended to be an in-depth and comprehensive review, briefly
summarizes a number of epidemiological studies showing serious health effects
among waste incineration workers and community residents living near
incinerators.
Epidemiological studies have shown significant associations between exposure to
incinerator emissions and lung cancer, laryngeal cancer, ischemic heart disease,
urinary mutagens and promutagens, as well as elevated blood levels of various
toxic organic compounds and heavy metals. A summary of epidemiological
studies from 1988-1998, presented in chronological order, is given in Table 4.
PATHOGEN DESTRUCTION ISSUES
Autoclaves: With respect to pathogen inactivation, all states in the United States
accept or approve the use of autoclaves for medical waste treatment. Several
studies appear in the literature on the effectiveness of steam autoclave treatment
of biomedical waste. They include the following:
Rutala et al. (Rutala WA, Stiegland MM, and Sarubbi FA Jr. Decontamination of
laboratory microbiological waste by steam sterilization. Appl Environmental
Microbiology, 43:1311-1316. June 1982) reported on operating parameters for
sterilization of microbiological waste. Standardized test loads of contaminated
petri dishes and a biological indicator containing spores of Bacillus
stearothermophilus were packaged and placed in a gravity displacement
autoclave. The biological monitoring ampoules used were Kilit (BBL Microbiology
Systems, Cockeysville, Md.) standardized so that spores survive when
autoclaved for five minutes at 1210C and spores are killed when autoclaved for 15
minutes at 1210C. Waste loads of five, 10, and 15 pounds of contaminated 100
mm petri plates and biological monitoring ampoules were placed in commercially
available plastic autoclave bags constructed of 1.5 mil polyethylene. Bags were
tested in two modes: 1) in the open position, with the sides of the bag folded
down to expose the top layer of petri plates, and 2) with the opening In the bag
loosely constricted with a twist-tie and four holes punched in the top of the bag.
Water (500 ml) was added to some of the closed bags that were placed either in
a shallow stainless steel tray or a shallow polypropylene container. The
containers were placed in the steam autoclave and treated for periods of 15, 30,
45, or 90 minutes. The load temperature was monitored by thermocouple at five-
minute intervals during the test. At the conclusion of the test cycle the biological
indicators were removed and incubated at 560C for seven days. Sterile swabs
were dipped into the molten agar and swabbed onto blood agar plates which
were incubated aerobically at 350C for 48 hours before growth evaluation. In 10
percent of the experiments, plates were also incubated anaerobically at 350C for
96 hours.
14



Rri'ut, izidI/ R (on7Inindion f on a Aluod(al f+1"Ist 71 catinL'nt Tiechnol1oe
Table 4. Summary of Epidemiological Studies on Adverse Health Effects Associated
with Incineration
STUDY SUBJECTS            CONCLUSIONS REGARDING                   REFERENCE
ADVERSE HEALTH EFFECTS
Residents from 7 to 64    Levels of mercury in hair mcreased with  P. Kurttio et al., Arch Environ.
years old livmg within 5 km  closer proximity to the incinerator dunng a 10  Health, 48, 243-245 (1998)
of an incinerator and the  year penod
mcinerator workers
Residents lving withim 10  Sigmficant increase mi laryngeal cancer In  P. Michelozzi et al., Occup
km of an mcmerator,       men living with closer proximity to the  Environ. Med, 55, 611-615
refinery, and waste disposal  incinerator and other pollution sources  (1998)
site
532 males working at two  Significantly higher gastric cancer mortality  E. Rapiti et al., Am. J Ind
mcinerators from 1962-                                            Medicine, 31, 659-661 (1997)
1992
Residents living around an  Significant increase in lung cancer related  A. Biggen et al. Environ Health
uincmerator and other     specifically to the incinerator         Perspect, 104, 750-754 (1996)
pollution sources
People livmg withim 7.5 km  Risks of all cancers and specifically of  P Elliott et al., Br J Cancer,
of 72 mcinerators         stomach, colorectal, liver, and lung cancer  73, 702-710 (1996)
increased with closer proximruty to
incmerators
10 workers at an old      Significantly higher blood levels of dioxms  A. Schecter et al , Occup
incmerator, 11 workers at a  and furans among workers at the old  Environ Medicine, 52, 385-387
new incinerator           mcinerator                              (1995)
122 workers at an mdustnal  Higher levels of toluene, lead and cadmium in  R. Wrbitzky et al., Int Arcli
incmerator               the blood, and hlgher levels of          Occup Environ Health, 68, 13-
tetrachlorophenols and arsenic in urne   21 (1995)
among incmerator workers
53 incnerator workers     Significantly higher blood and urine levels of  J Angerer et al., Int Arch
hexachlorobenzene, 2,4/2,5-dichlorophenols,  Occup Environ Health, 64,
2,4,5-trichlorophenols, and hydroxypyrene  266-273 (1992)
37 xvorkers at four       Significantly higher prevalence of urnary  X F. Ma et al., J Toxicol
incinerator facilities    mutagen/promutagen levels               Environ Health, 37, 483-494
(1992)
56 workers at three       Significantly higher levels of lead and  R. Malkin et al., Environz Res,
incmerators               erythrocyte protoporphyrn In the blood  59, 265-270 (1992)
86 incinerator workers    High prevalence of hypertension and related  E.A Bresnitz et al, Am J Iid
protemuna                                Medicine, 22, 363-378 (1992)
104 workers at seven      Sigmficantly higher prevalence of unnary  J.M. Scarlett et al., J Toxicol
incinerator facilities    mutagen and promutagen levels            Environ Health, 31, 11-27
(1990)
176 incmerator workers    Excessive deaths from lung cancer and   P. Gustavsson, Amn J Iid
employed for more than a  ischemic heart disease among workers    Medicine, 15, 129-137 (1989)
year from 1920-1985       employed for at least I year, significant
mcrease in deaths from ischemic heart disease
among workers employed for more than 30
years or followed up for more than 40 years
Residents exposed to an   Reproductive effect. frequency of twinnmig  O.L. Lloyd et al., Br J Ind
incinerator              increased in areas at most nsk from      Medicine, 45, 556-560 (1988)
incinerator emussions
15



Revc"'ic t'h a   R o omlmenda1tion oil a AiCeh1 at aAl.: tl ' r,`(aturatineld  iech lo)l(j
The study showed that the most Important factor with regard to treatment
effectiveness were the types of containers holding the waste. The stainless steel
container enhanced heat transfer and the open bag allowed better steam
penetration than the constricted bag. The addition of 500-ml water to the closed
bag did not improve the heat up time in either container significantly. As expected,
the smallest loads (five pounds) heated up faster than the larger loads. No
significant difference was found in results between the 10 and 15 pound loads.
The data for the 10 and 15 pound loads indicated that 90 minutes in the stainless
steel container were required to inactivate the biological indicator spores. The
biological indicators were viable at all test conditions in the polypropylene
container. All spore-forming and vegetative bacteria in the test loads (with or
without water) demonstrated no growth after 45 minutes in stainless steel
containers and after 60 minutes in polypropylene containers (without water). The
test results demonstrated that for 10 to 15 pounds of waste placed in the
autoclave the only conditions which insured complete kill of B. stearothermophilus
and thus sterility of the load, were the use of a stainless steel container for
treatment duration of 90 minutes.
Lauer et al. (Lauer JL, Battles DR and Vesley D. Decontaminating infectious
laboratory waste by autoclaving. Appl Environmental Microbiology, 44(3):690-
694. September 1982) evaluated the addition of water to improve the treatment of
biomedical waste loads in a gravity displacement steam autoclave. Test waste
loads of 1,750 or 3,500 grams of petri dishes containing agar were placed in a
polypropylene autoclavable waste bag with or without the addition of water. The
specific amounts of water added to the waste loads were either 100 or 1,000 ml.
Biological indicators (Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Inc. Attest No. 1242,
B. stearotherrmophilus in a steam penetrable package simulating a linen pack)
and chemical Indicators (Biomedical Sciences, Inc., Thermalog S) were also
added to the waste loads. The autoclave bag containing the waste load was in
turn placed in either a stainless steel or polypropylene container. The waste loads
were processed for 50 minutes in the autoclave at 1210C.
This evaluation demonstrated that a processing time of 50 minutes was adequate
for killing all biological indicator spores and converting the chemical indicator strip
in the autoclave bag containing 1,000 ml of water that was placed in the stainless
steel container. All other test conditions were inadequate to kill all spores.
Glick et al. (1961) evaluated steam autoclaving for the decontamination of nesting
type animal cages, animal carcasses, and laboratory equipment. A series of
experiments were conducted on six stacked cages standing vertically or lying on
their sides. Biological indicator organisms dried on filter paper discs (Bacillus
subtilis var.- niger, 1 x 164 spores/disc) were placed in the litter of the used
cages. Thermocouples were also placed in the litter to record the temperature in
the waste load during the treatment cycle. The results of the first experiment
showed that when the cages were stacked vertically and autoclaved at 15 psi,
2500F, indicator organisms remained viable after four hours. When the cages
were placed in a horizontal orientation and autoclaved at 20 psi, 2600F, a
treatment cycle of 30 minutes was sufficient to kill all indicator organisms.
16



Rown san  RC ( nn7 01danoi7 o)l a  'h11( (1  I"n/h' 1I a 'tItmeLn/1t Techml oi,,
The second experiment tested the ability of autoclave treatment to treat animal
carcasses. Twenty guinea pig carcasses were placed in a five-gallon fiberboard
container. A "Diack" sterilizer temperature indicator was inserted in the abdomen
of the animal in the center of the load. The load was treated in the autoclave at
250°F for time periods from one to 16 hours. It took over eight hours for the center
of the load to reach the desired temperature and the controls melted before 16
hours of treatment was completed. These results indicate that the autoclave is not
appropriate for the decontamination of animal carcasses.
The third experiment tested the steam autoclave for the treatment of metal
equipment or equipment parts. The equipment parts were contaminated with a
liquid spore suspension (B. subtilis var. niger, 1 x 109 spores/ml) and then
autoclaved both reassembled and disassembled. A treatment cycle of four hours
at 250°F was required to kill the indicator organisms on the reassembled
equipment. One hour of treatment was sufficient to kill the indicator spores on the
disassembled equipment parts.
Cole et al. (E.C. Cole and K. Leese, "Evaluation of Medical Waste Treatment
Technologies: Final Report," prepared for the Office of Solid Waste, U.S. EPA,
RTI Report number 5400-005/01 F, Research Triangle Institute, Research
Triangle Park, NC, January 1993) evaluated laboratory as well as larger
autoclaves to determine their efficacy. The results of laboratory and field tests
showed steam autoclaving to be effective in treating biomedical waste.
Laboratory data showed that high level challenges (with blood serum) of various
organisms in surrogate waste loads were readily inactivated by relatively low
temperature (1040C), short-term (5 min) exposure to the steam autoclaving
process regardless of direct steam contact. Additionally, both laboratory and field
data showed that high concentrations of bacterial spores were readily inactivated
at a setting of 1210C by exposure to the combined effects of steam, heat, and
pressure.
The San-l-Pak system was one of the technologies evaluated by the U.S. EPA in
1993 as background material for a report to Congress on medical waste
management. In that study (E.C. Cole and K. Leese, loc. cit.), all levels of B.
stearothermophilus (up to 106) and B. subtilis (up to 108), both steam and non-
steam exposed spore containers, were inactivated in every treatment cycle
tested.
Incinerators: Because of the relatively high temperatures achieved in an
incinerator chamber, it has long been assumed that incinerators destroy all
pathogens. Limited studies have confirmed that pathogens are not released
in the stack under good operating conditions.
However, research has also shown that pathogens could be released in the
stack and/or ash residue if incinerators are not operated under good
combustion conditions. The destruction of test spores takes place when the
waste is exposed to a minimum of 1,400 OF in the primary chamber and 1,600
OF in the secondary chamber with a 1.2-second residence time (M. Barbeito
and M. Shapiro, "Microbiological Safety Evaluation of a Solid and Liquid
Pathological Incinerator," Journal of Medical Primatology, 6:264-273, 1977).
17



Rewii aiul  Rao onWldllCfl(1ti017 oln a AI A   al PI ,I ate Tr .cainei 7i ( Techinloc
Below these conditions, test spores have been found to survive. Thus, some
states have required a minimum temperature of 1,800 OF in the secondary
chamber and a minimum 2-second residence time as a safety factor to
assume total destruction of all pathogens.
During poor operating conditions, pathogens have been shown to survive the
municipal waste incineration process in the ash residue (S. Klafka and M.
Tierney, "Pathogen Survival at Hospital/infectious Waste Incinerators,"
Proceedings: National Workshops on Hospital Waste Incineration and
Hospital Sterilization, EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, EPA-
450/4-89-002, January 1989). Another US EPA report warned that if proper
operating conditions are not met, incinerators could release pathogens
through discharge air and residues (Hospital Medical Waste Incinerator
Operation and Maintenance, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of
Air Quality Planning and Standards, March 1989).
COST ISSUES
Of all the non-incineration treatment technologies, autoclaves and advanced
autoclaves have the lowest capital cost and among the lowest operating
costs. The San-l-Pak 230-3P advanced autoclave, which has a capacity from
87 to 106 lbs/hr, costs about $70,000.
In a review of data from medical waste incinerator vendors, the average
capital cost of small, batch-fed incinerators with no automatic feeding, no
automatic ash removal, and no combustion control systems was found to be
in the range of $150,000 (W.R. Seeker, "Medical Waste Incineration," in
Environmental Management in Healthcare Facilities, edited by K.D. Wagner
et al., W.B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia, 1998). Installation costs were
typically from 15 to 25% of base equipment cost for factory-assembled and
skid-mounted incinerators, higher for incinerators with more complex
installation requirements.
In 1995 and 1996, the US EPA conducted studies on what it would cost to
add air pollution control devices to medical waste incinerators to be able to
meet the EPA's emission limits. (These studies are presented in various
reports in Air Docket No. A-91-61, Air and Radiation Docket and Information
Center, US EPA, Washington, DC.)
Using the EPA's equations, one obtains the following estimated costs (in
1995 dollars, unadjusted for inflation) for a pollution control device (wet
scrubber capable of achieving 69 mg/dscm) for a small 50-lb/hr biomedical
waste incinerator without a heat recovery boiler:
Capital cost for wet scrubber = $194, 500
Annual costs for wet scrubber = $48,700 per year
Using the EPA's equations, one also obtains the following estimated costs (in
1995 dollars, unadjusted for inflation) for monitoring equipment, stack testing,
and operator training based on estimated costs to upgrade existing
incinerators:
18



R,] ,-w,i z1 RI I nn iundttil lOstc (IAu  u s/I  UitL' Ti c'tinlaTI c 7 hnolo,,u gi
Capital cost for additional equipment for parametric monitoring,
periodic stack testing, and operating training = $16,600
Annual operating cost for the air pollution control device, parametric
monitoring, stack testing, and training = $60,446 per year
The table below tabulates these and other costs for comparing incineration
and autoclaving. The cost of a small incinerator with a pollution control
device and equipment for monitoring and testing costs almost four times that
of an advanced autoclave. This explains why incineration was eliminated
from the screening matrix above.
Table 5. Capital Cost Comparisons
Cost Item                             Incinerator*         Autoclave*
Base equipment cost                       150,000               70,000
Installation cost                         22,500                 6,500
Cost of pollution control technology      194,500                    0
to meet EPA emission limits for a
50 lb/hr incinerator
Cost of electric steam generator               0                16,000
Cost for monitoring and testing            16,600     Monitoring - 2,000
Testing - 400
TOTAL                                 $383,600              $93,100
*  Incinerator costs based on medical waste incinerabon review by Seeker (q v.) and EPA studies (q v.)
Autoclave costs based on informaton from San-l-Pak.
19



Rei1 c nd Rc(o m)mlenida>ion (fli a *Vh:llica,l 11'aiste Treatmennt Techntlohir
The table below summarizes the comparison between incineration and advanced
autoclaving.
Table 6. Overall Comparisons
Parameter            State-of-the-art Incinerator      Advanced Autoclave
Capacity             Appropnate size                   Appropriate size
Level of             Fully commercialized              Fully commercialized
Commercializabon
Range of Wastes      All types of waste treated except  No chemotherapeubc, phammaceubcal,
Treated              radioactve waste (chemotherapy,   radioactive, or chemical waste; higher
pharmaceutical and chemical waste  temperatures or longer times may be
require a special incinerator)    needed for pathological waste or animal
carcasses
Level of Pathogen    Stenlizabon if operated properly   High level disinfecton if operated
Destructon                                              properly
Environmental        Significant air emissions; requires  Minimal air emissions; does not require
Emissions            costly pollubon control device    pollution control device
Treated Waste        Unrecognizable ash; may contain    Recognizable biomedical waste; sharp
Residue              leachable metals and organics      needles may need to be destroyed
including dioxin
Reduction of Volume  About 90-95% reducton in volume and  No mass reduction -may increase weight
or Mass              mass                               due to steam condensabon; minimal
volume reducton - needs shredder or
compactor to reduce volume
Occupational Safety  Significant concems over occupabonal  Possible low levels of volatile organic
and Health Impacts   and public health impacts; potential  compounds; minimal health impacts,
exposure to fire and hot surfaces  potenbal exposure to steam and hot
surfaces
Space Requirements   Larger footprint with pollution control  More compact:
device; stack height              33 sq ft footprint
8 5 ft height requirement
Main Utilities       Natural gas or diesel for bumers,  Steam (may be produced using electnc
Water for scrubber                or natural gas boiler)
Installation         Concrete pad, anchoring, electncal,  Concrete pad, anchoring, electrical,
Requirements         natural gas or diesel, water supply,  steam or water supply, drain
drain
Feed Opening Size    Adequate                          Adequate
Noise                Low                               Low
Odor                 Minimal                           Significant odors if in an enclosed space
with little ventilabon
Automation, Ease of  Highly automated, easy to use      Highly automated, easy to use
Use
Skills Required      Requires training in principles of  Requires training in principles of steam
combuston, controls, operabng     sterilization, types of waste treated,
procedures, waste handling, periodic  controls, operating procedures, waste
maintenance, contingencies, common  handling, periodic maintenance,
problems                          contngencies, validation testing
20



ReLicit and Rc oifl(lOldanon1n ai He(1hca/l Pl'sat: TI; atnlent T.chIi,olog
Major Maintenance  Replacement of refractores is major  Replacement of large gasket is major
maintenance item; significant cost  maintenance item; minimal cost
Reliability       Fairly reliable               Fairiy reliable
Availability of   Good availability             Good availability
Technical Support
Cost              Higher capital and operabng costs  Lower capital and operabng costs
In December 2000, international negotiations were completed on a global, legally
binding convention to reduce and eliminate the release of persistent organic
pollutants (POPs) to the environment. The final version of the text of the
"Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants" was adopted by the
Conference of Plenipotentiaries meeting in Stockholm last May 2001. It is now in
the process of being ratified by different countries.
Annex C of the Stockholm Convention deals with the unintended production of
POPs. First in the list of three groups of POP chemicals are dioxins and furans.
Once the Stockholm Convention becomes intemational law - something that is
expected in the next several years - countries will be required to develop and
implement an action plan within two years to address the release of dioxins and
furans, promote measures to reduce their levels of release, promote the use of
substitutes to prevent formation and release, and promote best available
techniques and environmental practices.
The Convention specifically targets medical waste incinerators among processes
that have "the potential for comparatively high formation and release of these
chemicals to the environment."
Under the reduction measures proposed in the Convention, medical incinerator
operators might be required to use improved methods for flue-gas cleaning, treat
residuals to detoxify them, change processes, or modify designs to improve
combustion and prevent formation of POPs. A high priority will be given to the use
of alternative processes. While it is yet unclear what specific effect the Stockholm
Convention will have on medical waste incineration, Article 5 of the Convention
makes it clear that some measures will have to be taken to further reduce
releases of dioxins and furans from medical waste incinerators with the goal of
their "ultimate elimination."
Incinerators have the following advantages over advanced autoclaves: ability to
treat a wider range of wastes; significant volume and mass reduction;
unrecognizability of treated waste residues; and minimal odors.
Advanced autoclaves have the following advantages over incinerators: minimal
air pollutant emissions and less impact on public health and environment;
compact space requirements; lower maintenance costs; and lower capital and
21



RLn'iC1 and Rccommnnn(hation on a .1MethiLa/ fKaste' Trceatmnent Tehnoalor/gi
operating costs. Also, since dioxins and furans are not produced in a steam
sterilizer, autoclaves are not affected by the Stockholm Convention.
The consultant recommends an advanced autoclave as the treatment technology
for use in St. Kitts.  In particular, the San-l-Pak 230-3P Auto-Clave is
recommended for the amount of waste generated.
S    o;*   --      A0      - "iA 
The following costs are based on a price quotation from San-l-Pak, Inc. (Tracy,
Califomia, USA) and McKesson Medical and Surgical Supply (Sacramento,
Califomia, USA) for the 3M Attest kit.
Table 7. Cost Estimates for an Advanced Autoclave
Quantity                 Item                        Cost
BASIC EQUIPMENT:
1     Sani-l-Pak 230-3P Auto-Clave                   69,503.00
1     Electnc steam generator (480 VAC) with         15,701.00
water treatment
1     Spare parts package                   Included in base cost
1     Messaging system                      Included in base cost
1     3M Attest validation test starter kit             340.25
OPTIONAL ITEMS:
1     Mobile automatic cart dumper                    8,984.00
2     90-gallon fully enclosed transport cart           712.00
2     3/4 cu. yd. dump cart for treated waste            1,400
1     Deodorant system package                          479.00
1     San-l-Pak weighing system                       4,489.00
1     In-house monitoring software package            1,996.00
1     ICS-4 gas-fired steam boiler with water        26,906.00
treatment
22



APPENDIX B1: Tender Specificatons for an
Advanced Autoclave Treatment Technology
PART 1 - QUALIFICATIONS
1.1 Description:
The work includes fumishing and installing (optional), for interior or exterior service,
complete and ready for operation one Auto-Clave 230-3P Sterilizer. The sterilizer shall be
a unit designed to handle infectious hospital waste.
1.2 Qualifications:
A.  Manufacturer regularly and presently manufactures sterilizers as one of its principal
products.
B.  Installer has technical qualifications, experience, trained personnel and facilities to install
specified products.
C.  Manufacturer's product submitted has been in satisfactory and efficient operation at
similar facilities.
D. There is a permanent service organization, maintained or trained by manufacturer which
will render service no later than 24 hours after receipt of notification that service is
needed, and be capable of providing weekend monitoring and assistance. Submit name
and address of service organization.
1.3 Manufactured Products:
A.  Materials, fixtures, and equipment fumished shall be of current production by
manufacturer regularly engaged in the manufacture of such items.
1.4 Submittals:
A Before delivery, manufacturer will supply the following
1)   Certificates:
a.  Manufacturer verifies it presently manufactures proposed equipment as a
principal product.
b.  Installer has technically qualified personnel and facilities to install equipment
specified.
c.  Name and address of service organization.
2)   Manufacturer's literature and data:
a.  Brochures showing name and address of manufacturer and the catalog or
model number of each item incorporated into the work.
81 -1



b.  Manufacturers illustration and detailed description.
c.  List of deviations from contract specifications.
3) Test Report:
a.  A.S.M.E. certified test report on the sterilizer model to be fumished.
4)   Installation Drawings:
a.  Show dimensions, method of assembly, installation and conditions relating to
adjoining work which requires cutting or close fitting, reinforcement, anchorage
and other work required for complete installation.
1.5 Safety Devices:
A.  Exposed couplings, motor shafts, gears or other moving parts, shall be fully enclosed and
guarded, in accordance with ANSI pamphlet B 15-1, irrespective of height above the
floor.
1.6 Electrical Equipment:
A.  Electrical equipment shall be suitable for use with electrical system indicated on drawings
Provide electrical components including motors, disconnect switches, motor controllers,
motor control devices and electrical circuits which conform to requirements of NFPA 70.
1.7 Name Plate:
A.  Each piece of equipment shall bear a corrosion-resisting steel or anodized aluminum
name plate located in a reasonably accessible position, permanently secured. Name
plate shall bear the name of the manufacturer, model number and serial number.
1.8 Applicable Publications:
A   The publications listed below form a part of this specification to the extent referenced
The publications are referenced in the text by the basic designation only.
1)   Federal Specifications (Fed. Spec ).
a.  QQ-S-736D - Steel Bars, Wire, Shapes and Forgings, Corrosion Resistant
b.  QQ-S-698(3) -- Steel, Sheet and Strip, Low Carbon
c   QQ-S-766C(5) - Steel Plates, Sheets and Strip, Corrosion Resisting
2)   American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME):
a.  Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII - Pressure Vessels, Division I.
3)   American National Standards Institute, Inc. (ANSI):
a.  B1 5-1 - Safety Code for Power Transmission
b.  Z245.1-1975 - Safety Standards
B1 -2



PART 2 - PRODUCTS
2.1  Auto-Clave 230-3P Sterilizer:
Auto-Clave 230-3P Sterilizer manufactured by San-l-Pak Pacific, Inc. or equal.
(San-l-Pak Pacific, Inc. - 23535 South Bird Road - Tracy, CA 95376)
A. Sterilizer.
1)  The sterilizer design shall utilize high vacuum combined with saturated steam. The
chamber shall be 17.5 cubic feet with a minimum opening of 32" (diameter).
2)  The sterilizer chamber must be able to rotate into 3 positions; load, sterilize and
discharge positions.
3)  Sterilizer chamber doors shall automatically lock once the sterilizer cycle begins.
4)  Sterilization time to be initiated only after the preset operating temperature of 2700 F
is reached (customer and regulatory dependent; may be adjusted if requested)
5)  The sterilizer shall be equipped with an automatic strip printer showing the date,
time, operator, vacuum, pressure and temperature for each sterilization cycle. The
sterilizer shall also be equipped with a digital display which displays a machine
function as it takes place  This display shall also alert the operator if there is a
system interruption and provide instructions to correct the situation.
6)  The sterilizer chamber will be constructed of stainless steel to ensure longer life of
the system.
7)  The sterilizer operation security shall be maintained by use of key locks and/or
security codes (operator identification) on the following functions:
a.  Automatic sterilization cycle and discharge sequence
b.  All pressure doors.
8)  The sterilizer must have preprogrammed sterilization parameters to avoid human
error resulting in improper treatment. The sterilization parameters must be tamper
proof and are not to be left to the discretion of the operator.
9)  The sterilizer shall be designed so the sterilized waste can be transferred to the cart
without additional operator handling. The sterilizer discharge control to be initiated
by manual key switch or operator security code which may only be activated when
"total kill" sterilization parameters have been achieved.
B Utility Requirements.
1)  The electrical service of 120 volts, single phase shall be provided for the control
panel from a 30 amp circuit breaker (If the cold weather package is used, the service
must be a minimum of 40 amps). Foreign voltages are acceptable
2)  The saturated steam flow rate shall not exceed 125 lbs. per hour at a minimum inlet
pressure of 65 psig.
a.  Total steam usage shall not exceed .65 lbs. steam per pound of infectious
waste (including reasonable system losses).
B1 -3



3) The domestic cold water service of approximately 3 gallons per minute (GPM)
minimum shall be provided to the condensate tank and wash down hose.
C. Controls:
1) The sterilizer's automatic operations shall be controlled by a programmable
controller located within the unit. The microprocessor shall be a solid state device
that is fully programmable.
D. Materials:
1)   Corrosion Resisting (Stainless) Steels:
a.  Plate, sheet and strip: Unless otherwise specified, corrosion-resisting steel flat
products shall conform to chemical composition requirements of any series
steel specified in Fed. Spec. QQ-S-766.
b.   Bars, shapes and forgings: Corrosion-resisting steel bars, shapes and forgings
shall be in accordance with Fed. Spec. QQ-S-763 and shall be of 300 series in
annealed condition.
c.  Corrosion-resisting steel tubes: Unless otherwise specified, corrosion-resisting
steel tubes shall be seamless or welded at manufacturer's option. Tubing shall
be in accordance with ASTMA 269.
d.  Finish: Exposed surfaces shall have a standard polish equal to finish No. 4.
e.  Corrosion-resisting (stainless) steel shall be hereinafter referred to as CRS.
2)   Carbon steel:
a.  Sheet Steel: Fed. Spec. QQ-S-698 cold rolled, commercial quality sheet steel
with No. 1 finish or better.
3)   Fasteners
a.  Rivets, bolts, nuts, stubs, spacers and metal used for welding shall be the
same kind of metal as the material joined. Where corrosion-resisting metals
are joined to each other or to other metals, rivets, bolts and materials used for
welding shall be corrosion-resisting metal.
4) Materials not definitely specified shall be of the quality normally used by the
manufacturer in it's standard commercial sterilizers and be free of defects and
imperfections which may effect serviceability or appearance of finished product.
2.2 Fabrication:
A.  Welding:  Joints in fabricated equipment shall be welded by an accepted method.
Carbon arc welding is not acceptable, nor is any process permitting the pick-up of carbon
acceptable. Welds shall be strong and ductile with exposed surfaces free of
imperfections such as pits, runs, spatter and cracks, and shall have the same color as
adjoining surfaces. Welded joints shall be homogeneous with the sheet metal itself.
Welding rods shall be of the same composition as the parts to be welded. Where sheet
size necessitates a joint, such joint shall be welded.
B1 -4



PART 3 - EXECUTION
3.1  Installation (Optional):
A.  Equipment and materials shall be suitable for indoor or outdoor installation in the
available space, arranged for safe and convenient operation and maintenance. If the
installation will be indoors, the optional deodorant system package is recommended; it is
also suggested the unit be located in a non-odor sensitive area.
B.  Furnish supervision of equipment installation at construction site by a qualified factory
trained technician(s) regularly employed by the equipment supplier.
3.2 Inspection:
A.  Before shipment from manufacturer's plant and following installation at project site,
finished articles shall be thoroughly inspected and tested for compliance with
specifications.
3.3 Tests:
A   Perform tests under operational conditions in the presence of Resident Engineer, or
his/her representative.
B   Evidence of malfunction in any tested system, piece of equipment or component part
thereof that occurs during or as a result of test, shall be corrected, repaired or replaced
and the test repeated.
3.4 Instruction of Personnel:
A.  Provide services of a qualified technical person, at such time after installation is complete,
for a period not less than 8 hours to instruct designated personnel in.
1 )  Operation and care of equipment.
2)  Preventative maintenance procedures for individual items of equipment.
3)  Techniques and procedures recommended by the manufacturer to achieve
maximum dependable, efficient and economical utilization of the equipment.
3.5  Operating Instructions:
A.  Provide printed instruction books and parts lists; to be delivered to the Resident Engineer
or designee. These manuals shall contain the following
1 )  Instructions for the installation, operation and maintenance of the equipment
2)   Wiring diagrams for electrical items and components.
3)   List of replacement parts, with the name and part number of each, properly
identified.
3.6  Protection to Fixtures, Material and Equipment:
Bi -5



A. Tightly cover and protect fixtures and equipment against dirt, water and chemical or
mechanical injury. Thoroughly clean interior and exterior of fixtures, materials and
equipment at the completion of all work.
3.7 Service:
A.  Must have an organized service department, fully factory trained, capable of performing
needed repairs within 24 hours of notification.
Bi -6



APPENDIX B2: Operating Procedures, Preventive
Maintenance, Training Requirements, and Periodic
Verification Testing of Treatment Technology
1. Operating Procedures for the San-l-Pak Treatment Technology
Bagged biomedical waste is brought to the San-l-Pak Treatment System in collection
carts. An autoclave liner, which has a time/temperature sensitive indicator affixed to
it is inserted into the chamber. A clamp ring is then used to hold the liner in place.
Next, the chamber is placed in the load position. The red bags are then loaded into
the lined chamber with the automatic cart dumper. After the chamber is loaded it is
either dog-eared or fastened with a tie strap. The door is closed and the unit's cycle
is initiated. After the waste is autoclaved, the door is opened and the chamber
dumps the treated waste either into a dump cart or into a compactor via a conveyor.
A. Loading and Operating
1. Load (with chamber liners, approximately 4 minutes)
* Place chamber liner on chamber
* Fold Chamber liner back over load door; place clamp ring over folded liner.
. Load chamber, remove clamp ring, and fold excess liner into chamber.
* Rotate chamber into the sterilization position.
2. Sterilization
* Blue "Sterilize" button is activated.
. San-l-Pak first pulls a vacuum with a minimum of 18 inches within the chamber.
* Air removes during the vacuum stage is mixed with 3070 F. steam.
 Steam is then injected into the sterilization chamber; chamber reaches a maximum
of 38 psig.
* After a temperature of 2700 F. is achieved; a 30-minute timer is automatically
activated.
* Chamber quickly reaches an ultimate temperature of 281° F - 2840 F.
* Chamber is held in a high temperature, high-pressure environment for the full 30
minutes.
* Upon completion of the sterilization cycle the chamber vents down.
* Existing steam is piped to the condensate tank; it condenses and flows into the
sanitary sewer.
3. Discharge
* Open load door.
* Activate "Dump" button.
* Sterilized waste falls into a dump cart or onto conveyor belt.
* Return to load position.



4. Disposal or Compaction
o Once filled, waste in the cart is transported for disposal to a sanitary landfill. If a
compactor is used, the cart is moved to the cart dumper/compactor and the cart
dump/compactor button is activated.
Most operations of a San-l-Pak System require a minimum operator interface.
Operators are needed to load the unit, (cart dumping systems are available), close
the sterilization chamber door, and to open the sterilization chamber door. Besides
pressing a few buttons, no other operator interaction is required.
B. Process Monitoring
Each autoclave is equipped with recording devices, which automatically and
continuously monitor and record performance and process parameters throughout
the autoclave cycle. The autoclave's programmable logic controller is programmed to
achieve the prescribed time, temperature and the process is reinitiated through
another complete cycle. Through the telecommunication system, San-l-Pak, Inc. is
also able to monitor the system from the factory upon your request.
2. Preventive Maintenance
Maintenance of the autoclaves is performed consistent with the autoclave
manufacturer's recommendations, which include the following schedule of
maintenance activities and planned frequency below.
Planned Frequency
Month |   Maintenance Activity Description
3         Examine door seals. Replace if necessary.
6         Check door clearances and operations. Adjust/Lubricate.
3         Check door safety operation.
6         Check and adjust loading/unloading mechanisms and equipment.
3         Check/calibrate temperature and pressure indicators
3         Test safety valves.
3         Check strainers and steam traps. Clean if necessary.
3         Check filters. Clean or replace as required.
3         Check all controls and indicator for proper operation.
3         Check recording devices for proper pull-down.
3         Test vacuum system for proper pull down.
6         Perform vacuum leak test.
3         Run all cycles while recording temperatures and pressures.
3         Check piping for leaks and valves for proper operation.
3         Check manual override for proper operations.
6         Check Battery for memory backup.
The procedures are recorded on a data sheet, signed by the performing technician
and autoclave-operating supervisor, and maintained in a logbook.
B2-2



3. Training Requirements
No person is permitted to operate an autoclave used to treat biomedical waste
without first receiving training. The manufacturer's representatives provide training to
all hospital personnel who are required to implement portions of the Operation Plan.
All such training is documented. Copies of the documentation are maintained in the
individual's personnel file at the hospital.
The training includes the following:
1. Classroom instructions on:
a. The types of waste that may and may not be autoclaved.
b. Waste segregation procedures.
c. Procedures for containing, handling, storing and transporting RMW.
d. Procedures for containing, handling, storing and transporting hazardous
waste, chemotherapeutic waste, antineoplactic waste and radioactive waste.
e. Procedures for validation testing of the autoclaves.
f. Procedures for the operation of the autoclaves.
g. Procedures for handling spills.
h. Procedures for dealing with emergency shutdowns.
i. Challenge testing procedures.
j. Maintenance procedures.
k. Manifesting procedures.
i. Certification procedures.
m. Procedures for sealing the roll-off containers prior to transport to the facility.
2. Hands on Equipment Instruction for the staff responsible from the facility.
a. Loading and unloading procedures.
b. Validation testing.
c. Operation of the equipment.
d. Challenge testing.
e. Emergency shutdown procedures, including unloading and decontamination
of the autoclave and adjacent areas.
f. Procedures for sealing the roll-off container prior to transport.
3. Periodic Validation Testing
The San-l-Pak process should be monitored with a biological indicator. The use of
the 3M 1276 Attest Steam Pack is recommended. This pack contains a biological
indicator ampoule, indicator strips, and a record-keeping card. The indicator strips
on the label and within the pack will change color to show the pack was indeed
steam processed. The biological indicator located within the pack will show the
ability of the San-l-Pak system to penetrate the barriers within the test pack, thus
achieving sterilization.
This pack is a simple and effective method of challenging the sterilization abilities of
autoclave systems. Testing can be accomplished quickly and easily. During a
normal waste processing cycle the 3M Test Pack should be placed in the chamber
with the waste to be processed. The 3M 1276 Attest Steam Pack is designed to be
B2-3



equivalent to a standard linen pack (12" x 12" x 20", 12 Ibs) which is recommended
by the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI).
After removal from the San-l-Pak, the biological indicators contained within the 3M
Test Pack are incubated at approximately 56 OC for 48 hours. After incubation, the
ampoule visually indicates growth or no growth of the indicator spore. No color
change means no growth and a high level of disinfection.
B24



