Document of
The World Bank
Report No 25210-SC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.045 MILLION
TO
ST. KITTS/NEVIS
FORA
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
(SECOND PHASE OF THE MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL APL
FOR THE CARIBBEAN)
December 13, 2002
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2, 2002)
Currency Unit = OECD Dollar (OECDS$)
OECDS$2.68 = US$1.0
FISCAL YEAR
July I -June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AIDS          Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome                              MIS            Monatonng and Evaluation
APE           Adaptable Lending Program                                          sMewhhaeSxitMn
ARV           Anti Retro Viral (drugs)                                           SM          Ment who have Sex with Men
ART           Anti Retro V'tral (dreatmet                                      MTCT          Mother to Child tmnsmission
ART           Anti Retro Viral Treatment                                       NCRA          National Council on H-IV/AIDS
AZT           Azido-Deoxy Thymidine                                            NCOt          National Competitive Bidding
CAREC         Caribbeaun Epidemiology Center                                   NAB           National A   ids Program
CARICOM       Cafibbean Commrunity and Common MatNAP                                         Nationel Aids Program
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy                                      NGO           Non-Governrental Organizations
CBO           Community-based arganeS ations                                   OECS          Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
CCC           Caribbean Council of Churcbes                                    OECS/PPS      OECS for Pharmaceuticals Procurement Servic
CCH           Caribbean Coopunilion CnHreasn                                   01            Opportunistic Infections
CDB           Caribbean Development Bank                                       PAD           Project Appraisal document
CDC           Ceaters for Disease Control                                      PAHO          Pan Arnerican health Organization
CGCED         Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Econormic Development         PCU           Project Coordination Unit
CIDA          Canadian International Developmrnenr Agstn                      PLWA           Persons livingvwith HIV/AIDS
CRN+          Caribbean Network of People living witih IViAADS                PMR            Project Management Reports
CRC           Caribbean Red Cross                                             SBD            Standard Bidding Documents
CSW           Commercial Sex Worker                                           SOE           Statement of Expenditures
DALE          Disability Adjusted-Life Expectancy                             STI           Sexually tosisutted Infections
EU            European Union                                                  TB            Tuberculosis
ERDMP         Ermergency Recovery and Disaster Mitigation Program             UNAIDS        United Nations Program for HIV/AIDS
ELISA         Enzyme Linken Immune Sarbeni Assay                              UNDCP         United Nations Drug Control Program
GDP           Gross Development Product                                       UNDP          United Nations DPvdopment Progran
GOSK          Govemment of St. Kitts/NeviS                                    UNFPA         United Nations Population Fund
HAART         Highly Active Anti RetroviraV lreraw                            UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
HIV           Human Immune-deficiency Virs                                    UWI           University of West Indies
RFLE          Health and Family Life Education                                VCT           Voluntary Counseling and Testing
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development           WB            Wotld Bank
ICB           International Competlrtve bidding                               WHO           World Health Organization
IDU           Injecting Drug Users
[EC           Information Education Communication
IPPF          Intemational Planned Parenthood Federation
IT            Information Technology
IV            Intravenous
CAP           Knowledge. Attitudes, Practices (surveys)
LACASO        Latin American and Caribbean Council for AIDS Service
Organization
Vice President:                           David De Ferranti-
Country Manager/Director:                 Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:                          Ana-Maria Arriagada
Sector Manager:                           Evangeline Javier
Sector Leader:                            William Experton
Team Leader:                              Patricio Mar uez



ST. KITTS/NEVIS: H1V/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
(Second Phase Of The Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control APL for the Caribbean)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective ........................   ........................................2
2.  Key performance indicators .....................    .............................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................6
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................8
1. Project components ..................................................................8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................... 10
3. Benefits and target population .................... ............................................ 11
3. Institutional and implementation arrangements ......................................................... 11
D. Project Rationale .................................................................            16
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ..................................................... 17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................. 17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................................. 18
E. Summary Project Analysis .................................................................     18
1. Economic ................................................................             18
2. Financial ................................................................            18
3. Technical ..........                                                                  19
4. Institutional ..........                                                              19
5. Environmental .......... 20
6. Social .......... 21
7. Participatory approach ........................... 22
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................                                           23
1. Sustainability ........................... 23
2. Critical risks ...........................                                            24
3. Possible controversial aspects ........................ 24
G. Main Loan Conditions ...........................                                               24
H. Readiness for Implementation ...........................                                       25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...........................                                      25



Annexes
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.   Economic Analysis
Annex 5.   Financial Summary
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.   Documents in the Project File
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10. Country at a Glance
Map: (IBRD 19241R1)



ST. KITTS/NEVIS
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
(SECOND PHASE OF THE MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL APL
FOR THE CARIBBEAN)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Caribbean Country Manakement Unit
Date: December 12, 2002                        Team Leader: Patricio Marquez
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos  Sector Manager/Director: Ana Marfa Arriagada
Project ID: P076798                            Sector: HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan   Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: [x ] Yes [] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan        [ ] Credit   [H Grant      [] Guarantee     [ Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.04
Proposed terms:  US$ Fixed Spread Loan  [ ] Multicurrency        [ ] Single currency
with variable interest
rate
[X] Standard Variable      [ ] Fixed
Grace period (years):          5
Years to maturity:            15
Commitment fee:           0.85% for the
first 4 years;
0.75%
thereafter
Service charge:
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    1.0%
Fidincig jiflu            'T      befin  F~         ~    -d- - ~
Government                                              0.46                            0.46
IBRD                                                    2.10             1.94           4.04
Total:                                                  2.56             1.94           4.50
Borrower: Government of St. Kitts/Nevis
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance, Development and Planning (MFDP)
Implementing agency: MiFDP and Ministry of Health
Ms. Hilary Hazel, Assistant Director of Planning, MFDP
Contact person:
MFDP
Address: Government Headquarters, Church St., Basseterre, St. Kitts and Nevis
Tel:                         Fax: 869-465-1532            E-mail:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
r14                                                   LU;_O    -              __ ____  __
Annual       0.45         1.18        1.23        0.99        0.19
Cumulative       0.45         1.63        2.86        3.85        4.04
Project implementation period: January 1, 2003-December 31, 2008
Expected effectiveness date: March/April 2003      Expected closing date: June 30, 2008



2
St. Kitts/Nevis HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care Project
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
St. Kitts/Nevis has met the eligibility criteria for country participation in the Multi-Country
HIV/AJIDS Prevention and Control Adaptable Program Lending (APL) for the Caribbean Region,
which provides loans and/or credits to governments in the Region to finance their HIV/AIDS
prevention Programs (see Section D.4).
The project aims to support selected activities of St. Kitts/Nevis' Strategic Plan for the National
Response to HIV/AIDS (SPNR). It would assist the Government of St. Kitts/Nevis (GOSK) to
control the spread of HIV/AIDS through (a) scaling up prevention programs targeting high-risk
groups as well as the general population; (b) strengthening treatment, care and support for persons
living with HIV/AIDS (PLWA); and (c) strengthening of St. Kitts/Nevis' multi-sectoral
institutional capacity to better respond to the epidemic.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
St. Kitts/Nevis would monitor progress of HIV prevention, treatment, care and support with three
types of performance indicators: process, outcome and impact (see Annex 1), with 2002 as a base
year. For the purpose of project implementation evaluation, emphasis will thus be placed on the
following indicators.
Processes indicators (long-term sustainabilitv of institutional performance. monitored annually):
a)     National response management established and maintained and HIV/AIDS program
participation by multi-sectoral partners and agencies mainstreamed (Management Performance).
b)     Periodic "second generation" KAP survey results available for monitoring, evaluation and
Management Performance;
c)     Available quarterly reports on tracking the course of the epidemic, detailed by "at risk"
groups (Surveillance System performance).
d)     Case-by-case information on PLWAs for physicians and caregivers coded to preserve
confidentiality (Surveillance System performance).
e)     Legislation and regulatory reform on PLWAs rights protection instituted (Advocacy
performance);
f)     Anecdotal evidence and attitudinal surveys of PLWAs and their organizations (Advocacy
performance);
g)    Indicators of timeliness of programming and implementation, and partnerships established,
(Institutional performance).
Outcome Indicators (monitored annually after 2nd year of project implementation):
a)   % males and females 15+ years old using condoms (50% expected at end of the project);
b)   Average age of first sexual intercourse in males and females (1-year increase by end of the
project);
c)   % males 15+ years old with more than one sex partner last year (30% reduction by end of the
project);
d)   % females 15+ years old with more than one sex partner last year (50% reduction by end of
the project);



3
e)   % of HIV/AIDS transmitted by blood transfusion in the federation (0% throughout the
project life);
f)   % voluntary testing and counseling (50% increase at end of the project);
g)   % of reported AIDS patients under ART (85% at the end of the project);
h)   % opportunistic infections among PLWAs (60% reduction by end of project);
i)   Average time at work for HIV/AIDS patients;
j)    % of PLWAs discriminated in public and workplaces, and among caregivers (70% reduction
expected by end of the project);
Impact (monitored every 2 years):
k)   Number of reported cases of positive HIV infection in testing programs (50% reduction
expected by end of the project.);
1)   % of HIV children born from HIV/AIDS mothers (50% reduction expected by end of the
project)
m)   Deaths due to AIDS (25% reduction expected by end of the project);
n)   Life expectancy of PLWAs (2-3 years increase at the end of the project)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Document number: 22205-LAC                 Date of latest CAS discussion: June 28, 2001
The proposed project is consistent with the CAS for the Eastern Caribbean Sub-region of June
2001. This CAS identifies the need to promote human development for long-term growth, to be
accomplished through health and education programs that emphasize improved access, equity and
quality and the need for regionally coordinated actions on issues when in-country solutions could
be significantly disrupted by "off-shore" events. In the context of increased integration of
Caribbean countries and great population mobility and immigration among the islands, HIV/AIDS
has become a cross-border issue. This project is consistent with the CAS and its health goals by
improving the availability of HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment and care for the population,
especially for marginalized groups at high risk. The project is expected to mitigate the negative
impact of HIV/AIDS on the socioeconomic development of St. Kitts/Nevis.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues
Health System issues
St. Kitts and Nevis can provide primary and secondary care but no tertiary care. St Kitts has three
hospitals and 11 health centers, whereas Nevis has a hospital and 6 health centers. Both islands can
provide primary and secondary care with uneven quality, but tertiary care needs are met outside
their territories. The Joseph N. France (JNF) hospital in Saint Kitts with about 130 beds is under
full refurbishing and expansion, and provides medical and surgical care (secondary care) for
children, women and other adults. Lab services cover essential tests for clinical and surgical
diagnosis and patient management, including hematology, biochemistry, serology, microbiology,
blood bank services and pathology. The other two hospitals (Mary Charles with 8 beds, and Pogson
hospital with about 30 beds) function more as primary care health centers with beds for observation
and primary clinical care that could be performed at home. None have laboratory services.
Emergencies are always referred to JNF hospital. Emergencies are always referred to JNF hospital,
and ambulance services are undergoing substantial improvements. The Pogson hospital is 110 years
old and due to bad conditions of the building it needs to be rebuilt. Health center facilities are in



4
general of good quality and have good outreach community health care activities. All need space
conditioning to carry out VCT for HIV/AIDS appropriately.
A physician typically covers 2 or more health centers with a weekly or biweekly visit and most
maintains private practices. In Nevis, the Alexandra Hospital is also under refurbishing and
expansion, and has a good laboratory capable of performing essential tests including hematology,
biochemistry, serology, microbiology, blood bank services and pathology. Elisa HIV/AIDS testing
is carried out only at JNF and Alexandra hospitals. Confirmation of positive tests is carried out by
CAREC (Western Blot). No facilities for DC4/DC8 or viral load exist. Training in VCT, HIV/AIDS
testing and case management has been brief and slim.
The fact that St. Kitts/Nevis is a twin-island state presents a challenge in delivering health services
to its population. The health system has limited capacity in disease surveillance, as well as in
monitoring and evaluation functions. As a result, many basic health statistics are lacking. With a
significant funding gap in health financing and insufficient complementary public and private
financing mechanisms, financial sustainability remains a great challenge for St. Kitts/Nevis,
especially with the slowing down of the economy.
HI/AIDS issues
High HIV prevalence. As with all Caribbean countries, the first case of HIV/AIDS in St.
Kitts/Nevis was discovered in the mid 1980s. Since then, the country has seen a significant rise in
HIV/AIDS and it has started to affect the population as a whole. As of third quarter 2001, St. Kitts
and Nevis reported 195 cumulative HIV cases, 75 AIDS cases and 58 deaths because of AIDS. Of
these, 36 cumulative HIV/AIDS cases belong to Nevis, of which, 1 has AIDS, and 18 have died due
to AIDS.
Despite the absence of a sentinel surveillance system, HIV prevalence among people aged 15-49 is
estimated at about 1.5 - 2.0%, which means that about 450-600 people are already infected by HIV.
Furthermore, different estimates indicate that between 2 to 5% of pregnant women are HIV
positive. Without any intervention, this can produce new HIV positive newborns a year. The
majority of reported cases were among persons 25-44 years of age, with a sex ratio of 2 males to 1
female. These figures indicate that if effective action is not taken now, the situation could evolve
into a generalized epidemic. Worse, a 1.5 - 2% prevalence in a small population such as that of St.
Kitts/Nevis is far more serious than in larger populations, because its impact in the productive
population is felt more severely. Overall, CAREC estimates that there may be up to 40% under-
reportingl. MSM cases account for about 3%, which is also considered to be seriously under-
reported due to the stigma attached to homosexuality in the country.
Although HIV/AIDS testing is available in the public health sector, clients are reluctant to access
the service due to stigmatization and confidentiality concerns. Most testing occurs either with
private physicians or offshore. Access to treatment and hospital care for some opportunistic
infections is already available in the public health facilities. A small group of patients who can
afford ARV treatment is already under ARV regimen in the private sector and some of them under
"biotherapy" due to economic restrictions.
HIV/AIDS risk factors. St. Kitts/Nevis has high vulnerability for a generalized epidemic due to a
combination of various factors:
EpidemiologicaL Although there was a 40% decline in the number of reported cases of
gonorrhea and a stabilization of the number of syphilis cases in the 90gs2, the prevalence of
'Communication from CAREC through PAHO Regional Office, Barbados
2 Health in the Americas. PAHO, 1998



5
STI remains relatively high and with a tendency to increase again, according to practicing
health professionals.
*  Behavioral. It is reported that early initiation to risky sexual activities among youth (boys
between 14-17 with girls between 12-14) is prevalent. Male promiscuity is tolerated in the
context of a male-dorminating society. Sexual relations between older, successful men
("sugar daddies") and younger girls are common. The use of condoms is low.
*  SociaL For the society as a whole, stigma and discrimination against HIV/AIDS is still
very prevalent. A strong religious tradition also inhibits an open, frank public discussion of
safe sex and other HIV/AIDS-related issues. Especially, a growing Rastafarian community
strongly opposes condom use and efforts to popularize condoms. Although there is
increasing tolerance toward MSM, homosexuality is still illegal and very much
underground. Gender inequities tend to diminish the power of women to negotiate safe
sexual practices. All of the above-mentioned factors can undermine prevention and care
efforts in the population. Commercial sex work exists with both local and visiting sex
workers from other countries. There is great population mobility with large numbers of
tourists from America, Europe and other countries in the region visiting St. Kitts/Nevis, as
well as migrant laborers from Caribbean countries seeking construction jobs in the twin-
island state. Poverty, known to increase people's vulnerability to HIV/AIDS, affects
especially female-headed households, which make up one-third of the total number of
households in St. Kitts/Nevis. Among these, more than 50% are unemployed.
Health and socioeconomic impacts of HIV/AIDS. Given the very small size of the country, the
health and socioeconomic impacts of a generalized HIV/AIDS epidemic will be accentuated. With
mortality and morbidity from HIV/AI1)S concentrated in the 25-49 age group, there is an important
risk that human resources needed to support a service-oriented economy will be strained, limiting
the growth potential of these sectors. The strains that HIV/AIDS can exert on the health system can
also impact government finances, which already account for 10 to 16% of the budget for recurrent
health expenditures.
Government Strategy
St. KittsfNevis responded to the outbreak of HIV/AIDS in the mid-eighties by setting up a National
AIDS Program within the Ministry of Health, which depended essentially on external assistance
(e.g. CAREC) to initiate testing, surveillance and research, protect blood supplies, and carry out
communication and behavioral interventions. With the situation worsening in the mnid nineties, the
GOSK took a more proactive approach and set up an AIDS Coordination Unit within the Ministry
of Health, staffed with a coordinator and two professional staff. The Coordination Unit has, since
then, been very dynamic in mobilizing NGOs, community groups and other ministries of
government with the goal of raising public awareness and changing behavior. The Ministry of
Health has also begun a more concerted effort to fight HIV/AIDS by strengthening STI
management and condom programs. Condom distribution has become a more common practice at
festivals, carnival and other public gatherings. The issue to be addressed is how to scale up other
effective interventions and sustain the momentum over the longer term.
In parallel, St. Kitts/Nevis early recognized and financially supported the participation of PLWAS
in HIV/AIDS education and support efforts. This network is, unfortunately, fragile in that its
members are confirmed AIDS cases. Although the leadership has recently been lost to the infection
attempts are being made to strengthen the network. In spite of this support, however, there
continues to be discrimination and stigma attached to HIV/AIDS among the public at large and
some segments of the public service.
With regards to the national response to HIV/AIDS, challenges still remain. St. Kitts/Nevis has not
modified law and regulation to protect PLWA against discrimination. No specific vulnerable group



6
has been identified and targeted for interventions. Despite education efforts, behavior change is
thought to be marginal. Specialized STI clinic is stigmatized and clients are reluctant to access the
services there. People are also reluctant to receive VCT services in the public sector, preferring the
private services or going overseas to St. Marten. Treatment, care and support for PLWA is limited
and there are currently no AIDS patients being treated in country, although some are reported to be
receiving ARV treatment on a private basis or out-of-country. At this time, St. Kits/Nevis with the
assistance of CAREC, is developing a program for preventing mother-to-child transmission as well
as sentinel and second-generation surveillance protocols. Training in VCT, MTCT, and syndromes
management of STIs needs substantial improvement. Only a physician has received formal training
in ART. Little is known about current HIV-related knowledge, attitude, practice and behavior of
the population, as the latest KAP survey was conducted in 1991.
T'he National HIV/AIDS Plan. Recognizing the challenges ahead, the Government has adopted
the Caribbean Regional Strategic Plan of Action for HIV/AIDS, to which it contributed. Within the
framework of this Regional Plan and after wide consultations among stakeholders in the country,
the Ministry of Health has formulated the "Strategic Plan for the National Response to HIV/AIDS
in St. Kitts/Nevis" with the goals of reducing: (i) the spread of HIV infections and (ii) the impacts
of HIV/AIDS on individuals, families and communities. The Plan identifies five priority areas for
intervention:
1.    Prevention
2.     Treatment, Care and Support
3.     Advocacy
4.     Surveillance, Epidemiology and Research
5.     Program Coordination and management
The strategies that would be highlighted are: Effective culturally sensitive education, information
and communication; improved STD clinical management; increased condom promotion and access
for prevention of STI and HIV; treatment, care and support of PLWA to reduce stigma and
discrimination and to improve quality of life; increased opportunity and acceptability of VCT.
A short- and medium- term operational Program with targets and indicators has been prepared with
the assistance of agencies such as CAREC, UNAIDS, University of West Indies (UWI), and the
World Bank support through a PHRD Grant. A detailed exercise to estimate the cost of scaling up
HIV/AIDS interventions and on that basis, provide the GOSK with information to prioritize actions
in the face of budget constraints is being executed.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project aims to provide support to each of the five priority areas identified in the
National Strategic Plan and strengthen St. Kitts/Nevis' national capacity to response to HIV/AIDS.
However, St. Kitts and Nevis is a small country and faces sever constraints on its human and
financial resources. This means that the response will require cross-institutional sharing of
resources and capacities, and the reliance and strengthening of sub-regional arrangements for
undertaking specialized medical, laboratory, and drug procurement functions. In this framework,
sector issues to be addressed include the following:
Reducing stigma and discrimination, PLWA empowerment, and anti-discrimination
legislation
Stigma and discrimination undermining prevention and care efforts, is one of the greatest
challenges in the fight against HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean, especially in small communities. The
project will address this issue through IEC campaigns, which involve communities and PLWA and
protecting confidentiality of medical records with the use of MIS. It will also assist policy
formation and help reinforce law and legislation to protect the rights of PLWA and other vulnerable



7
groups. Such social policies would help "put on a normal footing" HIV/AIDS, reduce
discrimination and stigma, and enable effective targeted interventions.
Implementing a multi-sectoral approach
HIV/AIDS in St. Kitts/Nevis has been centered on the health sector, as it is still perceived as a
health problem under the responsibility of the MOH, rather than a complex societal issue requiring
the participation of relevant sectors to ensure maximum impact and sustainability. The project will
assist the government in mobilizing different sectors and partners in preventing and controlling
HIV/AIDS by involving relevant ministries (e.g. Labor, Education, Tourism), private and voluntary
sectors, and local communities in the design and implementation project activities.
Identifying and targeting vulnerable groups
Certain groups are more likely to get infected and transmit HIV. Preventing HIV infection among
these groups would have the highest potential impact on the epidemic. Fifteen years after the start
of the epidemic and the national AIDS program, little has been done about the groups vulnerable to
HIV/AIDS in the society. The project will help St. Kitts/Nevis identify such vulnerable groups and
design and implement effective interventions for each group (CSW, MSM, IDU, out-of school
youths, etc.). The project will put special emphasis on intervention strategies that are more likely to
yield behavior change; for example, peer education, condom use, STI management, VCT, positive
social values, etc.
Strengthening treatment, care and support for PLWA
The growing population of PLWA in St. Kitts/Nevis is not receiving the basic, non-discriminatory
treatment, care and support they need. Many health workers do not have adequate knowledge and
skills in HIV/AIDS management. The health system has to fully establish the' necessary
infrastructure with basic standards of treatment and care for HIV/AIDS. The project will support
the delivery of appropriate palliative care, prophylaxis and treatment for opportunistic infections
(OI) and referral for HIV/AIDS patients. The project also seeks to support households and
communities to take care of infected patients through the development of care guidelines, training,
the provision of home care kits (drugs, first aid), and support to NGOs providing hospice care. The
project would finance ihe organization and strengthening of HIV/AIDS-related infrastructure
required for successful implementation of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), and would
finance ARV as well.
Strengthening the capacity of the National AIDS Program
As identified by the National Strategic Plan, the management structure of the HIV/AIDS Unit
remains weak with limited capacity. The unclear division of labor between the Health Promotion
Unit of the MOH and the NAP leads to uncertainty over program responsibility. The involvement
of Nevis in HIV/AIDS prevention and control will be improved through the technical, managerial
and implementation capacity of the NAP at the national and district levels.
Improving the information base for better decision-making
The information base for planning and monitoring interventions remains poor. Sentinel and
behavioral surveillance is not in place, and for this reason, little is known about the trends of
HIV/AIDS and the behaviors driving the epidemic so as to better plan prevention and care efforts.
Program monitoring and evaluation is non-existent. The project would address this problem by (a)
supporting second-generation surveillance; (b) establishing a formal M&E system with quantifiable
indicators; (d) upgrading the information system; and (g) providing related technical assistance to
meet capacity building needs in this area.



8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2)
The priority areas of the St.Kitts/Nevis Strategic Plan have been translated into the following five
main project components.
A. Advocacy and behavior change (US$ 505,000)
Advocacy. The Project would assist the government to create a favorable legal and policy
environment that protects the rights of PLWA. This work would begin as part of project
preparation, including identification of strategic partners (media, local celebrities, religious,
business and community leaders) to mobilize their support in public information campaigns against
stigma and mobilization. PLWA will be involved in these advocacy activities.
Information education and communication - IEC. Aiming at maintain people's awareness of
HIV/AIDS and prevention measures, promote behavior changes for safe sex practices and risk
reduction. It will be done through national and community campaigns.
B. Prevention in high-risk groups and general population (US$ 1,131,411)
This component would finance activities to identify high-risk groups (CSW, MSM, uniformed
personnel, migrant workers, and hotel and tourism workers) and their informal networks (e.g.
through participatory mapping), in order to target them with prevention and behavioral change
interventions. For both, target groups and the general population, the project would support LEC and
awareness campaigns, VCT services, condom distribution, prevention of MTCT, and STI
management. A strong emphasis will be laid on youths (both in and out of school).
Condom social marketing and distribution. This aims to popularize the use of condom and increase
their availability at traditional and non-traditional outlets through social marketing and other
distribution mechanisms.
Prevention and control of STIs. Training, education and re-orientation of clinical services would be
carried out for the staff at health centers. The project would finance the pre-packed STI therapy for
implementing the syndromes management approach, which has been highly successful in many
countries.
Prevention of mother-to-child transmission. The project would assist the MOH in implementing its
MTCT initiative. It would include dissemination of the MTCT protocol, training health care
workers in MTCT, supporting universal VCT at ante-natal clinics, and providing HIV-positive
pregnant women and their offspring with ART.
Strengthening voluntary counseling and testing. The project would support (i) upgrading the
physical capacity of selected public clinics to perform counseling, and testing as a complement to
that being done by private physicians, (ii) training nurses and counselors;
New activities would be introduced to respond to changing circumstances on the ground. Project
financing would cover operating costs, equipment and goods, consultant services, training services
for staff, publication services, condoms and drugs required to implement these activities.
Improved Management of Biomedical Wastes. Although the size and type of services provided by
the project do not pose threat to health personnel, patients, or the community, the project would
finance the strengthening of the biomedical waste management system in public health facilities,
including equipment, training, technical assistance and new facilities for the treatment and disposal
of bio-medical wastes.



9
C. Access to Treatment, Care and Support for PLWA (US$1,918,000)
The project would support capacity strengthening and upgrading current services available for
providing treatment, care and support for PLWA.
Management of opportunistic infections and palliative care. This would involve disseminating
clinical protocols for HIV/AIDS treatment and care (including the management of common OI,
TB), training health workers in HIV/AIDS treatment and care, assuring the availability of basic
drugs for OI.
Introducing HAART. This would involve adopting "WHO Antiretroviral Guidelines for Developing
Countries", establishing the HAART protocol, training health workers in HAART, and assuring the
timely selection, procurement, distribution and use of ARV.
Strengthening heath facilities/laboratory capacity. To implement HAART, the health care delivery
network, including the reconstruction of Pogson Health Facility at Sandy Point, and the laboratory
system in the country would need to be strengthened to perform basic tests such as CD-4 count. The
project would support the improvement of the health facilities to provide reliable primary and
tertiary response and the laboratory capacity for HIV screening and testing. Given the limited
number of tests and high costs of equipment and maintenance required for HAART, viral load tests
would be performed in CAREC and other out-of-country facilities when needed, under project
financing.
Pharmacy Strengthening. This is required to support the introduction of HAART. The project
would assist St. Kitts/Nevis in its participation in the OECS central drug procurement system to
ensure efficient and effective selection, procurement, distribution and use of ARV drugs. It would
also support strengthening of in-country pharmacy management capacity.
Home and Community-Based Care for PLWA. This would include training community health
workers and NGOs in care and support; strengthening the social support network for PLWA; and
setting up a hospice/ day care facility for AIDS patients
D. Surveillance, Epidemiology and Research (US$ 545,250)
The project would support a new information system, which would: (i) protect the confidentiality of
medical records assuring patient privacy through encrypted technology; (ii) improve the quality of
the information allowing for cross reference analysis from multiple databases being implemented;
and (iii) support decision making in case management, particularly for ART but also for STIs in
general, by providing secured online real time clinical information.
The project would provide system design, adaptation of available software and procurement of
hardware, installation, provision of IT support and the training for practitioners, laboratory staff and
MOH researchers required to use the system. Project resources would finance the requisite
consultant services, physical infrastructure, goods and training services required to establish the
system and contribute to operating costs.
The project would support second-generation surveillance that monitors both HIV infection and
risk behaviors to inform the trends of the epidemic. A monitoring and evaluation system will be put
in place with quantifiable indicators.



10
E. Sustainable Management Response (US$ 295,750)
The project would support the creation and the initial operations of a "National Council on
HIV/AIDS (NCHA)", whose mandate would be to provide policy guidance to the Prime Minister
and his Cabinet, and oversee implementation and resources mobilization for HIV/AIDS. The
membership of this Council would be appointed by the Cabinet from senior government officials in
charge of "focal points" in key mninisters for the multi-sectoral response and from the private sector
organizations involved in addressing social and economic issues in the country. Private
organizations, NGOs and CBOs dealing with HIV/AlDS prevention and control activities, PLWAS,
and concerned citizens would represent the private sector. The main functions of this Council are to
advocate legislation for protecting human and civil rights of PLWAS, make policy
recommendations concerning HIV/AIDS, and mobilize society and resources to prevent and control
HIV/AIDS in the country. Under legislation now in consideration, the Council may be financially
autonomous, with the power to receive grants from the government, endowments, contributions and
donations and incur debts. It would be separately auditable entity. Implications of this legislation
for the implementation of the project would be reviewed and accommodated as appropriate.
The Project would also support the operation of a virtual PCU under the leadership of a Steering
Committee, which would be responsible for project implementation and periodic briefing to the
Cabinet and the NCHA on project implementation activities (see Implementation Arrangements,
below).
Ministries and agencies with operational responsibilities for the program would designate a "focal
point" staff to be responsible for implementing the agencies' program components.
Project resources would be provided for consultant services that could include the employment of
national contractual staff in the PCU, training activities, in-country and out-of-country travel, office
facilities, equipment and logistical support. As part of the government counterpart obligations the
costs of civil service personnel would be covered.
TABLE 1: Estimated Project Costs by Component
INDICATIVE  .%OF       BANK      %OFBANK
COMPONENT                COSTS (US$M) TOTAL FINANCING (USSM) FINANCING
1. ADVOCACY AND BEHAVIOR CHANGE           0.51      11.2%      0.45        11.2%
2. PREVENTION                              1.13     25.1%      1.07       26.4%
3. ACCESS TO TREATMENT, CARE AND SUPPORT   1.92     42.6%      1.74       43.1%
4. SURVEILLANCE, EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RESEARCH  0.55    12.1%      0.52        13.0%
5. SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT RESPONSE         0.30     6.6%       0.15        3.8%
UNALLOCATED                               0.07      1.4%       0.07        1.6%
TOTAL     4.46     99.1%      4 00        99.0%
FRONT-END FEE                              0.04     0.9%       0.04        1.0%
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                  4.50     100.0%      4.04       100 0%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought
The Project would support five key policy and institutional reforms. First, it would introduce
legislation to protect PLWA human rights and to help reducing stigma and discrimination - a major
risk factor that undermines prevention and treatment efforts. Second, it introduces targeted
interventions for high-risk populations, which will complement on-going interventions for the
general population in the country. Third, it will initiate HAART in St. Kitts/Nevis as part of
strengthening care, treatment and support for PLWA, which is expected to have spill over effects in



11
prevention as well. Fourth, it would encourage a multi-sectoral approach in HIV/AIDS activities
with the involvement of relevant line ministries, NGOs, civil society as well as the private sector.
Fifth, it would strengthen the management structure to ensure sustainability of the Strategic Plan for
the National response to HIV/AIDS.
3. Benefits and target population
The program would benefit (i) vulnerable groups, (ii) PLWA and their families; (iii) the general
community. Among the high-risk groups, the project would decrease the burden of HIV/AIDS and
other STI. The estimated 400 PLWA in St. Kitts/Nevis would benefit from better treatment of 01,
palliative care and support, which will prolong and improve the quality of their lives. The total
population of St. Kitts/Nevis will benefit from reduced HLV incidence thanks to (i) preventive
interventions targeted at the general community; and (ii) reduced transmission from high-risk
groups to lower-risk groups.
On a macro level, the society as a whole will benefit from the slowing and ultimately reverse of the
growth in human, social and economic cost that accompanies the rise in HIV/AIDS cases, which
often disproportionately affects the more productive segments of the economy. The burden on the
health system would be reduced or avoided.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Institutional Arrangements
The GOSK would implement the project through two key agencies, the Ministries of Finance,
Development and Planning and of Health, through a "virtual unit" that would share staff with other
mainstream units in these ministries. GOSK is also considering specific legislation for establishing
the structure of the National Response, which includes the formal organization of the National
Council on HIV/AIDS - NCHA, which may become active in the early stages of the project. In the
interim the following institutional arrangements would be made:
(a) National Council on HIVIAIDS -NCHA: Although not essential for the launching of the project,
this Council would start its functions as early as possible on an interim basis with a core
membership appointed by Cabinet while approval of any additional legislation by the Parliament
takes place. Thus, its final organization and operation would be considered as an output of the
project for ensuring implementation of both, the project and the National Strategic Plan for
HIV/AIDS. Once established, the Council would report through the Cabinet to the Prime Minister.
Key officials of the Health Ministry of Nevis would also be members.
(b) Project Coordination Unit- PCU: The implementation of the project would be assigned to a
PCU, as a virtual unit under the authority of the Ministry of Finance, Development and Planning
(MOF). The PCU would be headed by a Project Coordinator, who would report on administrative
and technical matters to the Ministers of MOF and MOH and through them to Cabinet, and would
provide the NCHA with all relevant information concerning project execution and its results to
permit it to provide adequate guidance to the Government and the public on the implementation of
the National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS. The PCU would be staffed with: a) the staff members
from the MOF in charge of financial management activities for projects under World Bank
financing, including procurement, disbursement, contracting, accounting, and reporting; and b) staff
members from the MOH in charge of various technical aspects of the project including the
Community Health Services Unit, the Health Information Unit, and the Chief Medical Officer's
staff. Under the leadership of the Project Coordinator, the daily work of the PCU would be
coordinated by a PCU Steering Committee formed with one (technical) representative from the
PCU/MOH staff, one (administrative/financial) representative from the PCU/MOF staff and the
Permanent Secretary of MOH. The PCU Steering Committee would review activities programmed
for implementing the annual work program and would make decisions in support of project
implementation, based on the Operations Manual. It would meet initially on a weekly basis and



12
then as needed.
(c) Ministry and Agency "Focal Points": In each participating Ministry and Government Agency
there would be a small office with one or two staff members responsible for liaison with the PCU/
Steering Committee on matters of project implementation. These "focal points" would organize and
manage specific funding and activities related to HIV/AIDS activities developed by their Ministries
for their constituencies (target groups), and would maintain close coordination with the PCU for
technical, financial and administrative support as well as programming, follow up, and evaluation.
(d) Nevis HIV/AIDS Committee: This Comrnittee, currently in operation, would be equivalent to a
"focal point" for the purposes of liaisons with the PCU.
(e) NGOs, CBOs and other private Agencies: These organizations would enter into agreements and
contracts with the PCU for developing programs and activities related to HIV/AIDS target groups.
The PCU would provide technical support and supervise the execution of grants/contracts agreed
upon with these organizations.
Implementation Arrangements
Annual Work Planning and Programming
The project would be implemented following annual work programs according to a calendar that
mirrors the preparation of the Government's annual budget. They would be designed to account for
the results obtained in the prior year's work, the further refinement of needs assessed in vulnerable
groups, and new opportunities and knowledge. The project Operations Manual would contain
guidelines for annual work program preparation and implementation and would be a condition for
effectiveness.
Procurement
Procurement under the project would be centered in the PCU (Ministry of Finance branch) for
equipment, goods, works and consultant services financed out of WB loan proceeds, and in
collaboration with the MOH for the procurement of condoms and ART drugs. These agencies
would follow the tendering procedures of the GOSK, as supplemented to conform to the World
Bank Guidelines for works, goods and consultant services. The most recent country procurement
assessment has placed St. Kitts/Nevis procurement "risk rating" as high. Appropriate mitigation
measures and thresholds have been agreed and are contained in the Operations Manual. Line
ministries would also originate proposals for the procurement of goods and services that would be
associated with their own project activities, some of which could use ministry funds as counterpart.
The methodology for originating such proposals, clearing them with the Steering Committee and
processing them through the PCU would be described in the Operations Manual. The PCU/MOF
branch would be the central manager of this process, and the repository of records.
Procurement would be managed on the basis of annual procurement plans that would correspond to
the annual work program. The Bank would approve both the annual work program and the
corresponding procurement plan. The first year's work plan and procurement plan would be agreed
at negotiations.
St. Kitts/Nevis participates in the central OECS Pharmaceutical Procurement Service -OECS/PPS-
to obtain all drugs and medical supplies for the public sector health services. Drugs are typically
procured to satisfy "National Formularies" (lists of types and quantities of various name brand
and/or generic drugs needed for the year). These needs are pooled across the OECS countries, and
prices for the range of drugs are obtained through offers from regional wholesale suppliers that
represent manufacturers. Delivery contracts are awarded on the basis of the lowest price for a
specified quantity to be delivered to each country throughout the year.



13
When St. Kitts/Nevis is ready to begin ART, ARV drugs would be selected following WHO
Guidelines for first line ARV for developing countries; then they would be included in its National
Formulary and procured through the OECS/PPS. GOSK would enter into an agreement with
OECS/PPS that would cover the transfer and use of GOSK counterpart and World Bank funds,
OECS/PPS record keeping and accountabilities, and the procurement regime to be followed. The
Bank has completed an assessment of the OECS/PPS system and has found it to be cost-effective
service for member countries. Moreover the continued use of OECS/PPS under the Project would
represent continuity of on going procurement arrangements with St. Kitts/Nevis for which there is
not a clear competitor as stated in Article 3.9 of the Bank Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants. Therefore, ARV drugs would be procured from suppliers according to
registered brand names and generics, at prices that are being negotiated in various forms with
manufacturers3, and would be proposed to the Bank (when loan proceeds are to be used to finance
the purchase) as "sole source" procurement through OECP/PPS. St. Kitts/Nevis would also use
OECP/PPS services for the procurement of condoms, vaccines and other medical supplies required.
To support the project, GOSK would also enter into an agreement with PAHO, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of having CAREC: (a) process PCR, CD4 and
viral load testing; (b) confirm HIV/AIDS diagnostic tests and (c) provide specialized training. The
agreement would cover record keeping and accountabilities, technical requirements of the work,
conditions for transferring GOSK and WB financing, and methods for work programming
The project would also rely on the services of various NGOs, CBOs and FBOs to implement
various project-related IEC and community care functions. The PCU would both solicit and/or
receive proposals for performing such services as for consulting services provided by small firms,
as well s make awards as "grants". Specifics of the solicitation, evaluation and awards, and
contracting processes are contained in the Operations Manual.
Financial Management
Accounting and financial management for the project would be centralized at the MOF Unit in
charge of managing other Bank financed projects, which would become the MOF branch in the
PCU. Each participating agency would maintain its own records of government budget
expenditures associated with the project. The MOF branch would compile a set of monthly-
consolidated accounts for the project itself from line ministry submissions. The MOF would also be
the repository for all other project recording, accounting and reporting. A financial management
assessment has been completed which concluded that financial management within the PCU would
satisfy the Bank's minimum financial requirements upon completion of an Action Plan detailed in
Annex 6.
Salient features of the project's financial management include the following:
Disbursement. These would be made on the basis of SOEs. Financial Management Reports (FMR)
would be used for reporting purposes only. Funding from the federal budget would be drawn by
participating agencies according to the procedures now in place. Funding by loan proceeds would
pass from a special account held in a commercial bank, to the PCU/MOF, which would maintain its
own current account for expenditures. GOSK counterpart financing would also pass to a separate
PCU/MOF account on a quarterly basis to match expected outlays. Retroactive financing for
expenditures up to 10% of the loan from the date of appraisal is being proposed. Documents in
support of SOEs would be maintained by the PCU for at least until one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the loan withdrawal was made. Such
documents would be made available to review by external auditors and Bank staff. A detailed
description of Flow of Funds is contained in Annex 6.
3St Kitts/Nevis is a leading participant in the Caribbean initiative to negotiate prices for ARV drugs on a
regional basis, with manufacturers.



14
Special Account (SA). The PCU will establish a SA in USDollars, in a commercial bank (most
likely Scotia Bank). The SA would only be used for eligible expenditures under the loan
agreement. The PCU could, however, pre-finance expenditures with counterpart funds and then
reimburse itself from the SA for the Bank's share of these expenditures. For replenishment of the
SA, the PCU would regularly prepare requests for reimbursement (i.e. SOE Applications) of
expenditures made. Monthly requests are preferred but longer reporting intervals, not to exceed
three months, are permitted. The PCU may be instructed to refund amounts advanced to the SA if a
request is not received after more than six months.
Staffing. The Accounting Department is comprised of a Supervising Accountant and a Project
Accountant, which both report to the Project Coordinator. The project Accountant started in July
2002, and has received some training from the Supervising Accountant. The project anticipates
appointing a new supervising accountant by January 2003.
Reporting and Monitoring. The project accountant will be responsible for preparing the quarterly
FMRs, the annual financial statements and the loan withdrawal applications. The supervising
accountant will be responsible for reviewing what the project accountant prepares to ensure the
accuracy and relevance of the information. The PCU confirmed that they would be using Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for reporting purposes and not for disbursement purposes. The format
of the FMR would include report 1-A Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, and report 1-B Uses
of Funds by Project Activity, in addition to the project progress reports and the procurement
management reports.
The FMR formats and guidelines have been reviewed and discussed with the project accountant. In
addition, the mission demonstrated the information that can be exported from QuickBooks to Excel
to prepare reports 1-A and 1-B. The FMRs will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after
the end of each reporting quarter.
Financial Statements. For Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include the
Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds, the Statement of Cumulative Expenditures, the schedule
of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of loan withdrawal
applications, and the Statement of the Special Account. The project will prepare monthly Statement
of Expenditures to support its applications for replenishment of the funds in their Special Account.
A copy the format of the SOE Summary Sheet as well as the SOE - Contract Detail sheet was
reviewed and discussed with the project accountant.
Auditing. The project may be subject to an internal audit conducted by the MOF. For external audit
purposes and according to the project legal agreements currently being implemented by the PCU,
the project must submit to the Bank, acceptable audited financial statements for every fiscal year.
This same arrangement would apply to the HIV/AIDS project and are summarized as follows:
* Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORs) acceptable to the Bank.
*  The audit opinions will cover at least the project financial statements, Special Account and
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
*  The auditors will perform at least one interim visit per year.
*  A management letter will be prepared after each interim and annual visit and a copy will be
submitted to the Bank.



15
* The project's annual audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than four months
after the end of the fiscal year end.
According to Bank records, since 1999, audit reports from this PCU for other project have usually
been late. However, the reports have included all the information required by the Bank and the
opinions have been clean. Based on these circumstances, the supervision plan should include a
follow up on the contracting of auditors prior to the year-end closing to ensure the audit reports are
received on time.
Supervision Plan. On the basis of the results of the assessment, the PCU will still require close
monitoring from the financial management side. After effectiveness, an FMS should review the
annual audit reports as well as visit the project on a quarterly basis until all the action plan items,
which in some cases are already being implemented, are completed and operational. A semi-annual
visit thereafter should be sufficient.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring the course of the epidemic and project induced changes in behavior would be
performed through the improved surveillance system and through periodic surveys (such as KAP
surveys). On an annual basis, each participating agency would also have agreed to its output
expectations as part of its annual work plan. Each would then "self-evaluate" in collaboration with
the PCU for a collective mid-year review of progress and an "end-of-year" evaluation of
performance that would serve as input into the preparation of the subsequent annual program.
An independent review of the obtained results would be conducted by experts, contracted after
about 2 years of experience to advise the PCU on modifications of the program's objectives,
management arrangements and costs and financing needs. This exercise would be the basis of a
recommitment to extending the response for a further 3-5 year period.
Phased Implementation Strategy
As the impacts of many proposed project activities, especially those that are directed at changing
behavior and attitudes, is difficult to predict, project activities would be reviewed, added, dropped
and modified as lessons are learned during implementation. Annual progress reviews would
contribute to the use of rolling annual work plans and a mid-term review will be an important
project management tool.
Of particular concern would be St. Kitts/Nevis' ability to introduce and scale up HAART from its
present base. A period of preparation of the necessary infrastructure, human resources and
management platforms would be necessary for this to occur. The project would provide resources to
support this "preparation" with the following progression:
a) Establishing and operating the management structure for HAART, including the National
Council on HIV/AIDS, and a special AIDS management team in the MOH main hospital facility
(JNF Hospital);
b) Initial implementation of key prevention programs cited above (Components A and B); and
c) Completion of infrastructure and human resource preparation for managing HAART, which
would involve:
* Refurbishing and remodeling three health centers (one in Nevis and two in St. Kitts) for VCT,
minor improvements of laboratory and pharmaceutical facilities in two hospitals (JNF and
Alexandra hospitals), the Pogson Hospital and special arrangements for home and hospital care
for HIV/AIDS patients;



16
*  completing arrangements to assure HIV ELISA testing with equipment, staff and training in
laboratory facilities at JNF and Alexandra hospitals and opportunistic diseases testing and CD4
count at JNF hospital, as well as arrangements for collaboration with sub-regional agencies
*  establishing an adequate process for procuring and managing required quantities of ARV drugs;
completing staffing and training for the JNF hospital AIDS management team; and
*  satisfactory updating of protocols for ART as well as the updating of the manual for the proper
handling and disposal of medical waste.
The GOSK, with the advice of the Bank, UNAIDS, PAHO/CAREC would assess its capabilities on
these counts prior to scaling up the number of HAART cases financed by the project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This is an Investment Loan under the Second Phase Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control Adaptable Program Lending (APL) for the Caribbean region. Sector investment loans for
individual countries and programmatic lending with disbursement links to outputs were two
altematives considered and rejected (see PAD of the Caribbean Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Prevention and Control Program for details). As to the technical design of this individual project,
the following project alternatives were considered and rejected.
a) A purely health sector approach. St. Kitts/Nevis would apply the principle that activities of
many government ministries and agencies, and NGOs and community groups, not just of the
Ministry of Health, are needed to mount an effective response to HIV/AIDS. It has adopted the
multi-sectoral strategy.
b) Exclusion of HAART from care and treatment for PLWA. Although as of current, the cost of
HAART remains an issue, the relatively small number of PLWAs in St. Kitts/Nevis and the support
for improvements in the overall health care system available through the project makes the
implementation of ART more feasible. Moreover, the price of ARV drugs is expected to be reduced
further in the near future. HAART implementation will have positive spill over effect in prevention
and care efforts.
c) Decentralized service delivery in treatment and care for PLWA. There has been very little
reported HIV testing, counseling and provision of care offered to AIDS patients by either the public
or the private sector. Given (i) the size of the country, (ii) the complexity of HAART, a centralized
vertical care and treatment regime would be advisable. The project would consolidate the
management of AIDS treatment in MOH/hospital facilities while building alliances with private
sector physicians.
d) An exhaustive range of prevention interventions. The project rejected this approach in favor of
giving priority of the most cost-effective interventions to avoid stretching thin the limited resources
and maximize the impact of the investment on curbing the epidemic.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
The Bank has not lent directly for health related purposes in St. Kitts/Nevis, although funds from
the Disaster Management project are being used to assist in hospital reconstruction following recent
hurricane damage. Activities addressing HIV/AIDS, financed from exterior sources, have been led
principally by PAHO/CAREC.



17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The project adopts the design features that underpin the Multi-country HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control Adaptable Lending Program for the Caribbean region and takes into account lessons that
have proven successful in other countries. These include the following:
* demonstrating a high level of government commitment and providing clear national leadership
for a project, embodied in a new National Council for HIV/AIDS;
* building collaboration networks with NGOs and community groups as a complement to public
sector agencies;
* incorporating other public and private partners in the implementation of the project;
* including the focus on treatment and care as a continuum with advocacy and prevention within
the project;
* providing focus on behavior change of specific groups practicing risky life-styles as a key
element of prevention and control; and
* adopting implementation measures that provide flexibility and responsiveness to the epidemic
as it evolves.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Bank awarded a PHRD Grant to help the St.Kitts/Nevis Government to meet the five criteria
for country participation in the Multi-Country HIV/AlDS Prevention and Control APL. St.
Kitts/Nevis has met all five criteria, including (i) completion of a Strategic Plan for the National
Response to HIV/AIDS, (ii) maintained the Prime Minister's leadership in seeking support to
prepare and implement a HIV/AIDS prevention and control project; (iii) committed multi sectoral
ministries and NGOs to participate in project preparation and implementation; (iv) prepared a solid
management organization for implementing the project; and (v) defined a plan for monitoring,
evaluation and surveillance of the project.
Readiness of National Leadership
The GOSK has led a process of national consultation and has energized wide support for a
HIV/AIDS response. The Prime Minister of ST. Kitts/Nevis has taken a key leadership role in the
Caribbean region as head of the CARICOM Health Committee, making public a level of personal
support for addressing the epidemic. Lastly, GOSK is preparing to institutionalize the response to
the epidemic in a new statutory body, which is expected to have a degree of budgetary and
operational independence from the regular government structure, which will provide the basis for a
sustainable longer-term response. St. Kitts has shown leadership in the Caribbean Partnership
negotiating with drug companies and with the UNAIDS Accelerated Access program.
Programming for Multi-Sectoral Implementation
At present, several ministries have ongoing activities directed at HIV/AIDS prevention, care and
support. A more detailed programming exercise is planned which would impact the 2003 budget.
GOSK is to consider legislation that would establish the configuration of the management and
reporting functions of a new National Council on HIV/AIDS which will convene key stakeholders
in the fight against HIV/AIDS, building on the present AIDS Coordination Unit. However, it would
fall under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, which most stakeholders feel is appropriate.



18
Sustainable Business Arrangements
The project will employ the business practices in general use for public sector tendering and
financial management, which have been adapted in other projects to meet World Bank guidelines. It
will use the same unit of the Ministry of Finance to perform these functions. An Operations Manual
is under preparation that will incorporate these procedures as a guide for all project participants
Monitoring and Evaluation
GOSK through the Ministry of Health and with the assistance of CAREC would launch initial base-
line studies (seroprevalence, and KAP) as well as the design and installation associated with
improving the HIV/AIDS surveillance system.
These arrangements, which follow the recommendations outlined in the Bank-financed Caribbean
Multi Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Program, are expected to be completed by
September, 2002.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Through its participation, the Bank would re-enforce GOSK's adoption of institutional
arrangements for sustaining the HIV/AIDS prevention and control project, and would provide
necessary incremental resources to invest in this development. It would also re-enforce St.
Kitts/Nevis' policy to introduce HAART by assisting to meet requirements in the infrastructure of
the health system for a successful program. The Bank would also strengthen the partnerships that
St. Kitts/Nevis has built with PAHO/CAREC, UNAIDS, OECS/PPS and in the dialogue with
suppliers of ARV drugs.
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
The UWI has estimated that the economic cost of the untreated HIV/AIDS epidemic in terms of
forgone GDP growth in Trinidad and Tobago and Jamaica to be between 1% and 1.5% per year.
These countries have economic structures, average income levels and HIV prevalence similar to the
Federation's economy. St. Kitts and Nevis may, therefore, be at the risk of similar losses. Studies of
larger but less developed economies and low-income countries in Africa place the economic loss at
about 0.2% per year. These economies are much more dependant on agriculture, less dependant on
tourism, and enjoy a larger labor pool than St. Kitts and Nevis. However, even if dissimilar, they
illustrate a minimum level of economic losses that St. Kitts and Nevis might face from unchecked
HIV spread. Applying these estimated rates of loss to St. Kitts and Nevis, assuming year 2001 GDP
of US$ 295 million, and base-case projected growth of 3.9% p.a., the country's foregone economic
gain could range between US$3 million (low loss rate assumption) and US$17 million (high loss
rate assumption) per year by 2004.
2. Financial:
The estimated identifiable cost of the project is US$ 4.5 million (of which US$ 130,000 is
unallocated). The recurrent costs generated by the project are estimated as in Table C, and amount
to US$ 340,000. Of this, approximately US$ 287,000 would be incremental assuming that the
current government staff dedicated to HIV/AIDS work is not increased (which does not at this time
appear to be necessary).
St. Kitts /Nevis experiences between US$ 8.5 and US$ 10.0 million in recurrent expenditures per
year, of which personnel accounts for about 50% and goods and services, 30%. Within these costs,



19
the public sector supply of drugs procured through the OECS Drug Procurement Service, is about
US$ 600,000 per year.
3. Technical:
The technologies for controlling and preventing HIV/AIDS are evolving, but those that are being
considered for the St. Kitts/Nevis response are sufficiently tested to provide a sound basis to
proceed. The project follows best practices in HIV/AIDS interventions, as recommended by
UNAIDS and PAHO/WHO.
A major challenge is to strengthen the St. Kitts/Nevis health system to effectively deliver inter alia,
key aspects of the HIV/AIDS project, notably IEC and expanded access to treatment, including
ART. A full assessment has been done of the technical capacity to absorb H1V/AIDS prevention
and treatment responsibilities and investments, required as part of preparation activities. While
some additional in-country laboratory equipment and reagents, substantial training activities in
clinical and laboratory skills, patient management and follow up of those with HAART have been
included for project financing, St Kitts/Nevis would strengthen their affiliations with sub-regional
agencies; including OECS/PPS and CAREC in order to ensure the technical expertise required for
lab testing, VCT, MTCT, STIs, and HIV/AIDS patient management. Likewise, the project would
provide hardware and software and other information technology and training, in order to ensure an
efficient and effective information system, including encrypted technology to protect confidentiality
of clinical records, second-generation surveillance data and case management information. Ongoing
mentoring in their use would be made available through strengthened sub-regional arrangements.
A specific technical issue is the acquisition of diagnostic technology for HIV/AIDS testing and
patient follow-up in the two islands. For logistical and cost reasons, Nevis and St. Kitts would be
equipped to process ELISA testing, but only St Kitts would be able to do CD4 for follow-up of
AIDS patients under HAART in both islands. Viral load would be processed outside the country
due to its sophisticated equipment, staff skills and costs.
4. Institutional:
St. Kitts/Nevis has had a dynamic and well respected AIDS Coordination Team and Team Leader
for several years. Within the limits of available staffing budgets, this Team has also encouraged
other agencies to undertake HTV prevention and care activities. The challenge will now be to scale
up and sustain this set of relationships, and add additional alliances and partnerships with private
physicians among others. The GOSK is expecting to provide a framework for this movement in the
form of a new National Council for HIV/AIDS. The project itself would assist in establishing the
Council as an effective focus for managing the epidemic and for building its capacity for
management, monitoring and evaluation and financial management. Further public consultations on
the National Council are planned.
Because the project would be multi-sectoral, the participating line ministries would be in charge of
implementing their respective activities included in annual implementation plans agreed with the
PCU/Steering Committee. To contribute to the sustainability of developmental objectives, in the
medium and long term the project will provide technical assistance to ministries on an as-needed
basis, both on clinical processes, surveillance and management information systems and financial
and procurement aspects.
Currently the MOH has a centralized planning, budgeting and decision making with limited
organizational and managerial capacity at hospital and health community service levels. This issue
will be addressed by the project allocating resources through the Sustainable Management
Response Component in HIV/AIDS participating units, to provide technical assistance for the
organizational processes to be implemented in the MOH and reengineering required in other MOH
organizational units, the participating hospitals, laboratories, community health units and MOH



20
head quarters. Management training will be provided by the project to strengthen the capacity to
analyze the STD/HIV/AIDS situation to target vulnerable groups, to improve protocols and clinical
decision-making, and to develop the planning and budgeting skills required for the efficient
allocation and use of resources.
The MIS and the information technology (IT) implemented by the project within the HIV/AIDS
Surveillance sub-component, will provide a robust platform and a WAN for other health
information applications like electronic clinical records, epidemiological surveillance, drugs and
medical supplies inventory control, accounting and financial management, contributing to the
modernization of the health sector.
5. Environmental:         Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
Environmental category: [ ]  A  [x]  B    [ I  C    [ I FT
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this
analysis.
Medical waste management is a minor project issue that will be correctable with project activity.
The small environmental risk posed by project clinical activities can be mitigated through actions
recommended by the Audit of Biomedical Waste Management Practices conducted in the country
with the support of the World Bank financed OECS Solid Waste Management Project. Its major
findings and recommendations are presented in Annex 2-B.
Justification/Rationale for category rating:
MOH would apply the key recommendations of the Audit to mitigate the environmental risk of
poor biomedical waste management by forming a Biomedical Waste Management Team within the
Solid Waste Management Corporation with a designated head to:
a) Coordinate and program the application of the facility-by-facility recommendations of the
Assessment. Funding for small equipment as necessary would be drawn from the project.
b) Review and rationalize, with the assistance of consultants, the legal framework, organization
and management structure of the system according to the Assessment's recommendations and
prepare updated regulations;
c) Prepare documentation describing the functioning and provided technical specifications of the
equipment needed to implement a unified waste segregation, classification, minimization and
disposal system, which could include the acquisition of new incinerator facilities. The costs of the
equipment and facilities could be financed through the project; and
d) Program and deliver updated training and information for health care professionals and other
health care personnel.
Local groups and NGOs consulted: See "Social" below.
e. Resettlement
[x] None
5.2  What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The major findings and specific recommendations of the EMP are adequate. The assessment has
provided a detailed, facility-by-facility statement of improvements that could be undertaken in the
short term with minimal expense. It also provides recommendations which would strengthen the
biomedical waste management arrangements in the country.



21
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: October 24, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft
EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Information for the EA was obtained from meetings with stakeholders and visits to various
representative facilities, including data gathered during meetings, observations and photo-
documentation, review of relevant documents, and responses to follow-up requests of information.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on
the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EMP has provided detailed standards for establishing technically sound biomedical waste
management from collection to final disposal. The project team will monitor the adoption of
biomedical waste management standards and safeguards as part of regular supervision missions.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to project objectives
The social issues involved with HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean regions are relatively well known.
These include stigma and discrimination against HIV/AIDS, gender inequity, role of the church,
family structure, and inter-generational dimensions. These factors can affect HIV transmission
through their influences on sexual behavior, knowledge and attitudes towards HIV/ALDS. Social
issues have been well diagnosed in St. Kitts/Nevis through a << situation and response analysis >>
involving wide participation. The National Response would begin, therefore with an adequate basis
of understanding. The program would also be modified as the social setting changes in response to
the program itself.
Stigma and Discrimination:
This is the glaring issue among all social factors. The project would address this through a
combination of actions:
(i)  identify strategic partners (the media, political, cultural, religious, business and community
leaders) and offer them training through HIV/AIDS sensitization workshops;
(ii) coordinate these partners in lEC/BCC campaigns in the media and the communities;
(iii) assist the government in developing a framework for the protection of the human rights of
PLWA, their families and other vulnerable groups of the population (for PLWA, this
concerns confidentiality, employment, housing, mandatory testing for the purposes of
insurance, immigration, employment, and access to compassionate health care);
(iv)  organize workshops for lawyers and legal aide counselors on such legislation/regulations;
(v)  implement patient exit polls at facilities offering HIV/AIDS services;
(vi) set up complaint bureau and hot-lines where people facing stigma and discrimination can
voice their grievances and seek help; and
(vii) systematically involve PLWA in public information efforts to render the epidemic visible and
"humanize" the disease.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
During the formulation of the response, consultation was conducted with focus groups: government
officials responsible for tourism, youth and sport, AIDS coordination, health planning, substance
abuse program, social services; the media, the Christian Council, Chamber of Commerce, Medical



22
Association, PLWAs (FACTT), Carnival Committee/Cultruama Committee; youth groups; high
school students; women in industrial settings; prisoners; and professional women. In addition,
specialized epidemiological consultations have been conducted between CAREC and legislators
and government and with the medical community.
The table below summaries how key stakeholders will participate in the implementation of project
activities:
Stakeholders                              Participation in the program
High-risk groups                          Volunteers from  high-risk  groups will be
recruited to act as facilitators as well as peer
educators for interventions programs.
PLWA                                      Will participate through representation in the
National Council on AIDS
Sector organizations                      Private and public enterprises/organizations will
participate  in  the    development   and
implementation of sector-specific HIV/AlDS
activities through the "focal points "
NGOs, CBOs, civil society, church         Can participate as sub-contracting agencies for
the implementation of HIV/AIDS activities
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborations with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
First, in the preparation of the National Strategic Plan, as mentioned above, a series of consultation
has been underway with NGOs and civil society to discuss the draft plan. Second, representatives of
NGOs and civil society will be included in the National Council on AIDS. Third, NGOs and CBOs
can be involved as implementing agencies, especially in prevention, advocacy, and care and support
activities. Mechanisms for NGOs and CBOs to involve in implementation will be spelled out in the
operational manual of the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
In addition to direct involvement of key Government Ministries (Financing, Health and others),
NGOs and civil society groups will be represented in the NCHA. They will be involved in the
design, implementation and monitoring of the project activities.
7. Participatory Approach:
a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. High risk groups such as HIVIAIDS pregnant
women, adolescents and young adults, MSM, CSW, prisoners, military, commercial drivers and tourism
workers, would be the primary beneficiaries of the project. However, given the fact that HIV/AIDS is an
epidemic without selectivity, all populations groups would be considered vulnerable. Many of them would
participate actively in project activities, such as peer education, role-playing, condom distribution, etc.
b) Other key stakeholders. Key Caribbean institutions supporting HIV/AIDS prevention and control
include CARICOM, OECS, OECS/PPS, PAHO/CAREC, and ECDB. Locally, the Chamber of Industry and
Commerce, the Medical association, the Carnival Committee/Culturama Committee and the Christian
Council are important stakeholders in HIV/AIDS prevention and control efforts.



23
8. Checklist of Bank Policies
Safeguard Policies (check applicable items):
Policy,
X      Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)
Forestry (OP 4.36)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)
b. Business Policies (check applicable items):
Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)
Cost sharing above country 3-yr average (OP/BP/GP 6.30)
Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP/GP/BP 12.10)
Financial management (OP/BP 10.02)
X       Involvement of NGO's (GP 14.70)
Other (provide necessary details)
Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies:
Based on the results of the EMP, as noted above, project components include support to strengthen
the biomedical waste management system in public health facilities, including investments in
equipment, training, and technical assistance.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Achieving project sustainability would eventually be an outcome of the development of a sound
structure of the NCHA. Once formed, the NCHA would continue to draw on the Ministry of
Finance on financial and administrative matters and the Ministry of Health on technical matters
thus providing a sustainable framework for the Response. Mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS prevention
and control actions within the regular work programs of relevant government agencies would be re-
enforced through the GOSK budget process. Results of the assessment on longer-term financial
sustainability of the policy for ART have been very positive (see Annex 4).



24
2. Critical Risks:
Risk                     Risk Rating   Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Erosion of GOSK commitment to           M            Continue policy dialogue
HIV/AIDS control                                        Build capacity for NGOs,
Decline in commitment to multicultural  M            CBOs, ministries
approach
Sustainability of HAART not achieved    S
Governance and accountability weak      S
From Components to Outputs
Slow and inadequate counterpart financing  S
Inconsistent staffing
Inability to address stigma and         N
discrimination towards PLWAs               M
Overall Risk Rating: M                 I_I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
While there is general understanding of the HIV/AIDS epidemic as it relates to sexual activities,
many segments of St Kitts/Nevis society are reluctant to speak about the topic openly. MSM is not
widely recognized. The existence of commercial sex workers is not admitted, as a denial
mechanism to protect society's prestige and tourism image. Others are concerned with evidences of
the growing sex industry and its impact on younger generations. Broadening the public dialogue on
the roots of STIs and HIV/AIDS will lead to periodic clashes of views. The project would address
this issue by supporting meetings, and seminars to understand and discuss evidence and ways to
prevent further expansion of this issue.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
The Borrower would have appointed the PCU staff acceptable to the Bank, including the Steering
Committee; developed the Annual Implementation Plan for the first year accompanied by a
procurement plan; and approved the Operations Manual.
Financial Management:
Based on this assessment, we recommend the following conditions:
For effectiveness: (i) open Special Account in comrnercial bank acceptable to the Bank, with an
initial deposit of fifty-five thousand Dollars (USD55,000) equivalent, (ii) appointment of the
Supervision Accountant acceptable to the Bank, and (iii) finalization and adoption of the
Operations Manual.
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01 "Standard" wording: audit reports to be furnished to IBRD no later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year.
Section 4.02 "Standard" wording: the due date for the first FMRs is 45 days after the end of the
quarter in which effectiveness takes place.



25
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. The GOSK has prepared the Annual Implementation Plan for the first year accompanied by a
procurement plan and the preparation of procurement documents would start under a consultant
contract soon. The Draft Operations Manual has been prepared with Bank assistance.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
1. The project is expected to comply with all applicable Bank policies.
Patricio Marquez, Team Lea1er              Ana-Mrector
Or alia  alantzo  ulos, C  Director



26
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
St. Kitts/Nevis HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Hierarchy of Objectives             Key Performance Indicators                Monitoring and
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:                              Sector / Country Reports:
Reduction in poverty
Reducing vulnerability and
risk to economic and social
development through
improved health of the
population
Project Development         Impact Indicators:                              Project Reports:
Objective:                                                                  Periodic epidemiological
reports; nationally and
Reduce the mortality and    a) Number of reported HIV+ cases (50% reduction  regionally
morbidity attributed to     expected by end of the project.)
HIV/AIDS                    b) % of HIV children born from HIV/AIDS mothers
(50% reduction expected by end of the project)
Reduce the impact of        c) Deaths due to AIDS (25% reduction expected by
HIV/AIDS on individuals,    end of the project)
families and the community  d) Life expectancy of PLWAs (2-3 years increase at  Anecdotal evidence and
the end of the project)                         attitude surveys (mid term
Consolidate sustainable     e) Satisfaction of HIV/AIDS patients and their  and at project completion)
organizational and institutional  families with homne and community care available  KAP surveys
framework for managing
HIV/AIDS                                                                    Budget documentation,
management information
systems



27
Outcomes from each          Outcome Indicators:                            Project Reports:
component:                                                                 Epidemiological reports
1. Advocacy and Behavior       Legislation and regulatory reform protecting  KAP surveys
Change: reducing stigma and  PLWAs human and civil rights instituted (Advocacy
discrimination against      performance)
PLWAs; IEC on safe and          Positive anecdotal evidence and attitudinal
healthy sexual behaviors;   surveys related to PLWAs and their organizations
supportive environment for  (Advocacy performance)
PLWAs; IEC on condom use,       Acceptance of condom use, adolescent sex
sex education, peer education,  education, VCT, MTCT and STIs clinics
VCT, MTCT, STIs.
2. Prevention: Peer risk     % males and females 15+ years old using condoms
education; school sex       (50% expected at end of the project)
education; condom distribution  Average age of first sexual intercourse in males and
and use; improving          females (I-year increase by end of the project)  HIV/AIDS case
management and control of     % males 15+ years old with more than one sex  management reports
STIs; VCT; MTCT             partner last year (30% reduction by project end)
management; blood bank        % females 15+ years old with more than one sex  KAP surveys
quality control             partner last year (50% reduction by project end)
% of HIV/AIDS transmitted by blood transfusion in  Epidemiological reports
the federation (0% throughout the project life)
% voluntary testing and counseling (50% increase at
end of the project)
% of HIV+ newborns from HIV+ mothers (50%
reduction expected at en of project)
Anecdotal feedback
% of reported AIDS patients under ART (85% at the
end of the project)                            Parliamentary records
3. Treatment, care and support:  % opportunistic infections among PLWAs (60%
access to ARV drug treatment  reduction by end of project)
of HIV/AIDS patients; home   Average time at work for HIV/AIDS patients
and community care of         % of PLWAs discriminated in public and       Project supported
PLWAs                       workplaces, and among caregivers (70% reduction  information system reports
expected by end of the project);
4. Surveillance. Epidemiolocv   Periodic "second generation" KAP survey results
and Research: enhanced      available for monitoring, evaluation and Management
quality and timelines of    Performance
information on the epidemic to  Available quarterly reports on tracking the course
improve response            of the epidemic, detailed by "at risk" groups
management, and the         (Surveillance System performance)               Project periodic
information needed by           Case-by-case information on PLWAs for       management reports
physicians to improve the level  physicians and caregivers coded to preserve
of care for the infected while  confidentiality (Surveillance System performance)  GOSK budget documents
providing full confidentiality
for patients
Process Indicators
5. Sustainable Management:     HIV/AIDS program participation by multi-sectoral
effective project management  partners and agencies mainstreamed (Management
ensuring multi-sectoral     Performance)
participation, sustained       Timeliness of programming and implementation,
resource allocation, timely  and partnerships established, (Institutional
implementation and improved  performance).
monitoring and evaluation and  Indicators of timely provision of inputs
accountability              (equipment, reagents, drugs, transport, training)



28
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each component)            Project Reports:
components:
Project management reports
I . Advocacy and Behavior   US$505,000 for consultant and legal services,
Change                      operating expenses in support of PLWAs advocacy  Audits
groups, IEC campaigns on HIV/AIDS awareness, sex
education an risk reduction of HIV infection.  Annual work programs and
implementation reports
2. Prevention               US$ 1,131,41 1 for consultants, staff training,
audiovisual equipment and educational materials,
condoms, testing and treatment for STIs, testing for
VCT and drugs for preventing MTCT, blood supply
protection, conventional STIs Treatment and control,
and improvement of bio-medical waste treatment and
handling.
3. Treatment. Care and
Support                     US$ 1,918,000 for reconstructing agreed health
services, adapting laboratories, equipment, pharmacy,
in-country and out-of-country testing, and clinical
services for introducing public sector provision of
ART; consultant services and training for ART and
community home care; ARV drugs for HIV/AIDS
patient care
4. Surveillance. Detection and
Research                    US$ 545,250 for hardware and software adaptation
LAN/WAN installation costs, IT technical support,
staff training, lab and clinical records, and base line
and periodic follow-up KAP surveys
5. Sustainable Management
US$ 295,750 for operating costs, office and logistical
support, training and consultant services, in-country
and overseas travel related to project management and
consultation processes; establishment of the Nevis
Implementation Comrnittee



29
Annex 2
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Detailed Project Description
The Government has prepared a Strategic Plan for the National Response to HIV/AIDS 2001 -
2005 with the goals of reducing the spread of HIV infections and the impact of HIV/AIDS on
individuals, families and communities. The Plan identifies the five priority areas for intervention: (i)
Prevention; (ii) Treatment, Care and Support; (iii) Advocacy; (iv) Surveillance, Epidemiology and
Research; and (v) Program Coordination and management. The key strategies to achieve these goals
are: effective culturally sensitive IEC; improved STD clinical management; increased condom
promotion and access for prevention of STI and HIV; treatment, care and support of PLWA to
reduce stigma and discrimination and to improve quality of life; and increased opportunity and
acceptability of VCT.
The five priority areas of the St.KittstNevis Strategic Plan have been translated into the following
five main project components:
A.     Advocacy and Behavior Change (US$ 0.51M)
Two main fronts of activities would be developed for improving living conditions of PLWAS and
for promoting safe sex practices:
Advocacy.  The Project would assist the government to create a favorable legal and policy
environment that protects the rights of PLWA. This work would begin as part of project preparation,
including identification of strategic partners (media, local celebrities, religious, business and
community leaders) to mobilize their support in public positive information campaigns against
stigma and mobilization. PLWA will be involved in these advocacy activities. Consultants for
drafting legislation to protect human and civil rights of HIV/AIDS patients would be financed under
the project, as well as the required lobbying in the Parliament. Also, A complaint hotline could be
established as a venue for PLWA to voice their concerns of discrimination and seek help. PLWA
will be empowered to get involved in mass media and information campaigns and work for change
as policy advocates
Information Education and Communication - IEC. Aims at maintaining people's awareness of
HIV/AIDS, promote behavior changes for safe sex practices and risk reduction. These interventions
would be designed to cover the general population and target groups served with preventive
programs to increase demand for such services (see below). Instruments for IEC diffusion would be
mass media, radio, printed materials, peer to peer education, recreational activities and other group
educational activities. Experts to design and produce IEC materials and campaign implementation
(in consultation with stakeholders) would be financed under the project. A critical activity to choose
further investments in IEC is evaluating initial IEC campaigns in terms of desired results at
affordable costs.
B.     Prevention (US$ 1.13M)
Identifying high-risk groups. Little is known about high-risk groups in St. Kitts and Nevis, such as
CSW, MSM, migrant workers, hotel and tourism workers, out of school youths. For this reason, a
rapid mapping exercise will be conducted under this component of the project to identify high-risk
groups in the federation (e.g. estimates of their numbers, their meeting places, informal networks
among them). This exercise would be carried out with the participation of NGOs, CBOs and
recruited members of high-risk groups themselves. This exercise will also estimate the needs for
HIV/AIDS interventions among them as well as effective means to deliver those services to them.



30
Delivering HIV/AIDS prevention services to high-risk groups: Effective interventions such as
behavior change communication, VCT, condoms and STI management will be then delivered to high
risk groups through outreach programs. Central to such outreach programs are peer educators
recruited from high risk groups and trained to disseminate information on safe sex, distribute
condom supplies among their peers, organize skill building workshops (e.g., condom negotiation
skills for CSW) and conduct referrals to other HIV/AIDS services. Incentives will be developed for
peer educators to increase their efforts.
Activities targeting high risk groups will be largely carried out by NGOs and CBOs, which are often
more effective in reaching out to marginalized groups. A strong emphasis will be laid on canvassing
adolescent and youth groups (both in and out of school) for educational and preventive activities.
In view of the critical role that private practitioners play in St. Kitts/Nevis in confidential testing and
treatment of HIV/AlDS and STIs, the project would call on them to perform VCT, MTCT and STIs
management according to project protocols. In retribution, the project would provide refresher
courses, condom supplies, EEC materials, STI testing and treatment free of charge for their patients.
Prevention interventions for the general population:
A strong emphasis will be laid on youths in prevention efforts. They would include: (i) national and
local mass media information campaigns; (ii) confidential VCT services available at selected health
centers; (iii) increased condom availability through both traditional and non-traditional outlets; (iv)
improved diagnostic capacity and availability of STI drugs at health centers, and (v) providing
screening at least to 80% of pregnant women who seek anti-natal services at health centers. MTCT
management would be provided to those HIV+ tested.
Preventive Services:
a) Condom Social Marketing and Distribution. The project would support social marketing
strategies to popularize the use of condom and increase their availability at traditional (e.g.
pharmacies, clinics, vending machines) and non-traditional outlets (hotels, motels, restaurants,
entertainment and other public places). Free distribution during festivals and carnival, and simple
and clear graphics on how to use condoms for general distribution would be financed under the
project. Legislation to make condoms available and visible in motel and hotel rooms would be
pursued.
b) Prevention and Control of STIs. STI control services would be more youth-friendly as well as
more accessible to high-risk groups by increasing confidentiality. Training, education and re-
orientation of STIs clinical services to make the more youth-friendly would be carried out for the
staff at health centers and for private doctors. The project would finance the pre-packed STI therapy
for implementing the syndromes management approach, which has been highly successful in many
countries. This pre-packed therapy would be provided to public and private patients at subsidized
prices. IEC material on STIs prevention and treatment would be produced and distributed throughout
health facilities, private doctors' offices and selected public places.
c) Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission -MTCT. MTCT is the most significant source of
HIV infection in children below 10 years of age. The project would assist the MOH in
implementing its MTCT initiative4. Its strategies are (i) primary prevention of HIV infection among
partners to be; (ii) prevention of unwanted pregnancies in HIV infected women; and (iii) prevention
of HIV transmission from HIV infected women to their infants. The MOH has decided to bestow the
management of the MTCT program to the office of the Director of Community Health services.
MTCT would be fully integrated into the Maternal and Child Health Program carried out through the
public health care network.
4 Ministry of Health and Environment. St.Kitts and Nevis. Prevention of Mother to
Child Transmission of HIV. June 2001- 2003. (Draft).



31
The MOH MTCT would carry out a series of activities to achieve the following results:
(i)   Integration of HIV/AIDS Education in the Health and family Life Curriculum;
(ii)  National capacity to provide VCT to all pregnant women and their partners;
(iii) Integration of MTCT into the MCH services;
(iv)  Social support services to HIV infected women, their infants and partners;
(v)   MOH capacity for training and technical support in MTCT.
The project would finance technical assistance for production and use of MTCT guidelines and
clinical protocol, training health care workers and private doctors in MTCT, supporting VCT at
antenatal clinics, and providing HIV-positive pregnant women and their offspring with Nevirapine.
d) Strengthening Voluntary Counseling and Testing- VCT. Many studies of VCT effectiveness
reveal important benefits related to risk reduction due to positive behavioral change, improved
access to appropriate services of PLWAs, and understanding and coping with a seropositive result.
VCT is most successful when couples attend together. VCT also help to prevent violence,
abandonment and break-up of relationships because of a HIV positive result.
VCT would aim at:
(i) Preventing acquisition by HIV- from HIV+ or untested partner and preventing
transmission from HIV+ to negative partners and from HIV+ mothers to children.
(ii) Early and appropriate uptake of service for HIV+ and HIV- tested.
(iii) Supporting human rights and challenging stigma. And
(iv) Counseling for adherence to ART and coping with adverse effects.
The project would support (i) upgrading the physical capacity of selected public clinics to perform
VCT, (ii) training nurses, counselors and doctors (including private doctors), equipment and goods,
consultant services, publication of VCT materials, condoms and drugs required to implement these
activities.
e) Strengthening blood bank quality control: In addition to ensuring HIV testing to 100% of donated
blood, the project would support Blood banks to provide VCT to donors.
Project financing would cover operating costs, equipment and goods, consultant services, training
services for staff, publications, condoms and drugs. Selected prevention activities executed by line
ministries, NGOs, CBOs, and the private sector could be financed by the project through grants or
contracting arrangements.
f) Improved Management of Bio-medical Wastes. Although the size and type of services provided by
the project do not pose threat to health personnel, patients, or the community, the project would
finance the strengthening of the biomedical waste management system in public health facilities,
including equipment, training, technical assistance and new facilities for the treatment and disposal
of bio-medical wastes (see Annex 2-b)
C. Improving Access to Treatment, Care and Support for PLWA (US$ 1.92M)
The project would support capacity strengthening and upgrading current services available for
introducing HAART, care and support for PLWA.
Strengthening Health Facilities/Laboratory Capacity. To implement HAART, the health care
delivery network, including the reconstruction of Pogson Health Facility at Sandy Point, and the
laboratory system in the country would need to be strengthened to perform basic tests such as CD-4
count. The project would support the improvement of the health facilities to provide reliable primary
and tertiary response and the laboratory capacity for HIV screening and testing. Given the limited



32
number of tests and high costs of equipment and maintenance required for HAART, viral load tests
would be performed in CAREC and other out-of-country facilities when needed, under project
financing.
Pharmacy Strengthening. This is required to support the introduction of HAART. Timely and
permanent supply of ARV is critical to ensure successful treatment of HIV/AIDS. The project would
support St. Kitts/Nevis participation in the OECS central drug procurement system to ensure
efficient and effective selection, procurement, distribution and use of ARV drugs.
Home and Community-Based Care for PLWA. Home and community-based care will be given to
those chronically ill or at the terminal stage of illness. This would include (i) training community
health workers and NGOs in care and support; (ii) providing home care and support through visits
(by community health workers, NGOs, CBOs, churches) to PLWA, (iii) strengthening the social
support network for PLWA (e.g. forming support groups), (iv) establishing hospice or half-way care
for PLWA.
NGOs and CBOs would be key in providing home-based and community care and support for
PLWHA. To help such organizations deliver such services, the project would provide them with
technical assistance, financial resources (through grants or contracts) and capacity building.
Management of Opportunistic Infections and Palliative Care. This would involve disseminating
clinical protocols for HIV/AIDS treatment and care (including the management of common OI, TB),
training health workers in HIV/AIDS treatment and care, assuring the availability of basic drugs for
01.
Introducing HAART. This would involve adopting "WHO Antiretroviral Guidelines for
Developing Countries", establishing the HAART protocol, training health workers in HAART, and
assuring the timely selection, procurement, distribution and use of ARV. The OECS/PPS would
enter into agreements with GOSK to execute the procurement for ARV and also for providing
technical assistance in selection and use of ARV, including first line ARV clinical protocols, training
in HAART therapy, monitoring and follow up of patients, and management of adverse effects.
D. Surveillance, Epidemiology and Research (US$ 0.55M)
This component aims to improve the country's capacity to track the epidemic as well as strengthen
the information base for better decision-making. It would include:
a) Strengthening the country's capacity in Epidemiology: The project would provide a scholarship
to train a epidemiologist. As there is no formally trained epidemiologist in St. Kitts and Nevis so far,
this would help improving the country's capacity in disease surveillance in general and HIV/AIDS
tracking in particular.
b) Implementing a second-generation surveillance system: The project would support the
implementation of a second-generation HIV/A1DS surveillance system, which monitors both HIV
infection and risk behaviors to inform the trends of the epidemic.
c) Setting up an integrated, computerized health information system: This system will not only
benefit HIV/AIDS/STI surveillance and patient tracking but also upgrade the way St. Kitts and
Nevis manages medical information (e.g., improving confidentiality of medical records, enabling
cross reference analysis from multiple databases, supporting decision making in case management).
d) Building capacity for monitoring and evaluation of program activities as well as operational
research: Activities would include: (i) establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system with
quantifiable indicators, (ii) training relevant staff in monitoring and evaluation, (iii) conducting
baseline, mid-term and end-of-project surveys.



33
The Project would support the MOH and other participating government agencies in developing and
strengthening the capacity to analyze the health situation in general and the STD/HIV/AIDS
situation in particular for resource allocation and decision making. Specifically, the project would
finance technical assistance, equipment, test kits, medical and lab supplies, and dissemination of
information, training and software needed for the following activities:
(i) Risk behavior and sexual practices Surveys: Design and implementation of standardized
protocols, databases and software applications to carry out, and analyze surveys on risk behavior and
sexual practices. The information obtained would be comparable to CAREC inventory of sexual
behavior studies conducted in its 21 member countries since 1990.Other key behavioral indicators
and Seroprevalence information would also be analyzed. The results of the initial survey would be
the base line needed to measure progress in the implementation of the Strategic Plan and the Bank
financed project. These indicators would be monitored through behavioral surveillance at regular
intervals to evaluate Project and Plan outcomes and impact.
(ii) The MOH MTCT Prevention Initiative would be strengthened with protocols, databases and
applications, guidelines and sampling criteria for the seroprevalence surveys in antenatal and family
planning clinics.
(iii) Blood Bank support: Development and implementation of a Donor Questionnaire Protocol and
database.
(iv) Anonymous sentinel surveillance: In prison population in coordination with the Police
Department and other participating agencies.
(v) Research: Specific research issues on HIV/AIDS Epidemiology, behavioral changes, clinical
and community management of HIV/AIDS, and cost effectiveness of interventions would be
identified, and research proposals studies would be examined for possible financing.
UNAIDS and other Agencies could assist the government through the Project, providing technical
support for strengthening the STD/HIV/AIDS surveillance system, including development of
protocols, programming and execution of surveys, and training of staff in Sero-surveillance,
behavioral surveys, NGO support and research.
STD/HIV/AIDS Information System (IS) and Clinical Management Information System (MIS)
The present mix of manual and automated information system for patient case notification would
benefit substantially when fully automated through a modular and incremental approach. The
integrated IS and MIS system would: i) protect confidentiality of medical records and patient privacy
through encrypted technology; ii) improve the quality of information allowing for cross reference
analysis from multiple databases; and iii) support decision making in case management particularly
for ART, by providing secured online real time clinical information. Implementation would be
scheduled in stages reaching full-scale operation by the end of the third year of the project. This will
allow for training all health providers in the adoption of information technology in patient care, at
JNF-GH, Alexandra Hospital and District and Health Centers. It would also allow the incorporation
of new protocols and reengineering processes required by ART and the second generation
STD/HIV/AIDS Surveillance System.
The Integrated system would provide decentralized data entry, processing and access to information
at the point of delivery of care (Hospitals and Health Centers). It would also coordinate electronic
data transfer protocols between private physicians and labs, and with MOH's centralized health
information system with large data storage capabilities and secured virtual private network (VPN)
for the protection of patient's confidentiality. The applications should be developed and integrated in
stages, as follows:
a) Development of a database and evaluation and monitoring application for processing, retrieval
and analysis of the HIV/AIDS case notification form.



34
b) Development and programming of interfaces for the integration of HIV/Case Notification with
existing applications and databases including PHLIS, COMDIS, MORTBASE and others in
development in the MOH as the Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages.
c) Selection, parameterization and implementation of STD/HIV/AIDS clinical MIS to support case
management and clinical decision making from applications available in the market. Laboratory and
blood bank test processing modules would interface through the Internet, the MOH's intranet or with
dial-up connections with the STD/HIV/AIDS information system operated by the HIU, to notify
HIV cases on line.
The case-based MIS module should provide real time information required to activate surveillance
mechanisms for early diagnosis and treatment such as: MTCT prevention; physician access to online
diagnostic and lab testing on opportunistic infections; CD4, viral load, applied history and date
sensitive treatment; non compliance alert, up to date information on drug dispensation, online
therapeutic protocols, drug utilization and adverse effects help. To protect patient's privacy rights as
well as the integrity and confidentiality of the electronic medical records, the application should
include encrypting technology and double key facilities, restricting access to name to authorized
personnel only.
Information Technolong Platform:
Hardware, software, training, technical support and operation and maintenance for the Information
Technology (IT) platform needed to operate the surveillance information system and the HIV/AIDS
clinical MIS was reviewed during project preparation. Key stakeholders were consulted including
the CMO, the Chief of Community Health Services, Laboratory and Hospital Staff and the Chief of
Health Information Units (HIU) at HQ and Nevis.
For reducing underreporting and stigmatization, high priority was given to encrypted security via
Internet access to private providers. The HlU/MOH has already initiated the training of about 35
nurses and administrative staff in the use of computers and Windows and office environments.
The full-scale operation of the STIJHIV/AIDS surveillance system and the Clinical MIS for case
management, would require to add, replace or upgrade some of the current workstations (about 33
stand alone PCs). It would acquire and install servers, office and operational applications,
communication equipment and local area networks (LAN) to be linked via Internet with existing
fiber optic cable infrastructure, or through a wide area network (WAN) as indicated in the following
table5.
The project will provide technical assistance for the assessment of existing PCs and software and the
definition of needs and specification of workstations, servers, optical CD writers, printers, scanners,
videoconference equipment, emergency energy supply (UPS), communications and telephony and
other peripheral equipment required. Server applications and the server database should be located in
an area with restricted access and monitoring system. The contracted consultants would recommend
required works. The MOH's Intranet should be protected with virtuat private network (PVN)
application to assure proper encryption, restricted access and confidentiality of patient's electronic
medical records.
5 The works at the new JNF-GH and lab provide the conduits required to install
structured cabling for a Local Area Network (LAN), including underground pipes
for optic fiber links among Lab, Wards and Server center. The new emergency and
imaging centers, lab and wards being remodeled at the Alexandra Hospital in Nevis
will be wiring ready. There are provisions also for alternate energy supply system
(UPS) wiring. The new setting will allow with the proper telephony system to
implement the data, voice and video local area networks (LAN) in the two
hospitals.



35
The MIS and the IT to be implemented by the project would develop the IT operating capacity of the
MOH, with a robust platform and a wide area network (WAN) linking St. Kitts and Nevis. Other
health information applications would be included like electronic clinical records, surveillance,
drugs and medical supplies inventory control, accounting and financial management contributing to
the modernization of the health sector.
, ,-8  -.    ' . i -; ___tv r  . _ __ .,j . '- ~.6 viLANj .1 oice. data,
-MO-_  -- - B  --- SITE~ -M- ;           SERVERS -Siailons    Comrmunicafions
MOH - Headquarters
Health Information Unit                       -         -
St. Kitts Office                             2         2            1
Nevis Office                                 -         2 
Administration Building - Nevis               1         2
Joseph N. France General Hospital             2                    _ 1
Gyneco-Obstetrics Nurse Stations                       2
Internal Medicine Nurse Stations                       2
Pediatrics Nurse Stations                              2
ICU Nurse Stations                                     1
Lab Work Stations :(1)HIV/AIDS-PHLIS; (1) Lab
Chief;  (1)  Lab.  Registration  Dept.;  (I)
Microbiology.                                           4
Blood Bank Work stations                               I
Demographic Registry Unit                              3
Pharmacy                                               2
Mary Charles Hospital                         1         4            1
Alexandra Hospital - Nevis                    2        12            1
17 Health Centers (St. Kitts: 2 (Newton, Bastille
& Basseterre) and 8 stand alone; Nevis: 2
Charles Town and 5 stand alone)                        21
TOTAL                                        8         60            5
The project would provide system design, adaptation of available software and procurement of
hardware, installation, provision of IT support and the training for practitioners, laboratory staff and
MOH researchers required to use the system. Project resources would finance the requisite
consultant services, physical infrastructure, goods and training services required to establish the
system and contribute to operating costs.
The project would support second-generation surveillance that monitors both HIV infection and risk
behaviors to inform the trends of the epidemic. A monitoring and evaluation system will be put in
place with quantifiable indicators.
E. Sustainable Management Response (US$0.30M)
This component aims to improve the institutional capacity of key stakeholders (government
agencies, civil society, and private sector) to plan and execute HIV/A1DS activities in the country.
The GOSK is considering specific legislation for the long-term sustainability of the National
Response, which includes the formal organization of the National Council on HIV/AIDS - NCHA.
As currently planned, the membership of this Council would be appointed by the Cabinet from
senior government officials in charge of "focal points" in key ministers for the multi-sectoral
response and from the private sector organizations involved in addressing social and economic
issues in the country. Private organizations, NGOs and CBOs dealing with HIV/AIDS prevention
and control activities, PLWAS, and concerned citizens would represent the private sector. The main



36
functions of this Council are to advocate legislation for protecting human and civil rights of
PLWAS, make policy recommendations concerning HIV/AIDS, and mobilize society and resources
to prevent and control HIV/AIDS in the country. This Council would start its functions on an interim
basis, while approval of the legislation by the Parliament takes place, so that it would not hinder
initiation of project implementation. Thus, its final organization and operation would be considered
as an output of the project for ensuring implementation of both, the project and the National
Strategic Plan for HAIV/AIDS. The Council would report through the Cabinet to the Prime Minister.
Non civil service members may be remunerated. The Health Ministry of Nevis would also be a
member. The project would support the work of forming this institution and cover its initial
operating costs.
Project Implementation Support:
Project resources would also be available to support short-term implementation arrangements as
follows:
Project Coordination Unit- PCU-: The implementation of the project would be assigned to a PCU,
as a virtual unit under the authority of the Ministry of Finance, Development and Planning (MOF).
The PCU would be headed by a Project Coordinator, who would report on administrative and
technical matters to the Ministers of MOF and MOH and through them to Cabinet, and would
provide the NCHA with all relevant information concerning project execution and its results to
permit it to provide adequate guidance to the Government and the public on the implementation of
the National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS. The PCU would be staffed with: a) the staff members
from the MOF in charge of financial management activities for projects under World Bank
financing, including procurement, disbursement, contracting, accounting, and reporting; and b) staff
members from the MOH in charge of various technical aspects of the project including the
Community Health Services Unit, the Health Information Unit, and the Chief Medical Officer's
staff. Under the leadership of the Project Coordinator, the daily work of the PCU would be
coordinated by a PCU Steering Committee formed with one (technical) representative from the
PCU/MOH staff, one (administrative/financial) representative from the PCU/MOF staff and the
Permanent Secretary of MOH. The PCU Steering Committee would review activities programmed
for implementing the annual work program and would make decisions in support of project
implementation, based on the Operations Manual. It would meet initially on a weekly basis and then
as needed.
Ministry and Agency "Focal Points": In each participating Ministry and Government Agency
there would be a small office with one or two staff members responsible for liaisons between its
Ministry or Agency and the PCU/ Steering Committee. These "focal points" would organize and
manage specific funding and activities related to HIV/A1DS activities developed by their Ministries
for their constituencies (target groups), and would maintain close coordination with the PCU for
technical, financial and administrative support as well as programming, follow up, and evaluation.
Nevis HIV/AIDS Committee: This Committee, currently in operation, would be equivalent to a
"focal point" for the purposes of liaisons with the PCU, but would be directly dependent from the
Nevis Minister of Health.
NGOs, CBOs and other private Agencies: These organizations would enter into agreements and
contracts with the PCU for developing programs and activities related to HIV/AIDS target groups.
The PCU would provide technical support and supervise the execution of grants/contracts agreed
upon with these organizations.



37
PRIME MINISTER
CABINET
NATIONAL COUNCIL ON
RtIV/AIDS
__________.-  Line Ministries focal points,
NGOs, CBOs and other private
Agencies
PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT
NEVIS HIV/AIDS              Project Coordinator
COMMIITEE
Steering Comnmittee
MOH Permanent Secretary
MOP member MOH member
MOF Branch     MOH Branch
Unit Manager  Comm. Hlth. Unit
Administrator  Health.Info. Unit
Accountant     Chief Med. Office
The project would be implemented following annual work programs according to a calendar that
mirrors the preparation of the Government's annual budget. They would be designed to account for
the results obtained in the prior year's work, the further refinement of needs assessed in vulnerable
groups, and new opportunities and knowledge. The project Operations Manual would contain
guidelines for annual work program preparation and implementation and would be a condition for
effectiveness.
Financial Management and Procurement (see also Annex 6)
Accounting and financial management for the project would be centralized in the Unit of MOF in
charge of managing other Bank financed projects (MOF branch of the PCU), following normal
Government procedures. Each participating agency would maintain its own records of government
budget expenditures. The MOF branch would compile a set of monthly-consolidated accounts for the
program itself from line ministry submissions. The MOF branch would also be the repository for all
other project recording, accounting and reporting. This procedure would be facilitated by the GOSK
identifying HIV/AIDS actions as a "program" in the budget, and apply a standardized budgeting
nomenclature and coding of categories of expenditures across all agencies.
Staffing to meet the Council's financial management responsibilities may be secured through the
Ministry of Finance or through the hiring of permanent in-house staff, depending on the volume of
activity that is required.
Procurement would be managed on the basis of annual procurement plans that would correspond to
the annual work program. The Bank would approve both the annual work program and the
corresponding procurement plan.
St. Kitts/Nevis participates in the central OECS Pharmaceutical Procurement Service -OECS/PPS-to
obtain all drugs and medical supplies for the public sector health services. Drugs are typically
procured to satisfy "National Formularies" (lists of types and quantities of various name brand
and/or generic drugs needed for the year). These needs are pooled across the OECS countries, and
prices for the range of drugs are obtained through offers from regional wholesale suppliers that



38
represent manufacturers. Delivery contracts are awarded on the basis of the lowest price for a
specified quantity to be delivered to each country throughout the year. An assessment of this system
was made to verify its conformity with World Bank guidelines for procuring drugs and medicines.
When St. Kitts/Nevis is ready to begin ART, first line ARV for developing countries would be
selected following WHO Guidelines; then they would be included in its National Formulary and
procured through the OECS/PPS, subject to an assessment of acceptability of that system. ARV
drugs would be procured from suppliers according to registered brand names and generics, at prices
that are being negotiated in various form with manufacturers6, and would be proposed to the Bank
(when loan proceeds are to be used to finance the purchase) as "sole source" procurement.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of SOEs and Financial Management Reports (FMR)
would be used for reporting, managed by the PCU. Funding from the federal budget and the Nevis
Island Administration would be drawn by participating agencies according to the procedures now in
place. Funding by loan proceeds would pass from a special account held in a commercial bank, to
the PCU, which would maintain its own current account for expenditures. GOSK counterpart
financing would also pass to the PCU account on a quarterly basis to match expected outlays.
Retroactive financing for expenditures up to 10% of the loan from the date of appraisal is being
proposed.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring the course of the epidemic and project induced changes in behavior would be performed
through the improved surveillance system and through periodic surveys, such as KAP surveys, (see
Surveillance above). On an annual basis, each participating agency would also have agreed to its
output expectations as part of its annual work plan. Each would then "self-evaluate" in collaboration
with the PCU for a collective mid-year review of progress and an "end-of-year" evaluation of
performance, which would serve as input into the preparation of the subsequent annual program.
An independent review of the obtained results would be conducted by experts, contracted after about
2 years of experience to advise the PCU on modifications of the program's objectives, management
arrangements and costs and financing needs. This exercise would be the basis of a recommitment to
extending the response for a further 3-5 year period.
Phased Implementation Strategy
As the impacts of many proposed project activities, especially those that are di1ected at changing
behavior and attitudes, is difficult to predict project activities would be reviewed, added, dropped
and modified as lessons are learned during implementation. Annual progress reviews would
contribute to the use of rolling annual work plans and a mid-term review will be an important project
management tool.
Of particular concern would be St. Kitts/Nevis' ability to introduce and scale up HAART from its
present base. A period of preparation of the necessary infrastructure, human resources and
management platforms would be necessary for this to occur. The project would provide resources to
support this "preparation" with the following progression:
* Establishing and operating the management structure for HAART, including the National
Council on HIV/AIDS, and a special AIDS management team in the MOH main hospital facility
(JNF Hospital);
* Initial implementation of key prevention programs cited above (Components A and B); and
6 St Kitts/Nevis is a leading participant in the Caribbean initiative to negotiate prices for ARV drugs on a
regional basis, with manufacturers.



39
* Completion of infrastructure and human resource preparation for managing HAART, which
would involve:
* Refurbishing and remodeling three health centers (one in Nevis and two in St. Kitts) for VCT,
minor improvements of laboratory and pharmaceutical facilities in two hospitals (JNF and
Alexandra hospitals), and special arrangements for home and hospital care for HIV/AIDS
patients;
* Completing arrangements to assure HIV ELISA testing with equipment, staff and training in
laboratory facilities at JNF and Alexandra hospitals and opportunistic diseases testing and CD4
count at JNF hospital, as well as arrangements for collaboration with sub-regional agencies;
* Establishing an adequate process for procuring and managing required quantities of ARV drugs;
completing staffing and training for the JNF hospital AIDS management team; and
* Satisfactory updating of protocols for ART as well as the updating of the manual for the proper
handling and disposal of medical waste.
The GOSK, with the advice of the Bank, UNAIDS, PAHO/CAREC would assess its capabilities on
these counts prior to scaling up the number of RAART cases financed by the project.



40
Annex 2-b
Management of Bio-Medical Wastes
Introduction
An Audit of Biomedical Waste Management Practices was conducted, November 2001, under the
auspices of the Bank-financed OECS Solid Waste Management Project, in which St. Kitts/Nevis
participates. 7 The Audit Team visited the 2 main hospitals, representative health centers other
medical and dental offices and waste disposal sites to assess infrastructure, practices and results.
The Audit has concluded with a set of recommendations for urgent short term and longer term
structural improvements in biomedical waste management, which would be the basis of a plan of
action. The project will support implementation of this plan
Audit Findings
Legal Framework
While there are some laws and a proposed bill dealing in a general way with biomedical waste, there
are currently no specific regulations or guidelines on the national level defining what is biomedical
waste and for governing its management. The Solid Waste Management Bill, which is being
enacted, defines "biomedical waste" as including "any solid waste containing human or animal
fluids, flesh, bones or other body parts except hair." Annex 1, Schedule 1 of the bill classifies the
following waste streams, among others, as hazardous waste:
YI      Clinical wastes from medical care in hospitals, medical centers and clinics
Y2      Wastes from the production and preparation of pharmaceutical products
Y3      Waste pharmaceuticals, drugs, and medicines
There are no other classifications and formal definitions of the different types of medical waste as
individual "products" as opposed to the general end-of-pipe output. This provides no basis,
therefore, for mandating the segregating, handling and treatment regimes.
Treatment
Incineration is the waste treatment technology in use at St. Kitts and Nevis. Unfortunately, the
incinerators at JNF Hospital and Alexandra Hospital are of obsolete designs and do not meet the
generally accepted criteria for good combustion. Moreover, both incinerators are damaged. The
Alexandra Hospital incinerator, in particular, is almost completely destroyed; it operates essentially
as an open-bum platform and its use should be halted immediately. On the ground around both
incinerators, one finds partially burned residues, such as sharps, blood tubes and other debris, which
pose a serious hazard to workers. As found, both incinerators are liable to produce toxic air
pollutants. Replacement of the incinerators with treatment technologies that are more efficient,
cleaner, and have much lower adverse impacts on public health and the environment appear to be the
only viable alternative. The Audit Team has compiled a note on appropriate technologies that could
be applied, cost-effectively.
Handling and Disposal Practices
St. Kitts: The main hospital, JNF Hospital in St. Kitts, has a written waste disposal policy and
procedures, that are undated and that has not been implemented. The policy requires color coding of
7 E&ER Group, Audit of Biomedical Waste Management Practices, St. Kitts and Nevis; January 2002, Dr.
Jorge Emmanuel, President. Report prepared for Natural Resources Management Unit, OECS.



41
bags or containers: red for potentially infectious waste, yellow for any trace chemotherapeutic waste,
clear bags for non-contaminated waste, and red or yellow puncture-resistant containers for sharps. It
also describes collection and treatment methods, e.g., use of autoclave red bags and on-site
autoclaving for cultures. Some treatment methods are left unspecified, such as those for sharps
waste. The written policy is a good start in standardizing color codes and categorizing waste
components. However, sources indicated that color-coding had not been in place before and there
has not been an impetus to change the current practices.
At JNF Hospital, health care staff reported that yellow bags have been used on rare occasions for
highly infectious waste (described as waste from patients with HIV). However, this contradicts the
written policy that yellow bags are to be used for trace chemotherapy waste.
Generally, handling appears to meet acceptable although not risk-free standards. Sharps are usually
collected in cardboard sharps containers that are not puncture resistant, and blood tubes are collected
in empty bleach bottles. Except for the lack of biohazard markings, this is an acceptable practice.
Fluids from placenta waste are disposed in the sanitary sewer. This is also an acceptable practice as
long as health-care workers are protected from splashes from body fluids. Except for the lack of
color-coding and biohazard markings, the method of collection of cultures is also acceptable. The
numbers of regular garbage containers and biomedical waste containers are appropriate for the size
of the facility. In-house transport of waste is done using an open trolley. Treated waste residues
from the incinerator are sent to the Conaree disposal area.
Nevis: At Alexandra Hospital, there are no written policies, color-coding, nor signage. Sharps waste
is collected in puncture-resistant containers that meet international standards. Blood tubes are
collected in plastic-lined corrugated cardboard containers. Surgical and pathological wastes, as well
as placenta waste, are collected in plastic bags. Except for the lack of color-coding and in some
cases biohazard marking, these practices are acceptable. Until such time as a new treatment
technology is available, it is recommended that biomedical waste from Alexandra Hospital be buried
in deep trenches at the Low Ground disposal site; the trench areas should be fenced in with clear
warning signs and pickers should not be allowed access to those areas.
Training and Information
Throughout, employee training is informal and infection control committees are either dormant or
inexistent in all facilities visited. In the recent past, a teaching manual had been completed, including
lesson plans and handouts. The instructions covered disinfect ion among other topics. At present,
little instruction on biomedical waste management is provided through informal, on-the-job training.
A nosocomnial or infection control committee exists but has been dormant. It used to meet
periodically. Unfortunately, staff attrition, in some cases due to study leave, resulted in the
committee becoming inactive. This leaves the staff and patients open to risks that could be avoided.
A similar situation exists in Nevis.
Recommendations
Short Term
The Audit provides several short-term recommendations that could be applied immediately which
would address imminent hazards and protect health and the environment, and enhance worker safety.
They may include some temporary measures as part of a transition to the full implementation of best
practices and a national biomedical waste management system. Among the most important are:
FOR ST. KITTS:
All containers intended for potentially infectious waste should be marked with the
international bio-hazard symbol in order to clearly distinguish between infectious and non-



42
infectious waste. The UNIVEC Safety Boxes should be replaced and specially designed
sharps transport containers should be used by the health centers when transporting sharps
waste from field immunizations to central treatment plants.
*      Handling methods should be improved; for example: sharps containers should have lids; if
rigid containers are reused, the contents should be dumped directly into the incinerator
chamber; containers should then be cleaned and disinfected; trolleys used to transport
biomedical waste should not be used to transport regular garbage or other material and
should be cleaned regularly with soap and water, and disinfected with a bleach (sodium
hypochlorite) solution.
*      The JNF Hospital incinerator should be replaced; but while in use, the area around the
incinerator should be kept clean; the chimney should be installed; a local meteorologist
should be consulted on wind and turbulence patterns and burning eliminated during this
time. Only potentially infectious waste should be incinerated; not sources of toxic metals
(such as lead, mercury, cadmium, etc.) and chlorine (such as chlorinated plastics).It is
essential to remove ashes, soot, slag, and burned residues regularly in order to allow good air
flow for combustion. The residues from the chamber and from the opening beneath the
chamber should be collected directly into ash collection bins and not be allowed to scatter on
the ground where they could pose a hazard. Orderlies should continue to monitor the
incinerator to ensure as complete burning as possible.
*      Land disposal supervisors should ensure that recyclers or pickers are kept away from areas
where treated waste from the incinerator is dumped. That section should have a physical
barrier such as a fence and signs clearly marking the area as a restricted site.
*      The nosocomial or infection control committee at JNF Hospital should be reactivated. In
addition to its other usual tasks, the committee should initially be responsible for the
management of biomedical waste at the hospital. That responsibility can later be
transitioned over to a Waste Management Team as explained further in the Long-Term
Recommendations.
FOR NEVIS:
*      All containers intended for infectious waste should be marked with the international
biohazard symbol in order to clearly distinguish between infectious and non-infectious
waste.
*      Use of the Alexandra Hospital incinerator should be halted immediately and a new treatment
technology installed as soon as possible. Debris around the area of the bum site should be
cleaned and sharps, blood collection tubes, and other residues should be collected in rigid
containers and buried in deep trenches at the Low Ground dumpsite.
*      Until such time as a new treatment technology is available, sharps and other potentially
infectious waste should continue to be segregated and transported regularly to the dumpsite
where they should be buried in deep trenches and covered with earth. The area should be
fenced in and marked with warning signs. They should remain segregated during transport
and access to the trench areas should be restricted especially from recyclers or pickers.
While this is not a preferred method of disposal, this method poses less of a hazard than
using the broken incinerator.
*      An infection control committee should be formed at Alexandra Hospital. In addition to its
usual role of developing and implementing policies, procedures, and programs to minimize
the risk of spreading infection in the hospital, the infection control committee should



43
initially be responsible for the management of biomedical waste. As explained in the Long-
Term Recommendations, biomedical waste management should eventually be the
responsibility of a Waste Management Team.
Longer Term and Structural Improvements
The Audit provides a set of recommendations, which would be the basis of a longer term
restructuring of the biomedical waste management culture in St. Kitts and Nevis. They include
administrative and organizational recommendations outlining the responsibilities of staff members.
Recommendations are also made on occupational safety and health practices, classifications of
biomedical waste, waste minimization, color coding and labeling, specifications for collection
containers, in-house transport, transport outside the facility, recommended procedures for the
treatment of different categories of waste including expired pharmaceuticals, and final disposal.
These are summarized in five tables in the report. Specific recommendations are also made on
contingency planning, employee training, and public education.
Among the more significant are:
1. Legislation and Regulation: GOSK should consider a review and modification of legislation or
regulations on biomedical waste management that would cover:
*      Clear definitions of what constitutes biomedical waste and its categories
*      Coordination with hazardous (non-biomedical) waste management laws as well as other
laws dealing with health (including prevention of infectious diseases, hospital hygiene and
infection control), sanitation, environment (air quality, water quality, land disposal), and
occupational safety and health
*      Delineation of responsible national and local government authorities for implementation
(usually the Ministry of Health has primary responsibility with the Ministry of Environment
involved in specific ways)
*      Legal obligations of the biomedical waste generators, including record keeping, fees and
accountabilities;
*      Provisions related to inspections for the purpose of enforcement, penalties for non-
compliance, and legal procedures for handling disputes related to enforcement.
2. Institutional Policies and Administration: Every hospital or health care facility should have a
written policy on biomedical waste management. The policy should state the facility's objective of
providing a system for management of biomedical waste in order to protect patients, staff, and the
general public from hazards associated with biomedical waste. It should provide an overview of
responsibilities and outline major procedures for biomedical waste management. For JNF and
Alexandra Hospitals, it is recommended that hospital waste management teams be established at
both hospitals. Each team should be headed by the hospital administrator, who is also the designated
contact with the regulatory authority. The Audit Team has provided a model policy and a
recommended structure for management; including the designation of responsibilities and
accountabilities, and procedures.
3. Occupational Safety and Health: Personal protective equipment should be made available to all
personnel who handle, transport, and treat biomedical waste; including, gloves, boots, leg protectors,
and heavy soled shoes. Health-care workers that deal in situations where they may be splashed with
blood, body fluids, solvents, corrosive chemicals, or other hazardous liquids should also be provided
with eye and face protection. They should be used by staff members when discarding free-flowing
blood and body fluids in the sanitary sewer. Finally, Inmmunization from viral hepatitis and tetanus is



44
recommended for all waste handlers. Basic personal hygiene is also important and should be
emphasized during training.
4. Waste Segregation, Classification, and Minimization: Segregation, or the separation of specific
types of waste from other types of waste, is key to effective management of medical waste. It is the
responsibility of the waste generator. Potentially infectious waste should be segregated from regular
garbage as close as possible to the point where the waste is generated. Segregation should be
maintained during storage and transport up to the point of treatment. To be effective, the same
system of segregation should apply throughout the country. The Audit provides a full classification
scheme that could be directly applied. Finally, It is recommended that all health-care facilities
institute a waste minimization program, prior to final treatment and disposal. Potential benefits
include: environmental protection, enhanced occupational safety and health, cost reductions, reduced
liability, and improved community relations. The Audit provides details of a program that covers
source reduction (including material substitution, process changes, and good practices), resource
recovery and recycling, and composting.
5. Collection, Handling, Transporting Outside Facilities: A full application of color-coding is vital
for efficient collection, handling, transporting and eventual treatment of biomedical wastes. St. Kitts
facilities are aware of such a system but do not apply it faithfully. The audit also provides a set of
specifications of the appropriate receptacle for collected wastes (sharps, non-sharp infectious solids;
non-sharps infectious fluids, non-sharps, non-infectious wastes). Finally, recommendations cover the
Ministry of Health's role and responsibilities in regulating transportation of such wastes.
6. Treatment and Disposal: The replacement of the two incinerator facilities at the JNF and the
Alexandra Hospital is considered a highest priority. The Audit provides additional recommendations
as alternative technologies for treating and disposal of certain types of wastes (expired
pharmaceuticals, chemotherapy, low-level radioactive wastes, other hazardous wastes). However, it
is agreed that liquid blood and body fluids should be discharged directly and carefully into a sanitary
sewer using personal protective equipment (gown, goggles, face shield or mask). Also, treated
biomedical waste can be sent along with regular garbage for final disposal to a sanitary landfill
constructed with a clay or remembrance liner such as high-density polyethylene to prevent
groundwater contamination. If, for some reason, untreated medical waste has to be disposed of in
the landfill or if treated sharps have not been destroyed to the point of eliminating needle-stick injury
hazards, a special trench or cell can be used for this purpose. Unauthorized entry to the area should
be prevented by restricting access. However, the preferred method is treatment followed by final
disposal.
7. Planning, Contingency Planning and Training: Health-care facilities should develop contingency
plans in the event that biomedical waste is spilled, a worker is injured, or the treatment technology is
down for repairs. To be successful, however, staff training and public awareness of biomedical waste
management issues should be intensified. It should be the responsibility of the Waste Management
Officer and Infection Control Officer to ensure that training programs and annual refresher courses
or seminars take place. Training can be in the form of staff workshops, seminars, in-service training,
or classroom-type instruction. Separate training activities can be tailored and targeted to three
different groups in a health care facility: administrative managers and clerical staff; medical doctors,
nurses, lab technicians, and other health care professionals; and cleaners, porters, waste handlers,
and other auxiliary staff. The Audit Team has provided training materials outlines that can be readily
applied.



45
Project Assistance
Within the project, the MOH would apply the key recommendations of the Audit, to mitigate the
environmental risk of poor biomedical waste management by forming a Biomedical Waste
Management Team within the Solid Waste Management Corporation with a designated head to:
a)     Coordinate and program the application of the facility-by-facility recommendations of the
Assessment. Funding for small equipment as necessary would be drawn from the project.
b)     Review and rationalize, with the assistance of consultants, the legal framework, organization
and management structure of the system according to the Assessment's recommendations
and prepare updated regulations;
c)     Prepare documentation describing the functioning and provided technical specifications of
the equipment needed to implement a unified waste segregation, classification, minimization
and disposal system, which could include the acquisition of new incinerator facilities. The
costs of the equipment and facilities could be financed through the project; and
d)     Program and deliver updated training and information for health care professionals and other
health care personnel.



46
Annex 3
ANNEX 3A: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
St. Kitts/Nevis Prevention and Control HIV/AlDS Project
LOCAL            FOiREIGN            TOTAL
COMPONENT                              iS$M              US$M              US$M
1. ADVOCACY AND BEHAVIOR CHANGE                            0.35              0.16               0.51
2. PREVENTION                                              0.34              0.79               1.13
3. ACCESS TO TREATMENT, CARE AND SUPPORT                   1.63              0.29               1.92
4. SURVEILLANCE, EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RESEARCH                 0.08              0.47               0.55
5. SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT RESPONSE                         0.16              0.14               0.30
UNALLOCATED                                                                  0.07               0.07
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           2.56              1.91               4.46
FRONT-END FEE                             0.04              0.04
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED             2.56               1.95              4.50
ANNEX 3B: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
St. Kitts/Nevis Prevention and Control HIV/AIDS Project
US$ M
|   ESTliMATED    L.SOU11CE OF FUDIN; . .t LO* hN
PROJECT COSTS PER CATEGORY                          COST            OAN     ICOUN TEJP  AR TOAL
Civil Works                                                         1.57           1.41          0.16         90
Goods (excl. ART, lab reagents, drugs, condoms, home care supplies)  1.01          1.01          0.00        100
Anti-retroviral drugs                                               0.09           0.08          0.01         84
Laboratory reagents, drugs, condoms and home care supplies          0.29           0.24          0.05         83
Consulting Services                                                 0.86           0.77          0.09         90
Training Services                                                   0.27           0.27          0.00         100
Project Operating Costs (excluding local admirL personnel)          0.17           0.15          0.03         85
Local Administrative Personnel                                      0.13           0.00          0.13         0
Front-End Fee                                                       0.04           0.04          0.00         100
Unallocated Costs                                                   0.07           0.07          0.00         100
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                 4.50           4.04          0.46
90%           10%



47
Annex 4
Economic Analysis
St. Kitts and Nevis: HIV/ALDS Prevention and Control Project
Three related issues face St. Kitts and Nevis in launching its HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control
program: namely, how much public funding should be committed to the program; whether the
program will be cost-effective; and whether the program can be economically and financially
sustained.
The Federation has developed a National Strategic Plan (NSP) to respond to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, whose cost has been estimated by the University of the West Indies, Health Economics
Unit, at about US$7.million for 5 years8. The present HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project is
expected to provide a significant share of the financing required by the NSP over the next 5 years. It
is assumed that additional financing will be sought in the form of grants. This analysis focuses on the
economic analysis of the Project (financed though loan proceeds) as a major determining element of
the economic viability and sustainability of the entire NSP.
Economic Rationale for Public Sector Financing
The estimated HIV/AIDS prevalence rate in St. Kitts and Nevis (estimated to be between 1-2% of
the active population 1549 years of age) is considered about average when compared to other
countries in the Region, although probably concentrated in high risk an vulnerable groups rather than
widespread in the general population. This is considered by most analysts to be underestimated
considering the environment in which the stigma associated with the HIV infection (as with other
STIs) and lack of confidence in the confidentiality of testing may have led to significant under
reporting. As such, especially considering the small population of the country the epidemic creates
risks for the continuing economic development of the country.
The Federation's economy has grown at an average of about 3.9% between 1997-2001and is
expected to maintain at least this level for the next 4-5 years, with the possibility that it grow at
about 5%. Growth has been sporadic however, affected by hurricanes, off-shore developments that
govern the availability of investment funds and tourism from North America, and uncertainties for
agriculture9. This growth would be driven by expansion in construction, hotel and restaurants,
communications, housing and real estate and transportation. These sectors have seen positive
growth, and account for about 52% of GDP. St. Kitts and Nevis's competitively in these areas is
through its relatively well-educated labor force and perceived hospitable social and economic
environment. Being highly dependant on the availability of a productive labor force makes these
sources of income and growth vulnerable to the loss of key workers and managers. In a small
economy, the loss of productivity or death of relatively few individuals can have a
disproportionately higher impact on economic prospects than in a larger economy with larger labor
and talent pools. HIV and AIDS in St. Kitts and Nevis is concentrated, and is likely to remain
concentrated in the population aged 15-44 and among males (64%) which contributes most to
growth. Therefore, to minimize the risks of mortality and morbidity in its labor force resulting from
infectious diseases in general, and HIV in particular, is a justifiable public sector role from an
economic development perspective.
8 UWI, Health Economics Unit: A National Response: HIV/AIDS in St. Kitts and Nevis,. The Cost of the
National Strategic Plan; June 2002.
9 St. Kitts and Nevis; Medium Term Economic Strategy, 2003-2005 prepared for the CGCED Meetings, World
Bank, Washington, DC, June, 2002



48
St. Kitts and Nevis's principal sources of growth are also vulnerable to changes in demand for tourist
locations and perceptions of the climate for off-shore business. Maintaining visible and effective
action to contain infectious diseases, especially HIV, and to assure public health would be important
to maintain favorable international perceptions of the federation.
The UWI has estimated that the economic cost of the untreated HIV/AIDS epidemic in terms of
forgone GDP growth in Trinidad and Tobago and Jamaica to be between 1% and 1.5% per year.
These countries have economic structures, average income levels and HIV prevalence similar to the
Federation's economy. St. Kitts and Nevis may, therefore, be at the risk of similar losses. Studies of
larger but less developed economies and low-income countries in Africa place the economic loss at
about 0.2% per year. These economies are much more dependant on agriculture, less dependant on
tourism, and enjoy a larger labor pool than St. Kitts and Nevis. However, even if dissimilar, they
illustrate a minimum level of economic losses that St. Kitts and Nevis might face from unchecked
HIV spread. Applying these estimated rates of loss to St. Kitts and Nevis, assuming year 2001 GDP
of US$ 295 million, and base-case projected growth of 3.9% p.a., the country's foregone economic
gain could range between US$3 million (low loss rate assumption) and US$17 million (high loss rate
assumption) per year by 2004. This is illustrated in Table A.
Table A. Estimated Economic Cost of Un-addressed HIV Epidemic
(US$ millions)
Year         Projected    Projected GDP with annual loss  Projected GDP with annual loss of
GDP        of 1 point (b) (difference with  0.2 point (c) (difference with base)
(base case) (a)           base)
2001            295                   295                            295
2002            307                 303 (-4)                       306 (-1)
2003            318                 312 (-6)                       318 (-1)
2004            331                321 (-10)                       329 (-2)
2005            344                331 (-13)                       341 (-3)
2006            357                340 (-17)                       354 (-3)
Cumulative                              (-50)                          (-10)
Loss_______________________________
a) World Bank estimates, St. Kitts and Nevis Medium Term Economic Strategv. 2003-2005: for GDP, and
growth rates for 1997-2001
b) UWI; Modeling the Macroeconomic Impact of HIV/AIDS in the English Caribbean: the case of Trinidad
and Tobago. and Jamaica. for rates of loss
c) R. Bonnel; Does HIVIAIDS increase or decrease growth in Africa? ACTAfrica, World Bank
Based on this illustration, Govemment could commit up to US$ 3 million per year and realize a
"positive retum"l' on its HIV/AIDS expenditure in terms of protected economic growth. The present
estimated annual cost of the project is US$ 576,000 and the post project recurrent cost of the
proposed project is US$ 236,000 (see below), which is well below this projected annual loss. In
addition, the UWI estimated cost of the NSP is US$1.4 million per year, again, below the estimated
cost to the GDP of an untreated epidemic. Seen from another perspective, the total loss averted by
the program is estimated to be at least US$10 million. This compares favorably to the total estimated
cost of the project over 5 years of approximately US$ 2.88 million (including investment costs) and
the US$ 7 million estimate for the NSP.
The Government would make a sound economic choice, therefore in pursuing this program.
10 The analysis shows that there would be a positive economic return to the project from the first year so that
an economic rate of return would exceed 100%



49
Cost Effectiveness of the NSP and the Project
The NSP: UWI has estimated that the NSP could reduce the growth in the epidemic by about 19 %
in 5 years, based on a reduction by 70% in the rate of new infections (incidence rate) through the
prevention program. At the current rate of prevalence, this could amount to 60 infections averted,
representing about 600 life-years of declining productivity and increasing costs of care (assumring
that the average life expectancy of an infected person maybe 10 years) At current levels of
productivity and the costs of care, this could represent a "savings" of about US$4.3 million. This
compares favorably to the direct cost of prevention in the NSP (US$ 2.4 million). The prevention
program appears, therefore to be cost effective.
The Project: International evidence of the cost effectiveness of different types of interventions that
are effective in preventing and controlling HIV/AIDS infections is summarized in Table B."
The priorities within the project proposed by St. Kitts/Nevis appear to be consistent with the most
cost effective interventions as judged by the evidence. The project provides for a basic management
structure to develop the institutionally for continued response to HIV/AIDS (11% of project costs)
and necessary upgrading for basic health-system infrastructure (26.1 %) that has benefits beyond the
prevention and control of HIV/A1DS (including investment in biomedical waste management). Of
the remaining 66% of project cost which is devoted exclusively to HIV/AIDS prevention and control
activities, the project allocates most to the 4 areas of focus that have been shown to be the most
effective/efficient in improving life expectancy and quality of life (Table B) as follows:
*  Targeted interventions on high risk groups including commercial sex workers, MSM, youth
and IEC: 17.8%
*   Voluntary Testing and Counseling including improvement in case management and tracking
systems and laboratory services: 14.9%
* STI control including condom distribution: 12 %
* MTCT: 4%
The project also includes ptrovision of HAART (5.6% of project costs which may be classified as
both a preventive ands a treatment activity) and a community health care component (2.5% of
project costs which contributes to both prevention and care).
Table B: Cost Effectiveness of Various Intervention Ty es
Sex worker      STI        Voluntary    Anti-retroviral  IEC to change  HAART
interventions  management  counseling and  in pregnancy  risky behavior
testing
Cost per HIV          $8-12         $218        $249-346        $276         $1,324
infection averted
Cost per DALY       $0.35-0.52      $9.45     $12.77-17.78     $10.51        $66.2        $720-
saved                                                                                     $2,355
Efficiency Ratio      0.6-1          48          9-11            44           NA       _
Dependence on         Low         Medium         High           High          Low          High
Adequate Health
Care System                                   _
The first 4 activities of the proposed program, accounting for 49% of project costs tracks the 4 most cost
effective interventions seen from international experience. The St. Kills and Nevis program is considered,
therefore itself, to be likely cost effective. Where necessary, the performance of the health system is being
improved to accommodate the needs of the interventions where "high" dependence is indicated.
"1 This table is reproduced from the World Bank Project Appraisal Document (Report 22184-LAC); for the
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Program (APL), June 6 2001 (Annex 8), and from P.Jah et
al; for the Commission on Macroeconomics and Health, WHO: "The evidence base for interventions to prevent
HIV infection in low and middle income countries"



50
Economic and Financial Sustainability
The NSP: According to the UWI analysis, the annual cost of the NSP (approximately US$ 1.4
million) would represent about 16% of the recurrent health sector budget, and about 4.5% of the
recurrent social services and health budgets. The recurrent cost of the NSP would be, therefore
significant in government cash terms. This does not, however, account for the savings that might
result from reduced costs of treating opportunistic infections, the cost of family disability, orphans
care, and other social issues related to poverty and HIV/AIDS.
The Project: The estimated identifiable cost of the project is US$ 4.5 million (of which US$
130,000 is unallocated). The recurrent costs generated by the project are estimated as in Table C, and
amount to US$ 340,000. Of this, approximately US$ 287,000 would be incremental assuming that
the current government staff dedicated to HIV/AIDS work is not increased (which does not at this
time appear to be necessary).
St. Kitts /Nevis experiences between US$ 8.5 and US$ 10.0 million in recurrent expenditures per
year, of which personnel accounts for about 50% and goods and services, 30%. Within these costs,
the public sector supply of drugs procured through the OECS Drug Procurement Service, is about
US$ 600,000 per year.
Recurrent costs of the HIV/AIDS program would add about 3.5% to the recurrent health sector
budget for personnel and goods and services assuming that no new permanent staffing is employed
(which appears feasible). Under current pricing and assumptions and estimated umber pf patients
and treatment protocols to be employed, the purchase of ARV drugs needed for treatment would
amount to an increment of 13% in the current national drug budget. These assumptions are, however,
considered generous at this time.
Table C: Estimated Recurrent Costs (US$ 000s)
Cost Category     Total Cost,      Assumptions     Recurrent Cost,  Incremental
Project                          post project    portion (a)
Consultant             860        10% of annual cost       17             17
Services                                          _
Training               270        20% of annual cost      11              11
Works                 1,570        5% of total cost       78              70
Goods (small)         1,113       10% replacements        110             92
Goods (durable)        300         5% replacement          15             13
ARV Drugs              90           33% per year          50              50
Operating costs        170          Last year cost        34              34
National               127          Last year cost        25.4            0
Personnel
Total                 4,500                               340            287
a) Assuming Government counterpart financing during project period of 0%, consultant and training
services; 15% for non-ARV goods; 10% for works; 0% for ARV drugs; 100% for national personnel
and 20% for general operating costs.
The project appears therefore to have some impact on current budget allocations but that it should be
financially sustainable.



51
Annex 5
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
St. Kitts/Nevis Prevention and Control HIV/AIDS Project
Project Financing for Country Years Ending 2008
US$M
Implernentation Period^
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3    Year 4   Year 5  TOTAL
PROJECT COSTS
Investment Costs                        0.45       1.19      1.27      0.97     0.13      4.01
Recurrent Costs                          0.03      0.07      0.07      0.07     0.05      0.30
ART Drugs                                0.00       -         -        0.05     0.05      0.09
Unallocated                              0.00      0.02      0.02      0.02     0.02      0.07
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         0.48      1.28      1.36      1.10     0.24      4.46
Front-end Fee                            0.04       -         -         -        -        0.04
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                    0.52      1.28      1.36      1.10     0.24      4.50
12%        28%       30%       24%       5%
FINANCING SOURCES
IBRD/IDA                                            4.04
Government of St. Kitts                             0.46
Total Project Financing                                4.50



52
Annex 6
ST. KITTS/NEVIS
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999), and the "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997,
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement.
Procurement Responsibility
The Financial and Procurement Project Management Unit located within the Planning Unit of the
Ministry of Finance will be responsible for managing the procurement and financial accounts of the
Project. This Unit already has an institutionalized administrative PCU that carries out all the
procurement and financial responsibilities for three other World Bank Projects. It is composed of a
Project Management Coordinator, a Supervisor of Content, a Contract Specialist Engineer, and a
Certified Accountant. The PCU will supervise and maintain consolidated accounts of the project's
procurement. It will also perform the procurement activities for all ministries participating in the
project. This unit is supported by the other three divisions: Economics, Administration and Physical
Infrastructure.
Procurement Methods
A procurement plan will be prepared along with the annual work plan. The procurement plan for
each year would be submitted by the PCU to the WB for approval, not later than October of the prior
year (St. Kitts operates on a January-December budget and fiscal year) following a standard format
which would list as a minimum (i) goods and services to be procured for the year, (ii) their value;
(iii) the methods of procurement; and (iv) the timetable for carrying out the procurement. At the time
of approving the annual work plan, the WB would agree on the appropriate methods of procurement
to be used in each package. If needed, the plan could be revised and re-submitted. A format for a
typical plan was agreed at Loan negotiations.
The methods to be used for the procurement are described below, and the estimated amounts for
each method are summarized in Tables 6A.1 and 6.A. 1. The threshold contract values for the use of
each method are fixed in Table 6B. 1.
Procurement of Works: Works under this Project include remodeling and rehabilitation of health
facilities, laboratory space and pharmacy infrastructure, as well as support for emergency
reconstruction of Pogson Hospital, totaling US$1.57 million equivalent. Contracts above
US$100,000 will be procured following National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB), using
standard bidding documents agreed in advance with the World Bank. Small works, estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured on the basis of comparing at least
three quotations received in response to a written invitation, which will include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.



53
Procurement of Goods: Goods under this project will include general medicines, condoms,
audiovisual equipment, biomedical waste management equipment, computers, surveillance network
and office equipment, educational and campaign publications, laboratory equipment and testing
reagents with an estimated total cost of US$1.4 million.
To the extent possible, contracts for goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than
US$100,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBD); contracts below this threshold may be
procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB); contracts for goods which are estimated to
cost less than US$ 25,000 per contract may be procured using National or International Shopping
procedures.
Procurement of Drugs: If agreed, the Government will enter into an agreement with OECS
Pharmaceutical Procurement Service for the selection, procurement, distribution and management
use of the drugs and other medical supplies required for this project. The Government of St. Kitts
and Nevis already are members of the OECS and therefore this agreement would be complementary
to the existing one for the implementation of this project. An amount of about US$0.38 million is
envisaged for procurement of anti-retroviral (ARV) drugs (US$90,000); laboratory reagents, drugs,
condoms, and home care supplies (US$292,921), to be procured through OECS/PPS under the
agreement with the Government of St. Kitts and Nevis. Due to licensing constraints, it may be
necessary for the OECS/PPS to procure the ARV drugs directly from a single authorized supplier,
but all other drugs and medical supplies will be procured through competitive OECS/PPS procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Selection of Consultants: Consulting and training services will be contracted under this project in
the following areas of expertise: technical assistance for drafting legislation (bill) on reducing
discrimination and protecting HR of PLWAs; planning and implementing advocacy campaigns
w/private/public celebrities; education/information/communication campaigns; social marketing of
condoms; training of health personnel, management, HIV counselors, surveillance nurses, lab and
pharmacy staff, and information technology courses; training materials and manuals; prevention,
care, support of HIV/AIDS, STI PATIENTS, quality assurance of blood banks and laboratories,
HIV/AIDS and STI surveillance and research, management information systems, monitoring and
impact evaluation. These services are estimated to cost US$ 1.1 million equivalent.
Firms
Contracts with firms estimated to cost over US$50,000 would be procured using QCBS. Small and
simple contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less, would be procured based on
Consultants' Qualifications (CQ). Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be used for assignments of a
standard or routine nature costing less than $50,000 per contract. . The short-list of consultants for
these services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely
of national consultants.
Selected services supporting the improvement in the technical capacity and quality of GOSK's
laboratory operations would be contracted directly through PAHO acting on behalf of CAREC, in
accordance with Clauses 3.8 and 3.9 of the Consultants' Guidelines. These services would include
processing PCR, CD4 and viral load testing, confirmation of HIV/AIDS diagnostic tests and
providing specialized training.
Individuals
All other assignments where neither teams of personnel nor additional outside professional support
are required would be performed by individual consultants selected by comparison of qualifications
of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines.



54
NGOs, FBOs, CBOs
These organizations would provide services either in response to general request for offers, or
voluntarily as unsolicited proposals. The procurement of such services from these agencies would be
treated as the provision of consulting services, and follow procedures compatible with selection on
the basis of consultants qualifications (CQ). The procedures are detailed in the Operations Manual.
Training: The Project will finance training to strengthen lab, pharmacy capacity, community health
services, VIH/AIDS implementation and clinical management systems for information and
surveillance; voluntary VCT training of nurses counselors and MDs in public health services. As
described above, CAREC will be contracted directly through PAHO to provide some specialized
laboratory training. Other institutions and firms hired to provide training services will be selected
using the CQ method.
Prior Review: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity
assessment of the PCU and are summarized in Table B. Arrangements for prior review of the
procurement plan are described above under Procurement Methods.
Project Coordination Unit Procurement Capacity Assessment: A procurement capacity
assessment was carried out during April 10-13, 2002 and approved by the RPA on November 27,
2002.
At the time of the visit, the PCU had not been established yet, but it was proposed to adopt an
interim structure a "virtual" Project Management Unit under the Prime Minister's office, with focal
points in line ministries for the implementation of a multi-sect oral response to HIV/AIDS, and
operational likes to NGOs, FBOs, and CBOs that will play specific roles in the implementation. In
any case, irrespective of where the PCU is established, the Coordinator of the Project Management
Division of the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the procurement coordination with all the
agencies and for the implementation of all related activities.
The procurement risk is assessed as high. The main risks identified with this organization are:
(a) The only person with experience in procurement and WB projects in the Finance Ministry is the
Project Management Coordinator. Training is needed for additional personnel and it was requested;
(b) The Management Unit is short staffed. It will need to be strengthened with at least two
procurement assistant and two administrative assistant;
(c) The Project Management Unit will have to establish a good filing system to maintain
systematically all procurement records for purposes of auditing and supervision rmissions.
Procurement Plan: At negotiations the Borrower presented a draft procurement plan for the first
year of implementation. By effectiveness this plan will be completed and finalized for inclusion in
the operations manual. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will update the
Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year. The format for the
plan and timing of the updates are detailed above in the section on Procurement Methods.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision: The project will need strong support during the first six
months particularly to create a procurement capacity in the Management Unit and knowledge of
Bank Guidelines. After this initial phase, the project would receive a minimum of one full
supervision mission to visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions, every six
months. Based on the overall risk assessment (HIGH) the post-review field analysis should cover a
sample of not less than 1 in 5 contracts signed.



55
Table A. Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                    Total Cost
ICB         NCB         Other ._N.B.F_.                     _
1. Works                                          1.52       0.05 a/                    1.57
.________       (1.37)      (0.04)                    (1.41)
2. Goods
(a) Goods other than Lab         0.94         0.03        0.05                       1.02
reagents, drugs, ART,        (0.94)      (0.03)      (0.04)                     (1.01)
condoms and home
care supplies
(b) Lab reagents, drugs,                                 0.38 b/                    0.38
ART, condoms and                                     (0.32)                     (0.32)
home care supplies
3. Consultant Services                                        0.86/                     0.86
(0.77)   _                (0.77)
4. Training                                                   0.27                      0.27
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (0 .2 7 )  _  (0 .2 7 )
5. Operational Costs                                         0.17 d/                    0.17
(0.15)          .         (0.15)
6. Local Administrative Staff                                             0.12          0.12
(0.00)        (0.0)
7. Front-end Fee                                              0.04                      0.04
(0.04)          .         (0.04)
8. Unallocated Costs                                          0.07                      0.07
(0.07)          .          (0.07)
Total                             0.94         1.55        1.89        0.12          4.50
(0.94)      (1.40)      (1.70)       (0.00)        (4.04)
Notes: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
a/ Written quotations from at least three qualified contractors.
b/ Procured via OECD/PPS competitive procurement procedures.
c/. Details provided in Table A-i.
d/ Annual audiovisual campaigns, contests, screening newboms, treatment provision for opportunistic disorders, support
for execution of programs within line mninistries executed by ministries and volunteers, sundry items, supplies.



56
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultantl                                 Selection Method                               Total Cost
Training
Services
Expenditure
Category                          .     .
QCBS       QBS       SFB      LCS        CQ        Other       N.B.F.
A. Firns            .52  J                     0.05 a/    0.26      0.05 b/                    0.88
(0.47)                        (0.05)   (0.24)    (0.04)               (     0.80)
B. Individua(s                                                          0.25                       0.25
L..(.....i )  ()       () 0) 0         ______      (0.24)        ()          (0.24)
Total     0.52                          0.05      0.26      0.30                       1.13
(0.47)   (     )              (0.05)    (0.24)   (0.28)        0             (1.04)
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; LCS = Least-Cost Selection; CQ = Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications; Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, single sourcing etc.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
a/ = Includes consultants for audit services
b/ = Single Source Selection of CAREC



57
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value        Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method             Prior Review
US $ thousands                             US $ millions
1. Works                  >1,500                  ICB           All: 0
100 to 1,500           NCB           All: 1.52
<100               Three Quotations   None (Post review)
2. Goods
(a) Goods other than      >100                    ICB           All: 0.94
drugs, including ARV,
lab reagents, condoms
and home care
supplies.
25 to 100             NCB           First 2 contracts: 0.06
<25                   Shopping       None (Post Review)
(b) Drugs, lab reagents,                   OECS/PPS competitive All: 0.29
condoms and home                               procurement
care supplies                                   procedures
(c) ARV drugs                                   OECS/PPS        All: 0.09
Direct Contracting
3. Consultants and
Training
Firms                      >50                    QCBS          All: 0.52
< 50               QCBS, CQ, LCS      Only Audit 0.05
(Others Post Review)
Individuals               > 20               See Section V of   All (TOR, contract,
Guidelines      CV)
< 20               See Section V of   None (Post Review)
Guidelines
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  3.47
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review) reviewing a sample of 1 in 5
contracts signed.



58
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount of               Financing Percentage
the Loan
US$
MilHon
1. Works                           1.410  100% Foreign/90% Local Expenditures
2. Goods (except as covered
under Categories (3) and (4)    1.012  100% Foreign/85% Local Expenditures
below).
3. Anti-retroviral drugs           0.076  95% until total expenditures under this Category
have reached an amount equivalent to US$42,000
and 75% thereafter
4. Laboratory reagents, drugs            95% until total expenditures under this Category
(except as covered under       0.245  have reached an amount equivalent to US$123,000,
Category (3) above),                  and 75% thereafter
condoms and home care
supplies
5. Consultants Services            0.775           90%
6. Training Services               0.274  100%
7. Project Operating Costs         0.148  85%
(excluding local
administrative personnel)
8. Premia for Interest Rate Caps   0.0   Amount due under Section 2.09 (c) of the Loan
and Interest Rate Collars           _    Agreement
9. Front-end Fee                  0.0405
10. Unallocated                   0.0645
Total                              4.045



59
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, AUDITING AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT RESULTS
LCOAA performed a financial management assessment of the St. Kitts HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control Project Coordination Unit's (the PCU) from October 9th to the 11th , 2002 in accordance with
guidance from  OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment of Financial  Management
Arrangements in World Bank-Financed Projects, dated June 2001.
Although the PCU is currently implementing two Bank-financed projects, the Emergency Recovery
(ERL) and the Disaster Management (APL), a new assessment became necessary due to the
important changes that are still taking place in the entity and given the problems identified in
previous years audit reports and supervision missions. Furthermore it was determined that the PCU
does not have the capacity to disburse using PMR/FMRs and must now use SOEs to replenish its
SA. This situation determined a complex and difficult transition process, currently in progress.
Considerable improvements have been reached, however, there are corrective actions still pending,
the most important being the assignment of a new supervising accountant and the training of the
newly hired accountant. Under these circumstances the assessment of the PCU's financial
management capacity can be rated as medium risk However, this risk can be easily upgraded to
high, if the minimum corrective actions are not taken as expected and if the commitment of the
Government of St. Kitts and Nevis to the enhancement of the financial management capacity is not
sustained.
Conclusion
On the basis of the assessment performed, the financial management team concludes that upon
completion of the proposed action plan the financial management of the PCU, would satisfy the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements. Therefore, the team would advise that the
conditions listed in the assessment be considered as conditions in the legal agreement to be prepared
and signed with the Borrower under the St. Kitts H1V/AIDS Prevention and Control Project.
FUNDS FLOW
The project confirmed that it plans to open a Special Account (SA) at a commercial bank and use
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) to replenish the SA. The mission reviewed the procedures
relating to the operation of the SA (no commingling of funds, to be used only for IBRD eligible
expenditures and time limit of no more than 30 days for transfers from the SA to other project bank
accounts to meet eligible expenditures).
The project confirmed that it plans to open a Project Account I and a Project Account H. Project
Account I would be used to receive only counterpart funds while project account II would be used to
receive the portion of IBRD (from the SA) and counterpart funds to meet eligible expenditures as
they occur and issue checks to vendors and consultants in local currency.



60
The following diagram illustrates the proposed flow of funds.
SOE, DP and           Budget
Direct                           Special               Allocation
Payments                         Commitment            Request
(DP)                             Applications
L ACCT  i  ~~~~~~        {~PROJECT A CCT Iv
(US$) LOAN               *                 * (EC$) GOSK
/ Fs PUNDS ONLY  t                       t FUNDS ONLY
US$Payments
PROJECT ACCT H
(EC$) TO CLEAR
PYMNTS ONLY
DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
The proposed project has an implementation period of about five years. Disbursements would be
made in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook using SOE
applications (i.e., traditional disbursement procedures).
Special Account (SA). The PCU will establish a SA in USD, in a commercial bank (most likely
Scotia Bank). The SA is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the loan agreement.
Borrower counterpart funds must not be deposited in the SA. Under no circumstances may funds in
the SA be used to cover the share of expenditures corresponding to the counterpart funds or in
anticipation that counterpart funds to cover the borrower's share will shortly become available. The
PCU can prefinance expenditures with counterpart funds and then reimburse themselves from the
SA for the Bank's share of these expenditures.
Funds from the SA should only be withdrawn as eligible expenditures are incurred. Transfers from
the SA to other project bank accounts will only be permitted to meet eligible expenditures for a
limited period of no more than 30 days.
Upon effectiveness, the PCU will submit an application to the Bank for the initial advance to the SA.
Total advances to the SA at any given time would not exceed the authorized allocation for the
project.
For replenishment of the SA, the PCU will regularly prepare requests for reimbursement (i.e. SOE
Applications) of expenditures made. Monthly requested are preferred by longer reporting intervals,
not to exceed three months, are permitted. The PCU may be instructed to refund amounts advanced
to the SA if a request is not received after more than six months.



61
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications will be supported by an
SOE Summary Sheet for expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the Bank's prior
review and a reconciliation of the SA. Reimbursement of other expenditures would require
submittal to the Bank using an SOE Sheet - Contract Detail, a reconciliation of the SA and all
supporting documentation.
Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by the PCU for at least until one year after the
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the loan withdrawal was made. Such
documents must be available to review by external auditors and Bank staff.
Other procedures. Upon request from the Borrower and subject to the Bank's approval, payments
may be made: (i) directly to a third party (supplier or consultant) for goods, works and services; (ii)
to a procurement agent; or (iii) to a commercial bank for expenditures against a World Bank Special
Commitment covering a commercial bank's letter of credit.
STAFFING
The Bank reviewed the staffing and organizational structure of the Accounting Department,
especially in light of the hiring of the new Project Accountant. The Accounting Department is
comprised of a Supervising Accountant and a Project Accountant, which both report to the Project
Coordinator.  The project Accountant started in July 2002, and received training from the
Supervising Accountant.
REPORTING-AND MONITORING
The project accountant will be responsible for preparing the quarterly FMRs, the annual financial
statements and the loan withdrawal applications. The supervising accountant will be responsible for
reviewing what the project accountant prepares to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the
information.
Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports - FMRs
The PCU confirrned that they would be using Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for reporting
purposes and not for disbursement purposes. The format of the FMR would include report ]-A
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, and report 1-B Uses of Funds by Project Activity, in
addition to the project progress reports and the procurement management reports.
The FMR formats and guidelines have been reviewed and discussed with the project accountant. In
addition, the mission demonstrated the information that can be exported from QuickBooks to Excel
to prepare reports 1-A and 1-B. The FMRs will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after
the end of each reporting quarter.
Annual Financial Statements
For Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include the Statement of Sources and Uses
of Funds, the Statement of Cumulative Expenditures, the schedule of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) presented during the year in support of loan withdrawal applications, and the Statement of
the Special Account.



62
Monthly Statement of Expenditures
The project will prepare monthly Statement of Expenditures to support its applications for
replenishment of the funds in their Special Account. A copy the format of the SOE Summary Sheet
as well as the SOE - Contract Detail sheet was reviewed and discussed with the project accountant.
INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDITING
Internal Audit
The project may be subject to an internal audit conducted by the MOF.
External audit
According to the project legal agreements currently being implemented by the PCU, the project must
submit to the Bank, acceptable audited financial statements for every fiscal year. This same
arrangement would apply to the HIV/AIDS project and are summarized as follows:
*    Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference (TORs) both
acceptable to the World Bank. In addition to the audit opinions on project financial
statements, Special Accounts and FMRs, special purpose reports will be required to deal
specifically with the observance of the procurement and consultants services provisions of the
Loan Agreement.
*    The audit opinions will cover at least the project finaricial statements, Special Account and
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
*    The auditors will perform at least one interim visit per year.
*    A management letter will be prepared after each interim and annual visit and a copy will be
submitted to the Bank.
*    The project's annual audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than four months
after the end of the fiscal year end.
Audit Report                               Due Date
Entity                                                      N/A
Project                                           4 MONTHS AFTER FY END
SOE                                               4 MONTHS AFTER FY END
Special Account                                   4 MONTHS AFTER FY END
Other (specify)                                             N/A
Audit Compliance
According to Bank records, since 1999, audit reports from this PCU for other project have usually
been late. However, the reports have included all the information required by the Bank and the
opinions have been clean. Based on these circumstances, the supervision plan should include a
follow up on the contracting of auditors prior to the year end closing to ensure the audit reports are
received on time.



63
Risk Analysis
Inherent risk is the susceptibility of the project financial management system to factors arising from the
environment in which it operates, such as country rules and regulations and entity working environment.
Control risk is the risk that the project's accounting and internal control framework are inadequate to
ensure project funds are used economically and efficiently and for the purpose intended, and that the use
of funds is properly reported.
The table below represents the risk analysis relating to the financial management of the St. Kitts
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project.
Risk              Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measures
Inherent risk
Country specific            Moderate     Implementation of project by central PCU and
involvement of experienced FM staff from MOF
Entity/project specific     Moderate      Project Coordinator, who will oversee FM staff,
has familiarization with Bank procedures and
requirements
Control risk
Implementing Entity         Moderate      Project Coordinator, who will oversee FM staff,
has familiarization with Bank procedures and
requirements
Funds Flow: loan funds      Moderate      Opening of a Special Account in a commercial
bank and use of SOEs for disbursement
Funds Flow:counterpart funds  Moderate    Counterpart deposited into a separate project
account.
Staffing                    Moderate      Project Coordinator, who will oversee FM staff,
has familiarization with Bank procedures and
requirements
Accounting   policies  and  Low
procedures
Internal Audit              Low
External Audit              Low
Reporting and Monitoring   Low
Information Systems        Low
Strengths and Weaknesses
The use of QuickBooks will enable the PCU to maintain a record of expenditures in accordance
with recommended practices for project accounting. In addition, the Project will utilize already
established processes and procedures for the financial management of the project, which is in line
with Bank efforts to minimize borrower's costs of meeting Bank fiduciary requirements. However,
some weaknesses exist in the project financial management plan, addressed in the table below:



64
Significant Weaknesses                            Resolution
Lack of experience with Bank-financed projects Implementation of SOE-based disbursement.
(new project accountant that will be put in-charge
of 3 Bank financed project).
PCU is currently in a process of reorganization  Process to identify key people with project
(anticipate the appointment of a new supervising  knowledge in the existing organization that could
accountant by November 2002)                 transfer knowledge if necessary.
ACTION PLAN
Area / Action                    Responsible Party     Expected date
1. Flow of funds
1.1 Get concurrence from IBRD on commercial bank  PCU                 Prior to
used.                                                                  effectiveness
1.2 Open the project bank accounts: the Special Account  PCU           Prior to
in US Dollars in the bank selected, and the project                    effectiveness
account for counterpart funds
2. Staffing
2.1 Appoint a Supervising Accountant and submit CV to  PCU/IBRD        Prior to
the Bank for No Objection.                                             effectiveness
2.2 Identify FM training opportunities for the    PCU/IBRD             On-going
Accountant, the Supervising Accountant and the Project
Coordinator.
3. Accounting and internal control
3.1 Update the Chart of Account in the accounting  PCU                 By effectiveness
system to include classification for financing sources and
disbursement category. _
3.2 Prepare and finalize the Operational Manual. Areas  PCU            Prior to
to be included, but are not limited to payment                         effectiveness
procedures, flow-of-funds, format of FMRs, and
disbursement procedures (based on SOEs).
3.3 Improve current filing system to increase ease and  PCU            On-going
efficiency of locating documents.
3.4 Implement the use of an asset register for the  PCU                On-going
safeguarding and insuring of assets purchased by the
project.
4. External audit
4.1 Submit TORs to IBRD for review and clearance  PCU                  May 2003
4.2 Once the Bank clears the TOR and short list of  PCU/IRBD           June 2003
auditor firms, proceed with the appointment of the
external auditors.
5. Financial reports and monitoring
5.1 Submit sample format of FMR to be used for    PCU                  By effectiveness
reporting purposes and get concurrence from the Bank.



65
CONDITIONS
Based on this assessment, we recommend the following conditions:
For effectiveness: (i) open Special Account in commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, (ii)
appointment of the Supervision Accountant acceptable to the Bank, and (iii) finalization of the
Operations Manual.
FINANCIAL COVENANTS
Section 4.01 "Standard" wording: audit reports to be furnished to IBRD no later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year.
Section 4.02 "Standard" wording: the due date for the first FMRs is 45 days after the end of the
quarter in which effectiveness takes place.
SUPERVISION PLAN
On the basis of the results of the assessment, the PCU will still require close monitoring from the
financial management side. After effectiveness, an FMS should review the annual audit reports as
well as visit the project on a quarterly basis until all the action plan items, which in some cases are
already being implemented, are completed and operational. A semi-annual visit thereafter should be
sufficient.



66
Annex 7
Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule      Planned                             Actual
Time taken to prepare the             3                           5
project (months)
First Bank mission                 3/17/02                     03/17/02
(identification)
Appraisal mission departure         5/30/02                    11/11/02
Negotiations                       05/15/02                    11/11/02
Planned Date of Effectiveness      08/15/03
St. Kitts/Nevis govermment officers who worked on the project
Name                                     Position
Hon. Dr. Denzil Douglas       Prime Minister
Hon. Dr. Earl Martin          Minister of Health and Environment (MOH)
Dr. Thelma Phillip-Browne     Former Chief Medical Officer, MOH
Dr. Kathleen Allen-Ferdinand  Director of Cormnunity Health, MOH
Mr. Elvis Newton              Permanent Secretary, MOH
Mrs. Mavis Higgins            Former HID/AIDS Coordinator, MOH
Mr. Andrew Skerrit            Health Planner, MOH
Ms. Gail Crantoun             Health Information Unit, MOH
Mrs. Eugenie Condor           Director of Health Institutions, MOH
Dr. Patrick A. Martin         Medical Chief of Staff, Sir Joseph M. France Hospital, MOH
Mrs. Jasmine Hanley           Manager of Laboratory J. M. France Hospital, MOH
Mrs. Hilary Hazel             Assistant Director of Planning, MOF
Ms. Jasmine Huggins           Counselor, Embassy and Permanent Mission of St. Kitts and
Nevis
Bank staff who worked on the project:
Name                                     Specialty
Patricio Marquez              Task Team Leader
Mariana Montiel               Legal Counsel
Rajeev Swami                  Financial Management Officer
Patricia de la Fuente Hoyes   Financial Management Specialist
Marta Ospina                  Procurement Analyst
Edward Daoud                  Sr. Finance Officer
Juan Rovira                   Health Economist
Son Nam Nguyen                Health Specialist
Joelle Dehasse                Country Officer
Juan David Quintero           Regional Safeguard Coordinador
William Experton              Country Sector Leader
Salim Habayeb                 Peer Reviewer
Kundhavi Kadiresan            Peer Reviewer



67
Name                                       Specialty
Oscar Echeverri                Consultant
Evelyn Pesantez                Consultant
Natalia Moncada                Task Team Assistant
Maria Colchao                  Task Team Assistant
Alberto G6nima                 Health Management and Information Systems Specialist
(Consultant)
Pedro Chequer                  Inter Country Program Advisor Southern Cone, Consultant
(UNAIDS)
Angela Trenton-Mbonde          Team Leader for the Caribbean, Consultant (UNAIDS)
Robert Crown                   Project Design and Implementation Specialist (Consultant)



68
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
A. Project [mpllementation Plan
1. National HIV-AIDS Strategy Plan 2003-2007. Rapid Assessment Study HIV-AIDS.
University of West Indies.
lB. IBank Staff Assessments
1.        Financial Management Assessment. Patricia De La Fuente Hoyes. October, 2002.
C. Other
1. KN-ST. Kitts and Nevis Emergency Recovery Project



69
Annex 9
Statement of Loans And Credits
Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA and Grants)
As Of Date 10/2412002
Closed Projects     I
BRD/IDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)   4.71
of which has been repa  0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)   2.59
of which has been repa  0.53
Total Disbursed (Active + Cl 7.30
of which has been repa  0.53
Total Undisbursed (Active)  12.89
Total Undisbursed (Closed)  0.00
Total Undisbursed (Active +  12.89
Active Proiects
Last PSR
Supervision Rating                                  Original Amount in US$ Millions
roject ID                Project Name           Development Implementatio    Fiscal Year          IBRD            IDA       GRANT            Cancel. Undisb.
Obieclives    n Progress
075978                   60-KN EDUCATION (A S                       S           2002                  5                                                    5
062668                   KN 6o Disaster Mgt Proji S                S             1999               8.5                                             3.754361
077684                   St. Kitts and Nevis Emeri S                S           2002                4.4                                                4.136
'verall result                                                                  Result              17.9                                            12.S9036



70
Annex 10
Country at a Glance
St. Kitts and Nevis at a glance                                                              9/19/02
St Kitta     Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    and   America    middle-
Nevia   & Carib.   Income      Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-vear (millions)                       0.04       524       504                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   7.270     3,560     4,460
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      0.30     1.862     2,248
Average annual grovith, 1995-01
Population (%)                                         0.0       1.5       1.3     GN                              G
Labor force (%)                                         *-       2.2       1.8      GNI                            Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national povertv lino)
Urban population (% of total population)               34         76        77
iUfe expectancy at birth (vears)                       71         70        71
Infant mortality (par 1.OOO live births)               19         29        24
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                         9         9           Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of Population)   98         85        87
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     ..        II        10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   ..       130       127            St. Kitts and Nevs
Male                                                  ..       131       128              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                ..       128       126
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.06     0.16      0.33      0.34
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                30.2     42.9      46.3      46.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP            60.4    *58.9      43.3      44.1                     Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                    1.1     21.4       -0.3      17.2
Gross national savinqs/GDP                   20.9     21.9       9.9      13.1
Current account balance/GDP                  -8.1    -17.6      -17.7    -32.9      Domestc    FInvestment
Interest pavmentslGDP                         0.2      0.8       2.2       3.3     savings
Total debt/GDP                               14.5     30.3       47.0      55.2
Total debt service/exports                     ..      3.3       12.5      132
Present value of debtGDP                        ..      ..      35.2
Present value of debt/exports                                    71.71.7
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  6.7      4.6      5.3        1.7                   -St. Kitts and Nesvi
GDP per capita                       7.5      4.8      5.0        1.5        ..              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        7.4      1.4     -5.4        3.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  11.1      6.7        2.8       2.9
Industry                                     24.4     26.5       29.0      29.2    20
Manufacturing                               14.4     12.0      10.5      10.2
Services                                     64.5     66.8       68.3      68.0     0
96   97    98    _',   oo   or
Private consumption                          72.9     61.0       75.7      59.8    *20
General govemment consumption                26.0     17.6       24.6      23.0              -     GDI      e-GDP
Imports of goods and services                89.5     80.4       89.9      72.9
(averaqe annual growth)                   1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001     Growth of exPorts and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  -2.3      0.2       -6.5       6.9    40
Industry                                      5.9      7.0       24.0       2.0    20
Manufacturing                                2.6      4.8      10.8      -1.5 
Services                                      8.6      4.0        2.9       1.8     0 
Private consumption                           2.8      6.6       27.3     -19.7   -20
General qovemment consumption                 2.5      8.0       20.3      -4.7    40.
Gross domestic investment                    13.1       52       30.5       1.0                Exports     oImporls
Imports of goods and services                 6.1      5.2       35.6     -17.5
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group averaqe. If data are missing. the diamond will
be Incomplete.



71
St. Kitts and Nevis
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1981     1991       2000      2001     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          10 .
Consumer prices                               10.5      4.2        0.0      0.0      5
Implicit GDP deflator                         16.5      3.0        3.7      2.6
Government finance                                       o                                          e    |       0      1
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                         9S    97    9S    92     00
Current revenue                                 ..     23.1       29.2     28.5     -s I
Current budget balance                          ..      0.8        2.3      2.5             -G    DP deflator      CP
Overall surplusideficit                         ..     -2.8       -2.7      -1.9
TRADE
(US$ mIllions)                               1981     1991       2000      2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                      34        52        47
Sugar                                                  11.         B        7
Beverages and tobacco                          ..       2          1        1      1SO
Manufactures                                  ..       21         24       22
Total imports(cl)                               ..      110       149       152     so(
Food                                          ..       18         27       25      s_*
Fuel and energy                                         9         13       13
Capital goods                                 ..       26         21       24       a
95   96   97    98   99   00    01
Export prce index (1995=100)                    ..
Import price index (1995=100)                       a..       ..             ..                   Exports     8 Imports
Terms o1 trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1981     1991       2000      2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                  39       103       156       151      o
Imports of goods and services                  55       132       247       250
Resource balance                              -16       -30        -91      -99     -0o
Net income                                       1       -7       -29       *34
Net current transfers                          t0         B        63        20     *20
Current account balance                         -5      -29        -58     -113     -30
Financing items (net)                           9        30        58       112
Changes in net reserves                         -5       -1         0         0     40
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)           ..      23        52        48
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)               2.7      2.7        2.7       2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991       2000      2001
(US$ millons)                                                                        Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             8       50        155      189
IBRD                                          0         0         5         7                    1   7 1
IDA                                           0         0         1         1                               2
Total debt service                               0        4        20        21
IBRD                                          0         0         0         1
IDA                                           0         0         0         0            75                      53lS
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                2        2         2         ..
Official creditors                             1        3         3         9
Private creditors                             0         1         14       27
Foreign direct investment                      1       21        96
Portfolo equlttv                              0         0         0         .S
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        3         0         0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0        0          1        2      B - IDA  D - Othter muftilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        0         0         0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                      0        0          1        2
Interest payments                              0        0         0         0
Net transfers                                  0        0          1        2
Developrnent Economics                                                                                                 9/19/02






IBRD 19241R1
62-60'                                  62'40
ST.KITTS AND NEVIS
G  T   /
"PAU L '__ S  T.    &\ 0ST. KITTS
I;L<T \ A N N E  _tv, J O H N /ooCARBBA
-, S T   " C H U R C H g S T. t  iS f A           -CMrin Roods
170   THOMAS        I   MA Yt\\                                   Airports         17-20-
- - - - -   Parish  Boundaries
d    '  s T ETE R I NIT
Oto' Gooo zIsoch  \  / T R IOLDS NIT \  .  _   ROCK
P              ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JPor
o    2   A    6     a                               4- M,o.o  7/ult
o;   I .   ,2  3  4,  
W-idy Hill Po,,r
N~~~
62-60Y                                            /1\              K b
-1710                      ,on     '    otV
tgUJ~A) Cn        AT LANT/C         .                           ST
t   D O M W 4 N. Is.   0  A L -A                 T H O M A T    B w,8     o s
JAhWCA  C r    u       E~~~~~~AGLLL     N E V I S     /      
ST.KITTS A ND' ~AN~TOA
JAMAICA                 IwtVIS  OWSEZRAT
?oADE10K                CHARLES5OWN t T  PT
~OOWW.A
C A R  Be F A N   S E A     QS. IA
0 0      Thi,oph. b.. tp_.d by
AMJBA              L JSAM d  ot W oyo GBa staff
1~~~ \<;f~~BKA                  md i .3tR4>4iet>wofyl d itd  T  OH
Iod Soak Grsp ony judg.  1,
an fre g  sto 10dw ot ony t ndrry
SOUTH  AMERICA
r   o40'                                62-20
APRIL 1992



IMAGING
Report No.:        25210   SC
Type:     PAD



