25058
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/28/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Pro ect Data
Country: ST. KITTS AND NEVIS                      Project ID: P076798
Project: KN: HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND             Task Team Leader: Patricio V. Marquez
CONTROL PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 15, 2002   IBRD Amount ($m): 2.60
Bank Approval: May 15, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHH                             Sector: Health (100%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: Fighting communicable diseases (P);
Status: Lending                                  Population and reproductive health (P); Health
system performance (S); Child health (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
St. Kitts/Nevis has met the eligibility criteria for country participation in the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Prevention and Control Adaptable Program Lending (APL) for the Caribbean Region, which provides
loans and/or credits to governments in the Region to finance their HIV/AIDS prevention Programs.
The project aims to support selected activities of St. Kitts/Navis' Strategy Plan for the National Response
to HIV/AIDS (SPNR). It would assist the Government of St. Kitts/Nevis (GOSK) to control the spread
of HIV/AIDS through: (a) scaling up prevention programs targeting high-risk groups as well as the
general population; (b) strengthening treatment, care and support for persons living with HIV/AIDS
(PLWA); and (c) strengthening of St. Kitts/Nevis' multi-sectoral institutional capacity to better respond
to the epidemic.
I.A.3. Project Description:
A.     Advocacy and Behavior Change (500,000)
Advocacy. The Project would assist the government to create a favorable legal and policy environment
that protects the rights of PLWA. This work would begin as part of project preparation, including
identification of strategic partners (media, local celebrities, religious, business and community leaders) to
mobilize their support in public information campaigns against stigma and mobilization. PLWA will be
involved in these advocacy activities.
Information Education and Communication - IEgiming at maintain people's awareness of
HIV/AIDS and prevention measures, promote behavior changes for safe sex practices and risk reduction.
It will be done through national and community campaigns.



2
ISDS
B. Prevention in high-risk groups and general population (US$ 1,047,650)
This component would finance activities to idehio-risk groups (CSW, MSM, uniformed
personnel, migrant workers, and hotel and tourism workers) and their informal networks (e.g. through
participatory mapping), in order to target them with prevention and behavioral change interventions. For
both, target groups and the general population, the project would support IEC and awareness campaigns,
Voluntary Counseling and Testing services, condom distribution, prevention of MTCT, and STI
management. A strong emphasis will be laid on youths (both in and out of school).
Improved Management of Biomedical Wastes: Although the size and type of services provided by the
project do not pose threat to health personnel, patients, or the community, the project would finance the
strengthening of the biomedical waste management system in public health facilities, including
equipment, training, technical assistance and new facilities for the treatment and disposal of bio-medical
wastes.
C. Access to Treatment, Care and Support for PLWA (US$322,500)
The project would support capacity strengthening and upgrading current services available for providing
treatment, care and support for PLWA, through: a) management of opportunistic infections and
palliative care; b) introduction of HAART; c) strengthening heath facilities/laboratory capacity; d)
pharmacy strengthening; and d) home and community-based care for PLWA.
D. Surveillance, Epidemiology and Research (US$ 545,250)
The project would support a new information system, which would: (i) protect the confidentiality of
medical records assuring patient privacy through encrypted technology; (ii) improve the quality of the
information allowing for cross reference analysis from multiple databases being implemented; and (iii)
support decision making in case management, particularly for ART but also for STIs in general, by
providing secured online real time clinical information.
The project would provide system design, adaptation of available software and procurement of hardware,
installation, provision of IT support and the training for practitioners, laboratory staff and MOH
researchers required to use the system. It would support second-generation surveillance that monitors
both HIV infection and risk behaviors to inform the trends of the epidemic. A monitoring and evaluation
system will be put in place with quantifiable indicators.
E. Sustainable Management Response (US$ 263,250)
The project would support the creation and the initial operations of a "National Council on HIV/AIDS
(NCHIA)", whose mandate would be to provide policy guidance to the Prime Minister and his Cabinet,
and oversee implementation and resources mobilization for HIV/AIDS.
The Project would also support the operation of a virtual PCU under the leadership of a Steering
Committee, which would be responsible for project implementation and periodic briefing to the Cabinet
and the NCHA on project implementation activities (see Implementation Arrangements, below).
Ministries and agencies with operational responsibilities for the program would designate a "focal point"
staff to be responsible for implementing the agencies' program components.



3
ISDS
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is expected to cover both islands St. Kitts and Nevis. High risk groups such as HIV/AIDS
pregnant women, adolescents and young adults, MSM, CSW, prisoners, military, commercial drivers and
tourism workers, would be the primary beneficiaries of the project. However, given the fact that
HIV/AIDS is an epidemic without selectivity, all populations groups would be considered vulnerable.
Many of them would participate actively in project activities, such as peer education, role-playing,
condom distribution, etc.
B. Chleck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes C No    C TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        C OYes * No     TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                ' Yes * No    X .TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    Yes * No    ,! TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    QYes *No      'TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes  * No     TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes * No    C TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                C Yes * No     C TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           O Yes * No       TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          . Yes * No    . TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
lI.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are no major environmental issues. Other environmental issues identified are medical waste
management associated with increased ART in public health facilities.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
The solid waste produced in health facilities is potentially hazardous, infectious, contagious, or toxis, posing
health risks to staff who handle waste in health facilities and to urban waste collection operators and
scavengers in landfills.
1 D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A
IL.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
An audit of Biomedical Waste Management Practices in St. Kitts and Nevis is included in the Project



4
ISDS
Appraisal Document (Annex 2-B). It will be submitted to the Infoshop as Annex to the Project Information
Document.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Medical waste management, is a minor project issue, that will be correctable with project activity. The
small environmental risk posed by project clinical activities can be mitigated through actions
recommended by the Audit of Biomedical Waste Management Practices conducted in the country with
the support of the World Bank financed OECS Solid Waste Management Project. They would be
incorporated as part of project implementation. MOH would apply the key recommendations of the
Audit, to mitigate the environmental risk of poor biomedical waste management by forming a Biomedical
Waste Management Team within the Ministry of Health with a designated head to:
(a)    Coordinate and program the application of the facility-by-facility recommendations of the
Assessment. Funding for small equipment as necessary would be drawn from the project.
(b)    Review and rationalize, with the assistance of consultants, the legal framework, organization and
management structure of the system according to the Assessment's recommendations and prepare
updated regulations;
(c)    Prepare documentation describing the functioning and provided technical specifications of the
equipment needed to implement a unified waste segregation, classification, minimization and disposal
system which could include  the acquisition of new incinerator facilities. The costs of the equipment
and facilities could be financed through the project; and
(d)    Program and deliver updated training and information for health care professionals and other
health care personnel.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During the formulation of the response, consultation was conducted with focus groups: government
officials responsible for tourism, youth and sport, AIDS coordination, health planning, substance abuse
program, social services; the media, the Christian Council, Chamber of Commerce, Medical Association,
PLWAs (FACTT), Camival Committee/Cultruama Committee; youth groups; high school students;
women in industrial settings; prisoners; and professional women. In addition, specialized epidemiological
consultations have been conducted between CAREC and legislators and government and with the
medical community.
The table below summaries how key stake holders will participate in the implementation of the project
activities.
Stakeholders                             Participation in the program
High-risk groups                         Volunteers from  high-risk groups will be
recruited to act as facilitators as well as peer
educators for interventions programs.
PLWA                                     Will participate through representation in the
National Council on AIDS
Sector organizations                     Private and public enterprises/organizations
will participate in the development and
implementation of sector-specific HIV/AIDS
activities through the "focal points "
NGOs, CBOs, civil society, church        Can participate as sub-contracting agencies for
the implementation of HIV/AIDS activities



5
ISDS
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
S . - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 5/15/2002     5/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             6/17/2002     6/17/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              10/24/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Si2ned and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Patricio V. Marquez                         10/25/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date



6
ISDS
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                                  10/24/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Evangeline Javier                                10/24/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH          FEEDOACK        ISIE MAP         SHOWCASE        m



