Report No. PID11503
Project Name             ST. KITTS AND NEVIS-KN: HIV/AIDS...
PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Health (100%)
Project ID               P076798
Borrower(s)              ST. KITTS & NIVES
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: Church Street, Bassaterre,
St. Kitts
Contact Person: Dr. Earl Martin
Tel: (869) 465-2521
Fax: (869) 465-1316
Email: Minhwa@Caribsurf.Com
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        October 30, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      December 15, 2002
Bank Approval Date       May 15, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Main sector issues
As with all Caribbean countries, the first case of HIV/AIDS in St.
Kitts/Nevis was discovered in the mid 1980s. Since then, the country has
seen a significant rise in HIV/AIDS and it has started to affect the
population as a whole. As of third quarter 2001, St. Kitts and Nevis
reported 195 cumulative HIV cases, 75 AIDS cases and 58 deaths because of
AIDS. Of these, 36 cumulative HIV/AIDS cases belong to Nevis, of which, 1
has AIDS, and 18 have died due to AIDS.
Despite the absence of a sentinel surveillance system, HIV prevalence
among people aged 15-49 is estimated at about 1.59 - 2.0%, which means
that about 450-600 people are already infected by HIV. Furthermore, it is
estimated that 5% of pregnant women are HIV positive, which represents 50
HIV positive pregnant women. Without any intervention, this can produce
about 15-30 new HIV positive newborns a year. The majority of reported
cases were among persons 25-44 years of age, with a sex ratio of 2 males
to 1 female. These figures indicate that St.Kitts/Nevis are in the process
of changing from a concentrated to a generalized epidemic, if effective
action is not taken now. Worse, a 1.5 - 2% prevalence in a small
population such as that of St. Kitts/Nevis is far more serious than in
larger populations, because its impact in the productive population is
felt more severely.   Overall, CAREC estimates that there may be up to 40%
under-reporting Communication from CAREC though PAHO Regional Office,
Barbados. MSM cases account for about 3%, which is also considered to be
seriously under-reported due to the stigma attached to homosexuality in
the country.
St. Kitts/Nevis responded to the outbreak of HIV/AIDS in the mid-eighties



by setting up a National AIDS Program within the Ministry of Health, which
depended essentially on external assistance (e.g. CAREC) to initiate
testing, surveillance and research, protect blood supplies, and carry out
communication and behavioral interventions. With the situation worsening
in the mid nineties, the GOSK took a more proactive approach and set up an
AIDS Coordination Unit within the Ministry of Health, staffed with a
coordinator and two professional staff. The Coordination Unit has, since
then, been very dynamic in mobilizing NGOs, community groups and other
ministries of government with the goal of raising public awareness and
changing behavior. The Ministry of Health has also begun a more concerted
effort to fight HIV/AIDS by strengthening STI management and condom
programs. Condom distribution has become a more common practice at
festivals, carnival and other public gatherings. The issue to be addressed
is how to scale up other effective interventions and sustain the momentum
over the longer term.
Recognizing the challenges ahead, the Government has adopted the Caribbean
Regional Strategic Plan of Action for HIV/AIDS, to which it contributed.
Within the framework of this Regional Plan and after wide consultations
among stakeholders in the country, the Ministry of Health has formulated
the "Strategic Plan for the National Response to HIV/AIDS in St.
Kitts/Nevis" with the goals of reducing:     (i) the spread of HIV
infections and (ii) the impacts of HIV/AIDS on individuals, families and
communities. The Plan identifies the five priority areas for intervention:
1. Prevention
2. Treatment, Care and Support
3. Advocacy
4. Surveillance, Epidemiology and Research
5. Program Coordination and management
2. Objectives
St. Kitts/Nevis has met the eligibility criteria for country participation
in the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Adaptable Program
Lending (APL) for the Caribbean Region, which provides loans and/or
credits to governments in the Region to finance their HIV/AIDS prevention
Programs.
The project aims to support selected activities of St. Kitts/Nevis'
Strategic Plan for the National Response to HIV/AIDS (SPNR). It would
assist the Government of St. Kitts/Nevis (GOSK) to control the spread of
HIV/AIDS through: (a) scaling up prevention programs targeting high-risk
groups as well as the general population; (b) strengthening treatment,
care and support for persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWA); and (c)
strengthening of St. Kitts/Nevis' multi-sectoral institutional capacity
to better respond to the epidemic.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Through its participation, the Bank would re-enforce GOSK's adoption of
institutional arrangements for sustaining the HIV/AIDS prevention and
control project, and would provide necessary incremental resources to
invest in this development. It would also re-enforce St. Kitts/Nevis'
policy to introduce HAART by assisting to meet requirements in the
infrastructure of the health system for a successful program. The Bank
would also strengthen the partnerships that St. Kitts/Nevis has built with
PAHO/CAREC, UNAIDS, OECS/PPS and in the dialogue with suppliers of ARV
-2 -



drugs.
4. Description
1. Project components (see Annex 2):
A. Advocacy and Behavior Change
Advocacy. The Project would assist the government to create a favorable
legal and policy environment that protects the rights of PLWA. This work
would begin as part of project preparation, including identification of
strategic partners (media, local celebrities, religious, business and
community leaders) to mobilize their support in public information
campaigns against stigma and mobilization. PLWA will be involved in these
advocacy activities.
Information Education and Communication - IEC. Aiming at maintain
people's awareness of HIV/AIDS and prevention measures, promote behavior
changes for safe sex practices and risk reduction. It will be done through
national and community campaigns.
B. Prevention in high-risk groups and general population
This component would finance activities to identify high-risk groups (CSW,
MSM, uniformed personnel, migrant workers, and hotel and tourism workers)
and their informal networks (e.g. through participatory mapping), in order
to target them with prevention and behavioral change interventions. For
both, target groups and the general population, the project would support
IEC and awareness campaigns, Voluntary Counseling and Testing services,
condom distribution, prevention of MTCT, and STI management. A strong
emphasis will be laid on youths (both in and out of school).
Improved Management of Biomedical Wastes: Although the size and type of
services provided by the project do not pose threat to health personnel,
patients, or the community, the project would finance the strengthening of
the biomedical waste management system in public health facilities,
including equipment, training, technical assistance and new facilities for
the treatment and disposal of bio-medical wastes.
C. Access to Treatment, Care and Support for PLWA
The project would support capacity strengthening and upgrading current
services available for providing treatment, care and support for PLWA,
through: a) management of opportunistic infections and palliative care;
b) introduction of HAART; c) strengthening heath facilities/laboratory
capacity; d) pharmacy strengthening; and d) home and community-based care
for PLWA.
D. Surveillance, Epidemiology and Research
The project would support a new information system, which would: (i)
protect the confidentiality of medical records assuring patient privacy
through encrypted technology; (ii) improve the quality of the information
allowing for cross reference analysis from multiple databases being
implemented; and (iii) support decision making in case management,
particularly for ART but also for STIs in general, by providing secured
online real time clinical information.
The project would provide system design, adaptation of available software
and procurement of hardware, installation, provision of IT support and the
training for practitioners, laboratory staff and MOH researchers required
to use the system. It would support second-generation surveillance that
- 3 -



monitors both HIV infection and risk behaviors to inform the trends of the
epidemic. A monitoring and evaluation system will be put in place with
quantifiable indicators.
E. Sustainable Management Response
The project would support the creation and the initial operations of a
"National Council on HIV/AIDS (NCHA)", whose mandate would be to provide
policy guidance to the Prime Minister and his Cabinet, and oversee
implementation and resources mobilization for HIV/AIDS.
The Project would also support the operation of a virtual PCU under the
leadership of a Steering Committee, which would be responsible for project
implementation and periodic briefing to the Cabinet and the NCHA on
project implementation activities (see Implementation Arrangements, below).
Ministries and agencies with operational responsibilities for the program
would designate a "focal point" staff to be responsible for implementing
the agencies' program components.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.28
IBRD $2.60
IDA
Total Project Cost $2.88
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented following annual work programs according
to a calendar that mirrors the preparation of the Government's annual
budget. They would be designed to account for the results obtained in the
prior year's work, the further refinement of needs assessed in vulnerable
groups, an new opportunities and knowledge. The project Operations Manual
would contain guidelines for annual work program preparation and
implementation and would be a condition for effectiveness.
As the impacts of many proposed project activities, especially those that
are directed at changing behavior and attitudes, is difficult to predict,
project activities would be reviewed, added, dropped and modified as
lessons are learned during implementation. Annual progress reviews would
contribute to the use of rolling annual work plans and a mid-term review
will be an important project management tool.
Of particular concern would be St. Kitts/Nevis' ability to introduce and
scale up HAART from its present base. A period of preparation of the
necessary infrastructure, human resources and management platforms would
be necessary for this to occur. The project would provide resources to
support this preparation.
7. Sustainability
Achieving project sustainability would eventually be an outcome of the
development of a sound structure of the NCHA. Once formed, the NCHA would
continue to draw on the Ministry of Finance on financial and
administrative matters and the Ministry of Health on technical matters
thus providing a sustainable framework for the Response. Mainstreaming of
HIV/AIDS prevention and control actions within the regular work programs
of relevant government agencies would be re-enforced through the GOSK
budget process. Results of the assessment on longer-term financial
sustainability of the policy for ART have been very positive.
- 4 -



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project adopts the design features that underpin the Multi-country
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Adaptable Lending Program for the
Caribbean region and takes into account lessons that have proven
successful in other countries. These include the following:
n demonstrating a high level of government commitment and providing clear
national leadership for a project, embodied in a new National
Council                               for HIV/AIDS;
n building collaboration networks with NGOs and community groups as a
complement to public sector agencies;
n incorporating other public and private partners in the implementation of
the project;
n including the focus on treatment and care as a continuum with advocacy
and prevention within the project;
n providing focus on behavior change of specific groups practicing risky
life-styles as a key element of prevention and control; and
n adopting implementation measures that provide flexibility and
responsiveness to the epidemic as it evolves.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Category B.   See Annex on Environmental aspects.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Patricio V. Marquez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8048
Fax:   (202) 522-1201
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 8, 2002.
-5-



