Report No. PID9673
Project Name                     Non-Regional (Global)-Critical Ecosystem Partnership
Fund (CEPF)
Region                           Global
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       1WGE73195
Recipient                        Conservation International
Implementing Agency              Conservation International
Address    2500 M Street, NW, Washington,
DC 20033
Environment Category             FI
Date PID Prepared                October 5, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           October 23, 2000
Project Board Date               December 5, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The CEPF is a global response program targeted to address those critical
ecosystems of the world which are the most biologically rich and currently
under great threat. It will provide timely, strategic and focused assistance
to those globally vital ecosystems in Bank client countries, judged to be the
most threatened in developing countries. The targeted locations include the
following Global Biodiversity Hotspots:
1.      Caucasus
2.      Atlantic Forest
3.      Cape Floristic Region
4.      Choc6-Darien-Western Ecuador
5.      Brazilian Cerrado
6.      Central Chile
7.      Eastern Arc Mountains and Coastal Forests Tanzania and Kenya
8.      Guinean Forests of West Africa
9.      Mountains of South-Central China
10.     Indo-Burma
11.     Madagascar and Indian Ocean Islands
12.     Mesoamerica
13.     Philippines
14.     Polynesia/Micronesia
15.     Succulent Karoo
16.     Sundaland
17.     Tropical Andes
18.     Wallacea
19.     Western Ghats and Sri Lanka
20.     Caribbean *
21.     California Floristic Province *
22.     Mediterranean *
23.     New Caledonia *
24.     New Zealand *
25.     Southwest Australia *



* These areas include countries not eligible for CEPF funding through the
World Bank.
The CEPF offers an opportunity to promote the conservation of some of the
most important ecosystems in the world?places of high biodiversity and great
beauty. In addition, the importance of meeting conservation goals is
enhanced by the growing recognition of the multiple benefits provide by
healthy, diverse ecosystems in areas such as agriculture, forestry, water
supply and fisheries, issues critical to the Bank's contribution to poverty
alleviation. The unprecedented rate of biodiversity loss is destroying
opportunities for development, is a major cause of poverty, and is
threatening the ability of the entire planet to support life. Since most
species have not even yet been described, loosing them is like burning a
library without knowing what the books are about. The chemical substances of
many of these species no doubt contain the cure for cancer and AIDS, in the
same way as they have already given us penicillin and quinine.
2. Objectives
The protection of the earth's biological diversity is one the highest
priorities for long-term global well-being. The loss of species and natural
habitat is proceeding at an alarming pace, with unknown but potentially
disastrous future consequences. The Critical Ecosystems Partnership Fund
(CEPF) takes aim at this global problem by providing timely, strategic
assistance for conservation work in the planet's most biologically rich and
threatened ecosystems.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Although the Bank's portfolio in support of ecosystem and biodiversity
conservation shows a combined investment (including loans, GEF-implemented
funds, counter-part funding and co-funding), in the order of U.S.$2.6 billion
since 1988, much more needs to be done. The CEPF targets twenty-one critical
areas with high biodiversity importance and high degree of threat (out of 25
of these "hotspots"). This approach aims at achieving maximum impact with
limited resources: the hotspots amount to just 1.44t of the land surface of
the planet; nevertheless, the concentration of terrestrial biodiversity in
them is enormously high, including a staggering 131,399 vascular plants that
are endemic to them, representing 44t of all plants on Earth. Under
conservative calculations, at least 65t and more likely 70, or more of all
vascular plants occur within these hotspots. Similarly, for birds, mammals,
reptiles and amphibians, at least 62w, and perhaps 70- or more occur in the
1.44t of Earth's land surface occupied by the hotspots.
The CEPF complements existing Bank tools through strengthening our ability to
(i) better engage the non-profit private sector; (ii) engage small grassroot
or community based groups at priority sites; (iii) build national awareness
and support for critical sites. The CEPF fills this missing niche,
particularly through: (i) targeting key sites that harbor a disproportionate
percentage of biodiversity in the world; (ii) smaller amounts of money spread
over a greater number of recipients; (iii) more flexibility and speed; (iv)
building awareness and emphasizing communication aspects at national levels.
The Bank's comparative strengths in dealing with macro and sectoral strategy
and policy will compliment the more micro-oriented field-based interventions
funded under the CEPF. The CEPF would be a unique program given its focus and
targeted clients.
-2-



4. Description
This program is a global response to conserve those critical ecosystems of
the world which are the most biologically rich and currently under great
threat. The CEPF will provide timely, strategic and focused assistance to
those globally vital ecosystems in Bank client countries, judged to be most
threatened in developing countries.
The CEPF will deliver assistance in an agile manner; it will allow the
engagement of a wide range of local community groups, civil society
organizations, NGOs and private companies in addressing conservation needs.
Funds will be utilized to provide small scale grants to conservation projects
managed by private, NGO and civil society groups working in the critical
ecosystems. Funding at the project level will result in significant financial
leverage both through financial and in-kind contributions.
CI has long been the main advocate of the hotspot approach to biodiversity
conservation. The organization has earned a strong reputation with
governments, other non-governmental organizations and the private sector for
its creativity, effectiveness and results orientation. Furthermore, CI has a
strong network of offices and partners in many of the hotspots as well as a
wealth of information and operational experience in many of these areas.
Indeed, one of the strongest points of the CEPF is its proponent.
Conservation International is a results-oriented, highly effective NGO
because of the flexibility of its approaches, and its ability to effectively
engage governments and the private sector in finding consensus-based
solutions to the complex problems affecting biodiversity.
BCIS is the largest consortium of biodiversity institutions that collects,
integrates and maintains biodiversity data and information. BCIS comprises 12
international organizations worldwide and it has unparalleled experience in
biodiversity information systems. BCIS will be contracted to assemble and
link relevant information on each ecosystem and it will be linked to the
Bank's knowledge management node of biodiversity and the GEF.
5. Financing
Funding for the core fund of the CEPF is expected to be shared between the
principle partners (World Bank, GEF and CI at the moment). Each is expected
to contribute around $5 million a year over a period of five years. Based on
a minimum of four donors, the CEPF would commit approximately $20 million a
year. The Bank has already contributed $1.5 million from the President's
Contingency Fund in May of this year to enable CI to undertake preparatory
activities for the CEPF's launch, and has committed to contribute $5 million
a year during the subsequent five fiscal years from the Bank's DGF, subject
to established procedures, for the operation of the fund.
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a 5 year period. The proposed management
arrangements for the CEPF have been delineated taking into the account the
following principles:
Arrangements must be consistent with the CEPF philosophy of rapid
disbursement in the field, decentralization, flexibility, efficiency, and
minimal bureaucracy.
-3-



Arrangement must permit the Bank to uphold its safeguard and other
institutional policies with a minimum risk of liability to the institution.
Arrangements must permit the Bank to effectively engage the regions in the
dialogue with CI at the ecosystem level to maximize opportunities for
mainstreaming and to influence the country dialogue process.
The Bank will treat the CEPF in a manner similar to a Conservation Trust Fund
(financial intermediary). Bank-administered funds (DGF and GEF) will be
released into the CEPF Account on a quarterly basis, using the Program
Management Report-based (PMR) disbursement procedures and after CI matching
funds have been released into that Account. An initial advance of six months
of the first year's estimated expenditures will be released into the account
upon effectiveness.
Operationally, the Bank will review each Ecosystem Profile before it goes to
the Donor Council based on agreed-upon criteria and emphasizing compliance
with Bank policies, including safeguards. The Bank will also review the CEPF
Annual Reports which will include descriptions of activities funded and
issues pertinent to the Bank's safeguard policies.
The Bank and the GEF will be represented on the "CEPF Donor Council ," which
will be a high-level group of eminent institutional representatives, and
would be the main governance structure of the CEPF, to oversee the broad
strategic direction of the CEPF. The Council will review, approve and if
necessary amend, the Ecosystem Profiles prepared and presented to it by CI,
and will also approva an Annual Spending Plan for preparation and
implementation of the Ecosystem Profiles. The Council will act by unanimous
vote. The Bank will ensure that country operations staff (including country
directors, where appropriate) are fully apprised of CEPF funding strategies
and will be encouraged to coordinate them within regular lending activities
(especially in sectors such as forestry, land management, agriculture and GEF
projects).
CI will serve as manager of the CEPF. CI will prepare profiles of each of the
critical ecosystems, identifying main threats to sustainability, key
organizations working in the ecosystems and opportunities for funding. These
Ecosystem Profiles together with endorsements from GEF focal points in the
countries concerned -- will be approved by the CEPF Donor Council. On the
basis of strategic guidance by the CEPF Donor Council, CI will manage the
wholesaling of projects through local ecosystem facilities, designed for each
ecosystem. CI will deliver an Annual Report as well as certified audited
accounts to the CEPF Donor Council.
Supervision: The Bank will review the initiative at three levels:
By sitting on CEPF's Council to ensure that Ecosystem Profiles (which include
a description of the types of activities to be financed in each ecosystem)
and funding strategies are consistent with overall, broad strategic
philosophy of the program;
Review of CEPF annual report, which will outline issues regarding the World
Bank safeguard policies;
-4-



(iii)      Spot checks on projects in the program as needed.
7. Sustainability
The CEPF will contribute to not only the environmental sustainability of each
of the hotspot ecosystems, but also institutional sustainability through
capacity building at many levels in particular for local NGOs and
communities. The project aims to strengthen existing collaboration between
NGOs, communities, the private sector and governments.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the sector
The Critical Ecosystems Partnership Fund (CEPF) aims to provide timely,
strategic assistance for conservation work in the planet's most biologically
rich and threatened ecosystems. The CEPF represents a new to create a new
biodiversity funding instrument that combines technical and financial
strength, field knowledge, administrative agility and flexibility, and a
knowledge system to facilitate information communication. The combination of
these strengths will allow the CEPF to provide a significant total amount of
targeted funding in small- to medium-sized field projects in a more
streamlined fashion than has been possible to date.
Despite scattered successes, providing this sort of modest-scale, narrowly
targeted and expeditious assistance for privately implemented biodiversity
conservation has proven a significant challenge for international financial
institutions, including the World Bank. The CEPF is a new strategy for
project delivery that attempts to overcome typical obstacles and delay
through a non-traditional set of working arrangements between the Bank and
private non-governmental organizations (NGOs). CEPF will make grants to the
leading international, national, regional and local NGOs in the world's most
critically threatened ecosystems in Bank client countries. It will target the
most effective organizations in each ecosystem in order to strengthen its
ability to alter the course of each eco-region's degradation.
The basic approach of the CEPF is to allocate authority, responsibility and
accountability purposefully and strategically among three very different
institutions, according to their particular strengths and capabilities.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention ? N
10. Environmental Aspects
Issues: The CEPF program is designed specifically to benefit the environment.
It focuses on the conservation of the remaining natural ecosystems that are
still richly endowed with an extraordinary diversity of unique plant and
animal species. Most are known as "biodiversity hotspots" because their
abundant variety of life faces extreme risk. Protecting these natural
resources is vital to the prosperity, health and well being of future
generations.
The Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF) advances the global
conservation agenda on several fronts. The purpose of the Fund is to serve as
a catalyst to create strategic working alliances among diverse groups
helping them to combine unique capacities and eliminating duplication of
efforts for a comprehensive, coordinated approach to conservation challenges.
Investments support such projects as managing of protected areas and
coordinating biodiversity corridors; training; transnational planning;
encouraging local dialogue with extractive industries; engaging in conflict
- 5 -



resolution; priority setting and consensus building; strengthening indigenous
organizations and facilitating partnerships between the private and public
sector.
Given this aim of the CEPF, the project will have overall positive
environmental impact by conservation biodiversity and improving natural
resource management and use. Potential environmental and/or social impact
issues that may arise during the screening of applications for sub-projects
could include:
the increase in recreational use of protected areas which may result in minor
increases in noise, wildlife disturbance and refuse management;
the small-scale construction and/or renovation of protected area or tourism
infrastructure (e.g. trails and administration or tourism infrastructure),
but if sited well will have minor direct impacts on flora and fauna;
inadequate understanding of sustainable forest management applications;
and/or
changes in natural resources management, zoning and regulations that could
impact local livelihoods and/or tenure arrangements.
The CI will screen proposed sub-projects and ensure that recipients of grants
carry out appropriate environmental assessments.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager: Gonzalo Castro
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel: 202-473-1107
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel- 202-458-5454
FAX-202-522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Only occurring there and nowhere else on the planet.
Referred to in the DGF and GEF proposal as the "Advisory Committee."
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 17, 2000.
- 6 -



