                        Document of
                      The World Bank




                                             Report No: ICR0000438




       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (WBTF-24879)




                           ON A

                          CREDIT

        IN THE AMOUNT OF US $25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                          TO THE

               CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL

                          FOR A

           CRITICAL ECOSYSTEM PARTNERSHIP FUND




                        June 18, 2007




ENV

Global

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective 00000000)

                         Currency Unit =
                          1.00 = US$ [ ]
                         US$ 1.00 = [ ]

                          FISCAL YEAR


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BCIS    =  Biodiversity Conservation Information System
CAPE    =  Cape Action for People and the Environment
CAS     =  Country Assistance Strategy
CEPF    =  Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund
CI      =  Conservation International
DGF     =  Development Grant Facility
FY      =  Fiscal Year
GCF     =  Global Conservation Fund
GEF     =  Global Environment Facility
GEO     =  Global Environment Objectives
IBRD    =  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ISR     =  Information Status and Results Report
GIS     =  Geographic Information System
LCU     =  Local Coordination Unit
M&E     =  Monitoring & Evaluation
MOP     =  Memorandum and Recommendation of the President
MSP     =  Medium Sized Project
NGO     =  Non-Governmental Organization
PA-METT =  Protected Areas ­ Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool
PAD     =  Project Appraisal Document
PSR     =  Project Status Report
RIT     =  Regional Implementation Team
STAP    =  Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
WWF     =  World Wide Fund for Nature

     Vice President: Kathy Sierra
   Country Director: Warren Evans
    Sector Manager:  Laura Tlaiye
Project Team Leader: Kathleen S. Mackinnon
   ICR Team Leader   Karen Luz

                                                      WORLD
                              Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund



                                                  CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
 5.1 Bank........................................................................................................................ 12
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 19
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 20
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 22
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 23
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 24
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 34
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35
 Annex 10. Selected Results of the Project.................................................................... 37
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Critical Ecosystem
Country:               World                   Project Name:
                                                                     Partnership Fund
Project ID:            P073195                 L/C/TF Number(s):     WBTF-24879
ICR Date:              06/19/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     CONSERVATION
Lending Instrument:    FIL                     Borrower:
                                                                     INTERNATIONAL
Original Total
                       USD 25.0M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 25.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F                      Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
Conservation International
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Conservation International Foundation
Development Grant Facility


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:                       Effectiveness:       12/14/2000         12/14/2000
Appraisal:             10/31/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/14/2000     Mid-term Review:                        06/18/2003
                                      Closing:             07/30/2006         06/30/2010


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome             Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                 Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:            Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:                Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                  50               50
Other social services                                             50               50


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Biodiversity                                                     Primary         Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                          Primary         Primary
Participation and civic engagement                              Secondary       Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Katherine Sierra                    Ian Johnson
Country Director:         James Warren Evans                  Robert T. Watson
Sector Manager:           Laura E. Tlaiye                     Lars O. Vidaeus
Project Team Leader:      Kathleen S. Mackinnon               Gonzalo Castro
ICR Team Leader:          Karen Anne Luz
ICR Primary Author:       Karen Anne Luz




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The conservation of ecosystems in 19 globally important hotspots, protecting or
enhancing the multiple benefits provided by them to agriculture, forestry, water supply
and fisheries, and other sectors critical to the Bank's contribution to poverty alleviation.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications




(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                                documents)         Values        Target Years
                 Biodiversity indicators for monitoring during implementation were not
Indicator 1 :    developed as part of project design. Indicators and outcomes were developed for
                 each hotspot profile.

Value                                                                         9,393,687 hectares

(quantitative or 0                          Target not set                    of new and

Qualitative)                                                                  expanded protected
                                                                              areas
Date achieved 12/14/2000                    12/15/2000                        04/30/2007
Comments         Investments made in 15 regions. Biodiversity outcomes were collated at hotspot
(incl. %         level after 5 year investments ­ see annex 10 and reports on CEPF website
achievement)     (www.cepf.net)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised      Completion or
                                                documents)     Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Biodivesity is conserved in a verifiable manner.
                                                                              9,393,687 hectares
                                                                              of new and
                                                                              expanded protected

Value                                       Target not set                    areas, including

(quantitative or 0                          (later measured                   strengthened

Qualitative)                                with GEF PA-                      management
                                            METT)
                                                                              21,466,382 hectares
                                                                              of existing
                                                                              protected areas with



                                                 iii

                                                                                more effective
                                                                                management
Date achieved 12/14/2000                    12/15/2000                          04/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Biodiversity outcomes were assessed for individual hotspots, including nine

achievement)     hotspots where grant-making closed after 5 year investments, ­ see annex 10

Indicator 2 :    The intended/articulated impact of each recipient organization is increased.
Value
(quantitative or No data                    Target not set
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/14/2000                    12/15/2000
Comments         Grants given to more than more than 1000 civil society organizations, but
(incl. %         difficult to measure impact and sustainability ­ see individual Assessment
achievement)     Reports on CEPF website (www.cepf.net)

Indicator 3 :    The ability to monitor and measure impact and performance of each recipient
                 organization is improved.
Value
(quantitative or No data                    Target not set
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/14/2000                    12/15/2000
Comments         Grants given to more than more than 1000 civil society organizations, but
(incl. %         difficult to measure impact and sustainability ­ see individual Assessment
achievement)     Reports on CEPF website (www.cepf.net)
                 At least five actors change policies or practices to be more compatible with
Indicator 4 :    biodiversity conservation as a result of information generated from CEPF
                 investments.
                                                                                Policies, regulation
Value                                                                           and development
(quantitative or 0                           5                                  plans influenced in
Qualitative)                                                                    at least 10
                                                                                countries.
Date achieved 12/14/2000                    12/15/2000                          04/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         See annex 10 for examples.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    At least one additional partner added that provides US$5 million per year.
Value
(quantitative or 0                          1                                   2
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/14/2000                    12/15/2000                          04/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         The MacArthur Foundation joined the CEPF in 2001 and the Government of

achievement)     Japan joined in 2002, both committing US$25 million over five years.

Indicator 6 :    Better consideration of ecological considerations important for each hotspot in
                 the World Bank's country dialogue.
Value
(quantitative or No data                     Target not set
Qualitative)



                                                 iv

Date achieved 12/14/2007                 12/15/2000

Comments       Good synergies between CEPF activities and World Bank operations recorded in

(incl. %       only a few countries. For example in Brazil the CEPF is mentioned in the 2003

achievement)   CAS; Complementarity CEPF activities in South Africa and Bank operations and
               country dialogue



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived              GEO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     11/28/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.50
  2     12/21/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.50
  3     06/19/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.50
  4     10/17/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.50
  5     01/07/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    15.95
  6     11/12/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    15.95
  7     08/19/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    20.26
  8     03/20/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    25.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                             v

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The World Bank, the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and Conservation International
(CI) launched the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF) in 2000 to initiate a
global program to address the Earth' biodiversity hotspots, the world's biologically
richest and most threatened ecosystems. These critical areas for conservation are also
home to millions of rural people who are highly dependent on healthy ecosystems for
their livelihoods and wellbeing.

Conservation cannot be accomplished without engaging the people who live in and
around these high biodiversity areas and whose livelihoods depend on them. The CEPF
was established to provide strategic assistance to engage non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), community groups, and other civil society partners in conserving Earth's
biodiversity hotspots. The CEPF framework is consistent with the objectives of the
Environment Strategy to improve management of the global commons. It is also
consistent with the Bank's emphasis on partnerships to deliver development outcomes.
The partnership theme is reflected in the governance structure of the CEPF with the
Fund supervised by a Donor Council, representing all the donors.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The GEF Goal in the CEPF log frame in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President (MOP) is "enhanced biodiversity conservation and sustainable use within each
ecosystem funded by CEPF". This would be measured against relevant biodiversity
indicators to be selected for each ecosystem profile. Intermediate key performance
indicators include the following: (i) biodiversity is conserved in a verifiable manner; (ii)
the intended/articulated impact of each recipient organization is increased; (iii) the ability
to monitor and measure impact and performance of each recipient organization is
improved; (iv) at least 5 actors change policies or practices to be more compatible with
biodiversity conservation as a result of information generated from CEPF investments;
(v) at least one additional partner added that provides US$5 million per year; and (vi)
better consideration of ecological considerations important for each hotspot in the World
Bank's country dialogue.

In addition, during project implementation a log frame was developed for each
investment region, as part of the ecosystem profile (see Section 1.5 below). Each
individual log frame had specific objectives and indicators for that region which guided
project implementation. The Donor Council approved the log frames for the individual
ecosystems.




                                              1

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification
The GEO and indicators were never formally revised with Board approval. However, by
the time of the first ISR, the GEF goal had been refined to the more precise GEO that has
been used during project implementation: "The conservation of ecosystems in 19
globally important hotspots, protecting or enhancing the multiple benefits provided by
them to agriculture, forestry, water supply and fisheries, and other sectors critical to the
Bank's contribution to poverty alleviation."

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries were the civil society grantees in the hotspots, those local
communities that rely on biodiversity for their livelihoods and the global community. The
biodiversity hotspots are inhabited by millions of people, of which many are
impoverished and highly dependent on healthy ecosystems for their survival. By
supporting projects that combined community development and livelihood opportunities
with biodiversity conservation, the CEPF aimed to provide valuable long-term
opportunities for sustainable development. CEPF also brought benefits to local civil
society organizations, in the form of improved capacity to fulfill their mission of
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of natural resources.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Three components were identified in the original project log frame: training, funding, and
information/knowledge

1.6 Revised Components N/A
As with the GEO, early in implementation the project components were refined, although
not substantively changed, to the components subsequently used for project reporting in
PSRs/ISRs. The components used for reporting were the following:

Component 1: Grants
The CEPF awarded grants to civil society groups for strengthening protection and
management of key biodiversity areas within the hotspots. Grants were also used to
empower civil society actors to take part in, and influence, decisions affecting
conservation in the hotspots.

Component 2: Ecosystem profile preparation
This component supported the development of the ecosystem profiles as strategic
business planning and implementation documents for the partnership and wider
conservation community. The ecosystem profile contained a description of the area,
including threats and opportunities for conservation, existing funding from other donors,
and a proposed three-year CEPF funding strategy to guide investment in the region (later
revised to a five year strategy). The profiles included log frames identifying indicators
and expected conservation outcomes. A GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
(STAP) review was to be conducted of each of the Ecosystem Profiles.

Component 3: Business development, management, grant making
This component supported the overall execution and administration of the CEPF. The
Secretariat managed the funding for each hotspot and supported sub-projects through


                                               2

Local Coordination Units (LCU), which could have different arrangements based on local
circumstances and needs. The Secretariat was responsible for overall strategic and
financial management, oversight and reporting for the global program, monitoring and
reporting, ensuring that all project activities were in compliance with Donor Council
decisions and the Operational Manual, and seeking co-financing.

Component 4: Monitoring and evaluation, information and knowledge management
The objectives of this component were to develop a system for monitoring and evaluation
of the project, and a system for information and knowledge management. CEPF would
use a knowledge information system built, shared, and used by different players,
including the donors, the project managers and project executors and other collaborators.
The Biodiversity Conservation Information System (BCIS) would take the lead on
building and managing of the system. For reasons unrelated to CEPF, BCIS was
dissolved during the program's second year. Information and knowledge management
subsequently became a primary function of the CEPF Secretariat management team.

1.7 Other significant changes
Institutional arrangements: In its first meeting (2000) the Donor Council agreed to
establish a Technical Working Group, representing all the Donors and charged, among
other tasks, with discussing and providing technical input to ecosystem profiles.
Accordingly, GEF decided to eliminate the need for STAP reviews of the ecosystem
profiles as there was already adequate technical review of profiles.

Addition of donors: The MacArthur Foundation joined the CEPF in 2001 and the
Government of Japan joined in 2002, both committing $25 million over five years. in
2003, the Financing Agreement was amended and extended in order to accommodate the
new donors, and the grant-making period for each hotspot was extended from three to
five years.

Funding and scope of project: The Donor Council subsequently agreed to restrict
investments to 15 instead of 19 hotspots, based on the available financing of $125 million.
Nevertheless, ecosystem profiles were also prepared for another four regions, but the
Council agreed to delay investments in those hotspots until a sixth donor was secured.
These regions will be the first implemented under CEPF-2.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Geographic prioritization: A key factor affecting the success of this project was the use
of the hotspot methodology to determine geographic priorities for investment. Hotspots
are characterized by high biodiversity (measured by high plant endemism) and by a high
degree of threat (less than 30% of the original habitat remaining). Together, the complete
suite of CI hotspots is home to 75% of the planet's most threatened mammals, birds, and
amphibians. In using the hotspots to identify priority sites, and in developing the
ecosystem profile methodology as a strategic planning tool to guide investments at
particular sites, CEPF drew upon best practice and lessons learned in the larger



                                                3

conservation community. Preparation of the profiles, as strategic investment plans in each
region, involved broad stakeholder consultations and hence buy-in.

Phasing: Another aspect of project design that enhanced quality of entry was the
phasing of new investment regions throughout the implementation period. Mechanisms
such as developing ecosystem profiles in a phased fashion and Donor Council approval
of new profile and Annual Spending Plans allowed a flexible approach consistent with
individual hotspot needs and absorptive capacity and the financial resources available to
the fund as new donors gradually joined. By close of the first GEF Grant, in FY07, grant-
making programs had closed in nine of the 15 targeted regions.

GEO/Log frame: The GEO and log frame as originally formulated were meant to
capture the overall impact of multiple activities and outcomes from individual hotspots
and sub-projects. Perhaps inevitably, the formulation of indicators at the macro level was
not as precise and meaningful as that of the objectives and indicators at the hotspot and
sub-project levels. Monitoring and evaluation data demonstrate that the project did
substantively achieve the intention of its original goals and objectives, even if these were
not very precisely formulated in the original project design.

Risk assessment: The risk analysis in the MOP was a realistic presentation of the risks
that were apparent at the time of project design, and reasonable actions were undertaken
to mitigate the identified risks. The principal risks identified and mitigating actions
proposed were the following:
(i) Compliance with Bank safeguards, since CI would be the project executing agency.
Mitigation measures included procedures, outlined in the Operational Manual, for
selection and legal arrangements of sub-projects; Donor Council oversight of ecosystem
profiles; exclusion of certain activities; safeguards training for CEPF staff from Bank
staff, and ex-post review by the Bank.
(ii) Stakeholder perception of inadequate consultation in the development of the
ecosystem funding strategy. To mitigate this risk, all ecosystem profiles would include
stakeholder consultation strategies.
(iii) Conflict of interest. Project design specified that up to 50% of the implementing
grant funds available for each ecosystem could go to CI's own field offices where it was
deemed that CI had a comparative advantage. To mitigate the risk of conflict of interest,
the Annual Spending Plan submitted for approval by the Donor Council would
specifically highlight programs to be implemented by CI itself.

While the first two risks were adequately addressed in project design, mitigation
measures for the third were not as successful. In retrospect, it appears that the measures
put in place in the Memorandum of Understanding, Financing Agreement, and
Operational Manual were inadequate and the perception of conflict of interest haunted
project implementation, despite the fact that the CEPF followed the agreed procedures.

2.2 Implementation
Adaptive management: A notable characteristic of CEPF implementation has been the
staff's willingness and ability to learn from experience and to adapt their approach based
on that experience. For instance, when CEPF staff observed that grant application


                                               4

procedures were proving burdensome, procedures were modified to allow applicants to
write a simple Letter of Inquiry and receive an initial response on project suitability,
before undertaking the preparation of a full-blown proposal. Similarly, the process and
methodology for producing the ecosystem profiles was continually refined, and later
exercises showed substantial improvement. This learning-by-doing approach was made
possible by the phased timing of work in the different hotspots. Early hotspots functioned
as pilots, while later ones reaped the benefits of experience. Even though the project was
being implemented in multiple hotspots around the globe, the central CEPF staff made
sure that lessons learned from different approaches were communicated and utilized.

Programs adapted to hotspots: Another factor that contributed positively to
implementation success was a commitment to adapting the project to the widely different
circumstances prevailing in each hotspot. While certain characteristics of the overall
program were used everywhere, the emphasis varied from place to place. For instance, in
the Upper Guinean Forest Ecosystem, where civil society is weak, the project focused a
significant amount of resources on strengthening local civil society organizations. In the
Atlantic Forest, with a well-developed NGO sector, more resources were directed
towards harnessing that NGO-capacity and expanding the availability of funds to smaller
organizations through a dedicated on-granting mechanism. Similarly, in both the Atlantic
Forest and the Cape Floristic Region, where much remaining natural habitat is in private
hands, the project devoted significant resources to working with private landowners.

Coherence of grant portfolios: An on-demand grant program can suffer from a lack of
coherence at the portfolio level. In many hotspots, CEPF sought to address this potential
issue by identifying one or several large "anchor" sub-projects that would be
implemented by an experienced group, and putting together a portfolio of medium-size
and smaller grants to complement it. This allowed experimentation and risk-taking with
more untried groups, while guaranteeing a core program that was likely to be able to
deliver on its objectives.

Institutional factors: Several factors contributed to effective project implementation. CI
provided a variety of coordination, implementation, scientific and administrative services
to CEPF at both headquarters and field level. This relationship with the parent
organization brought many positive benefits, including the ability to leverage additional
funds from other CI programs to complement CEPF activities. Involvement of national
programs of CI and other international NGOs as Local Coordination Units within
individual hotspots built on key local expertise and was praised in the 2006 evaluation as
"one of the key strengths of the CEPF". The evaluation recognized the LCUs for their
ability to link "smaller grassroots activities, larger projects, policy initiatives,
international collaboration, sustainable financing and other key elements of
comprehensive, vertically-integrated conservation portfolios". In addition, the
governance structure, especially the oversight and advice from the Donor Council and its
Technical Working Group, contributed substantially to adaptability during project
implementation, enabling the CEPF to respond to new opportunities and replicate
successful initiatives.




                                                5

Responses to mid-term review: The mid-term review in June 2003 was generally
positive, but it also identified several areas for improvement. Most have been
expeditiously addressed; a few required ongoing efforts and eventually changes in
program design for the second phase of CEPF. Among the latter are the following:
· Create better synergies between CEPF and donor programs: In 2005, the project
    held three regional workshops with Bank staff to identify opportunities for greater
    synergies and collaboration between the Bank's operations and CEPF.
· Minimize the perception of conflict of interest in terms of CI's dual role as grant-
    maker and grantee by adhering strictly to the requirement that CI not get special
    preference as a grantee or exercise undue influence over the grant-making process:
    The perception of a conflict of interest was an issue throughout the first phase of
    CEPF, and the 2006 evaluation concluded that "it would be hard to argue
    convincingly that CI has been treated like any other potential grantee, as required by
    the CEPF Operational Manual". The original financing agreement allowed CI to
    access up to 50% of the global grant. In practice, as CEPF moved into new regions
    and engaged more partners, CI's overall share of grants fell to 26% by March 2007.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E design: The original log frame for the project in the MOP was never revised to
correspond to the more precisely worded GEO and revised project components developed
during early project implementation. The early log frame was written in general terms
and lacked specific, verifiable targets for some indicators. In practice, project progress
was measured against individual log frames created for each hotspot as part of the
ecosystem profiles. Some of these earlier log frames were revised during project
implementation to strengthen indicators and expected outcomes.

M&E implementation: CEPF reported on different levels of accomplishment at different
time intervals. Quarterly and annual progress reports focused on specific achievements by
sub-projects at the hotspot level. The five-year assessments, finalized in 2006/2007 for
nine hotspots, report against the ecosystem profile log frames. In later years, CEPF also
reported annually at the hotspot level against the standard GEF biodiversity indicators,
including new hectares of protected areas, hectares of protected areas under improved
management, and other measurements of improved biodiversity conservation. At the
overall project level, in effect these measures were substituted for the original key
performance indicators (see Annex 10).

CEPF was diligent about requiring monitoring of the use of grant funds. Consequently,
the program managed a great deal of data about the outcomes of specific sub-projects,
which it aggregated up and reported on as a way of assessing hotspot and project level
outcomes. CEPF was a model of transparency in making publicly available on its website
(www.cepf.net) information about grants and awardees, including final reports from sub-
projects, as well as a wealth of other information.

M&E utilization: CEPF did an admirable job of practicing adaptive management based
on informal analysis of implementation experience. This was particularly true at the
regional level, with several regions benefiting from regular stakeholder meetings to share



                                                6

lessons learned and develop and share guidelines on key issues, such as conservation
stewardship. Nevertheless, more formal analysis of project-level data and sharing of
information across the whole portfolio would have further strengthened CEPF's adaptive
management capacity.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Individual grantees and sub-projects were legally bound by Bank safeguards. Procedures
for compliance were outlined in an operational manual that describes the responsibilities
of CI and grantees and procedures for sub-project implementation; it explicitly excludes
certain activities. The Bank also undertook ex-ante reviews of each ecosystem profile and
ex-post review of projects using CEPF reports, and field visits. The Bank also provided
several trainings for CEPF staff at the beginning of the project to ensure that they
understood the safeguards and were able to apply them to sub-projects. In the few cases
where safeguards were triggered, mitigation measures were put into place. For instance, a
CEPF project for gazettement of the Derema Forest Reserve in Tanzania was
complemented with a broader package of benefits to local farmers to mitigate reduced
access to resources.

CEPF monitoring ensured fiduciary compliance. By the end of FY07 all three original
donors (CI, Bank and GEF) had made their full commitment of US$25 million to the
CEPF. The costs of the CEPF Secretariat were less than 13% of the total Fund.
Administration costs for individual sub-projects were also capped at 13% of the grants.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The CEPF is a program with different donors funding different time slices. Although
Bank contributions through GEF and DGF have been completed in FY07, later donor
contributions are only partially disbursed. Because of the phased start-up approach for
different hotspots, grant-making and implementation is still ongoing in six of the hotspots
initiated under the first phase (e.g., Eastern Himalayas will conclude in 2009).

The independent evaluation recommended that the Donors continue and expand the
Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund. Accordingly, at the invitation of the GEF CEO, a
project (CEPF-2) for a second GEF grant was submitted to the GEF Council in June 2006
and is expected to become effective in FY08. Another two of the original donors, CI and
MacArthur Foundation, have also made commitments to this second phase and a sixth
donor, l'Agence Française de Développement, has joined the partnership. The new phase
of the program is designed for a $100 million investment in 14 hotspots, with expansion
into at least nine new hotspots and consolidation activities in some earlier programs to
promote sustainability. Building on recommendations from the independent evaluation
all new investments would be guided by revised institutional arrangements to further
devolve responsibilities to Regional Implementation Teams (RIT) at the local level. To
avoid potential conflict of interest, no organization acting as a RIT will be eligible for
grants in that hotspot and CI staff will be recused from any decision concerning CI grants
and programs.




                                               7

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project was, and continues to be, highly relevant to the global development objective
of biodiversity conservation. CEPF was targeted to key regions of global biodiversity
importance, as identified through CI's hotspot methodology. In addition, the approach of
working through civil society groups is widely acknowledged as an important element of
conservation strategy in countries which often lack adequate budget, capacity, and in
some cases, political will for conservation. Creating strong local civil society
organizations is widely seen as a key part of ensuring the sustainability of conservation
efforts in those areas.

The project has contributed to Bank operations in several ways. Early mobilization of
CEPF grants and "pre-investment" in capacity building in the Cape Floristic Region
benefited preparation and implementation of the Cape Action for People and
Environment project (C.A.P.E.), and tested guidelines and methodologies to be rolled
out under the larger Bank project. The close relationship between CEPF and CAPE
provided excellent opportunities for cross-learning and expanded conservation activities
across a broader geographic area. CEPF grants complemented and extended Bank-funded
activities. For instance, in Madagascar, the project supported development of community
forest management plans and community management of wetlands, complementing the
Bank's Second Environment Program there. CEPF involvement in many hotspots helped
to leverage additional funding resources, including from the Global Conservation Fund
(GCF), also managed by CI. Thus, GCF provided funding for land purchases of critical
biological corridors which strengthened the viability of the Namaqua National Park in
South Africa, where the Bank was funding a Medium Sized Project (MSP) to strengthen
park management. Finally, in all the regions of the CEPF, grants built the capacity of
local actors, strengthening stakeholder capacity for future Bank endeavors in those areas.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
The 2006 independent evaluation and later assessments in hotspots confirm that
substantial progress has been made towards better conservation ­ see reports available on
www.cepf.net. CEPF has completed grant-making in nine regions while grant-making
remains active in six regions approved for investment since July 2002. In total (by March
2007), CEPF has committed $89.8 million in direct grants to more than 600 civil society
groups in 33 countries in South and Central America (4 hotspots, $28.9 million), Africa
and Madagascar (5 hotspots, $28.8 million), the Caucasus ($7 million), and East Asia (4
hotspots, $25.1 million). Special re-granting programs in some regions bring the number
of groups supported by CEPF to more than 1,000.

Measuring long-term conservation outcomes and relating them to specific short-term
investments such as the CEPF is notoriously difficult. Standard GEF biodiversity
indicators can be used as a proxy measure of contributions towards biodiversity
conservation (see Annex 10). At the hotspot level, the ecosystem profile for each hotspot
had its own log frame and the assessment for each funding region reported data against
its ecosystem profile indicators. A review of the assessments shows that many or most
hotspots reported accomplishments in the following areas: strengthening biodiversity


                                             8

corridors; creation and/or expansion of protected areas, including private and community-
managed areas; strengthening protected areas management; fostering cooperation among
stakeholders, including creating new networks among partners; civil society capacity-
building and increased civil society engagement in conservation; promoting sustainable
development practices; increasing scientific knowledge/biological monitoring;
identifying long-term financing; and building conservation awareness. Examples of
specific results include the following:

Protected areas: These were a major focus of CEPF interventions. Project portfolios
have supported the creation or expansion, consolidation, and improved planning and
management of protected area networks based on the identification of key biodiversity
areas and biodiversity conservation corridors. As of March 2007, CEPF had contributed
to the creation or expansion of 9.4 million hectares of protected areas in 15 countries, a
very significant achievement in some of the most globally important areas for
biodiversity on earth. Many existing protected areas also came under improved
management as a result of CEPF investments, including 559,000 hectares in the Caucasus
Region and some 325,000 hectares in Northern Mesoamerica.

Mainstreaming: CEPF support contributed to improving the sustainable use of
biodiversity in production landscapes through stewardship, improved use and
management of natural resources, the reduction or elimination of practices harmful to
biodiversity, and the development and adoption of a variety of alternative livelihood
opportunities. A key approach has been to strengthen protection of critical biological
corridors within a multiple-use landscape through improved land use planning and other
activities that mainstream conservation into development, including collaboration with
the private sector and developing supportive policy and legislative frameworks.
Innovative payment for environmental services programs have promoted biological
connectivity and restoration in buffer zones of protected areas and corridors while
providing attractive economic incentives for small farmers and landowners to maintain
land uses consistent with conservation. Specific examples of interventions in production
landscapes include the following: agroforestry systems and organic agriculture were
adopted by 25% of private land owners around the Una Biological Reserve in Brazil's
Atlantic Forest; in the Guinean Forests of West Africa hotspot, 1,700 Ghanaian farmers
received training in sustainable cocoa production and agroforestry practices around
Kakum National Park; and in Northern Mesoamerica, more than 242,000 hectares in the
Sierra de las Minas Biosphere Reserve in Guatemala are under improved watershed
management as a result of a water fund payments for environmental services program.

CEPF support has also played an influential role in shaping national and municipal
policies in favor of biodiversity conservation. For example, in the Tumbes-Chocó-
Magdalena region, Colombia integrated the corridor concept into policies of the
Department of National Parks, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of
Transportation, Mining, and Energy. In the Philippines, the National Economic
Development Authority incorporated biodiversity conservation priorities into the newly
updated thirty-year Regional Physical Framework Plan for a key region of the country.




                                             9

At least five Ecosystem Profiles have included strategic directions that specifically target
the private sector (Atlantic Forest, Cape Floristic Region, Madagascar, Succulent Karoo,
and Sundaland), with several achieving significant conservation contributions from
national and international companies in the mining, agribusiness, wine production,
logging, and ecotourism sectors. Sub-projects have also targeted conservation on
indigenous lands, supporting community-based management of protected areas or
indigenous territories. In Panama (Southern Mesoamerica), for example, CEPF funding
helped the Ngöbe-Bugle indigenous people to better manage more than 420,000 hectares
of land in and around the Amistad Biosphere Reserve; and in the Philippines hotspot
CEPF funded the Livelihood Enhancement in Agro-forestry Foundation to help the small
Monobo Indigenous Peoples organization work with local government officials to
develop a co-management plan promoting sustainable watershed management based on
traditional practices of land tenure.

3.3 Efficiency
The CEPF modality was chosen by the donors because it is a nimble and cost-effective
way to get small grants to civil society. CEPF was designed to distribute relatively small
amounts of money to large numbers of civil society partners with varying levels of
institutional sophistication in a flexible and agile fashion. Donors, including the Bank and
the GEF, were well aware that their size, institutional procedures, and focus on
governments limited their ability to accomplish this goal. At the same time, the structure
of the project, including donor representation on both the Donor Council and the
Working Group, ensured that donors remained involved in the major decisions and
informed of the major results of the project.

Overall, some 1,000 civil society organizations received grants, in 15 regions around the
globe. Most grants were relatively small: more than half were under $50,000. The project
was also very efficient in terms of leveraging additional funding: CEPF grant recipients
have reported some $128 million in leveraged funds to date.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome rating is satisfactory. The GEO and the design of the project were,
and continue to be, highly relevant to achieving the conservation of globally important
biodiversity in the Bank's client countries. In particular, the approach of working through
civil society organizations is widely acknowledged as an important ingredient in both
successful conservation and sustainability of conservation efforts. Project implementation
made strong contributions towards conservation in 15 regions of global biodiversity
importance. The project was cost effective and nimble in contrast to the alternative of the
Bank itself creating the same sort of grant mechanism for small civil society
organizations. The 2006 evaluation concluded the following: "This innovative model fills
a unique niche in international biodiversity conservation and is being implemented by a
very professional global team plus partners who have made excellent early progress
towards their long-term goals."

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


                                              10

The CEPF is focused on achieving global environmental objectives. As such, poverty
impacts are presumed to be an indirect and not a direct result of project interventions.
Nevertheless, at the request of the Donor Council, starting in 2005 the project began
conducting an analysis of the linkages with poverty alleviation in individual ecosystems
where it invests. To date, ten of these reports have been completed and are available on
the CEPF website www. cepf.net. The hotspots tend to be areas of higher poverty within
their regional context and there is some evidence that the project contributed to poverty
alleviation, through limited employment opportunities and capacity building, but the data
supporting this conclusion are generally weak.

(b) Institutional Change / Strengthening
The independent evaluation found that capacity building with civil society organizations
was one of the most valuable contributions of the CEPF. Capacity building happened
directly, through training and other opportunities, and indirectly, through participation in
the grant-making process and subsequent sub-project implementation. Since few of the
grantees, especially the less experienced and emerging organizations, had access to
alternative sources of funding, CEPF offered them an invaluable opportunity to develop
their practical skills in applying for grants and in designing and implementing projects.

An additional aspect to this institutional strengthening was the forging of partnerships
and alliances among civil society groups and others, including governments, within each
hotspot. In some cases, groups which had previously worked in an isolated fashion had
the opportunity to work with others, increasing their impact and also the breadth of their
perspective. Several of the partnerships formed under the project will continue beyond
CEPF. Around Tesso Nilo National Park in Sumatra, for example, WWF will continue
working with Jikalahari, a newly established local NGO.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
Participation in CEPF may have encouraged and certainly reinforced a strategic shift in
CI's own approach to conserving biodiversity worldwide. In 2004, CI formally
committed to re-grant substantial portions of its annual budget to partners in recognition
of the need to engage many other civil society groups in conserving biodiversity. In FY06,
28% of CI's budget was on-granted to partners. The independent evaluation notes that
CEPF "gave CI one of its first experiences of an explicit focus on making grants to civil
society with an emphasis on partnerships and alliances". The transformative effect of this
experience on CI itself may have contributed to a willingness to embrace this approach at
a more institutional scale.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: satisfactory
The risk to development outcome is moderate. The impact of biodiversity conservation
projects is often long-term and beyond the project time frame. As with other Bank
conservation investments, the sustainability of the CEPF's efforts is as yet unknown.
Nevertheless, the approach taken by CEPF, based on fostering a lively and diverse
network of organizations committed to conservation in each hotspot, and on enhancing


                                               11

their effectiveness by building their skills and contacts, is a sound one. The fact that
these local and national-level organizations have established partnerships and alliances
with international organizations, including CI itself, is particularly encouraging. These
international organizations bring both technical expertise and considerable fundraising
abilities to the service of conservation in the targeted hotspots. In a number of hotspots,
sustainability is further enhanced by the creation, with project support, of sustainable
financing mechanisms. For example, a conservation trust fund has been set up in the
Caucasus hotspot, and payments for ecosystem services have been instituted in the
Philippines and Southern Mesoamerica.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: satisfactory
The overall design of the project was strong and was specifically focused on overcoming
key barriers to entry for the Bank in supporting civil society, especially grassroots and
community groups, to carry out conservation projects. Best practice in the conservation
community has for many years highlighted the important role of civil society in
addressing conservation challenges, so this project had high strategic relevance.
Implementation arrangements were well thought out, and the creation of the Donor
Council in particular was an innovative feature that allowed the project to be managed
adaptively and thus enhanced flexibility. Policy and institutional aspects were intended to
be addressed at the sub-project level, and the design of the ecosystem profile
methodology ensured that policy issues in each hotspot would be identified so that
funding could be allocated for dealing with them.

CEPF was an unusual project at the design stage, and it did not fit easily into the normal
processing procedures of the Bank. The Bank at the time had already had experience
with granting GEF resources directly to NGOs as MSPs, but this was a new partnership
model with the Bank staying more directly involved in the strategic planning and
decision-making as part of the Donor Council, along with other donors, including CI.

The project was intended to be flexible and agile, and as such, many of the design details
were worked out during implementation. The project lacks a PAD, and the GEF Project
Brief is more focused on the structure and operation of the CEPF than on the specific
components and activities. Similarly, the Financing Agreement, the project's core legal
document, focuses almost exclusively on project procedures. Even the Memorandum of
Understanding between CI, GEF, and the Bank and the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President present project objectives and outcomes only in
general terms. Because the Donor Council was involved in key decisions, leaving design
details to implementation still allowed the donors to ensure the project met their
expectations. Nevertheless, the lack of design detail from the preparation stage and
particularly the fact that the log frame was never revised, nor used for reporting, made
tracking progress toward agreed project-level outcomes more difficult. Overall, M&E in
this project would have benefited from more attention during the design phase.



                                              12

The MOP identifies three risks, as outlined above, but does not rate the level of risk. It
appears that mitigation measures taken to address the risks were adequate in the case of
safeguards and participation issues. A design that involved stricter procedures to avoid
the impression of self-dealing might have alleviated continued concern about conflict of
interest. New measures to remove CI from decision-making process on grants and
Regional Implementation Team contracts to CI are in place for CEPF2.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: satisfactory
The Bank's role in supervision was unusual, because it was also actively involved in
making decisions about implementation as a member of the Working Group and the
Donor Council; it also shared responsibility for raising additional funds. Because of this
dual relationship, Conservation International did not necessarily understand nor accept at
first the Bank's role in technical supervision; it may also have been unclear to the earliest
Bank task team how project supervision should be approached. The Bank role evolved
over time and Bank task teams gradually assumed a stronger role in project supervision.

The quality of Bank supervision was satisfactory overall. Bank and CEPF management
worked diligently, sometimes within the context of the Donor Council and sometimes
directly, to identify issues that arose during project implementation and to resolve them.
Because many of the details of the project remained to be worked out during the earliest
stages of implementation, this flexibility of approach was an important ingredient in
project success.

A minor shortcoming of the project relates to fostering linkages between the project and
other Bank-financed regional projects. Originally this was highlighted as a key
opportunity for this innovative donor partnership. Individual Task Team Leaders
assigned to the project varied substantially in their attention to facilitating and
encouraging this sort of collaboration. Bank regional staff did review ecosystem profiles
but more active collaboration at the field level has been variable. There are exceptions. In
the Cape Floristic Region, the CEPF resources were especially useful and effective in
maintaining stakeholder interest and support and testing new partnerships and initiatives
that could then be rolled out on a larger scale once the main CAPE (Bank/GEF) project
came on line. In 2005, a series of regional workshops was held with Bank and CEPF
staff to improve collaboration with other Bank regional operations.

Overall candor and quality of performance reporting appears adequate. One minor issue
is the rating of the risk identified in the MOP that grants that CEPF made to CI would
represent a conflict of interest. In the first ISR this risk was rated as moderate, but in
subsequent PSRs it was rated low or negligible. Nevertheless, it is apparent from later
ISRs and the independent evaluation that the perception of conflict of interest continued
to be an issue for the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: satisfactory




                                                13

Bank performance overall was satisfactory. Only minor shortcomings were noted in
ensuring quality at entry and in project supervision. Because the project was unusual in
its design, it was probably inevitable that there would be shortcomings. The flexible
project design was an important asset for being able to address problems and issues as
they arose and represents a key design strength.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: satisfactory. Investments in hotspots were subject to national GEF focal point
approval of the ecosystem profile.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: satisfactory
PSRs and ISRs consistently rated CI progress in project implementation as satisfactory.
Both project planning (at the step of Ecosystem Profile preparation) and project
implementation (in the form of funding for sub-projects presented by a wide array of
grantees) were highly participatory. The high quality and commitment of CEPF staff at
both the central and the field levels have been noted by many observers, including the
independent evaluation. Bank staff commented that the central CEPF operation was quite
small but nevertheless performed admirably; staff also praised the efforts of CEPF
management to ensure a certain independence of the project from CI operations.
Relations with partners, particularly with grantees and in some hotspots with local or
national governments, have apparently been strong and positive.

CEPF was particularly committed to learning by doing and managed the project
adaptively as it brought on new hotspots. However, learning in the CEPF at the overall
level was focused on process more than on outcomes. The independent evaluation found
that "overall impacts of the [hotspot] portfolios and progress towards the conservation
outcomes had not been systematically compiled and assessed." The evaluation also notes
that this sort of assessment is difficult to do in conservation projects, and that it is unusual
to find adequate reporting on outcomes in this type of project. At the level of individual
sub-projects, however, a wealth of monitoring information exists and was well used to
manage hotspot-level portfolios.

CEPF was very good at documenting lessons learned and interesting success stories in
their quarterly reports and on their website. CEPF was also good at sharing experiences
through stakeholder workshops and annual meetings within, and across, hotspots, as for
example in the Cape Floristic region. The project was less focused on carrying out
higher-level, systematic analysis of lessons learned.

On safeguards compliance, the project consistently received ratings of satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned



                                               14

The CEPF was an unusual project in many ways. Because it took an experimental
approach, lessons learned during implementation were continuously being integrated into
ongoing operations. Some lessons are quite specific to this project, but other aspects of
the approach have wider applications. Among these lessons are the following:
· Transaction costs for large donors to reach multiple smaller organizations can be
    reduced by use of a multi-purpose intermediary that provides not only grant-making
    services but also technical and other support to grantees.
· Civil society varies greatly in its level of organization and sophistication from country
    to country. Projects that work with civil society must have sufficient knowledge of
    the level of development of the sector and be flexible to design appropriate
    interventions with local organizations, including capacity building.
· In a project that takes a deliberately experimental approach, phasing start-up of
    regions is a good way to take advantage of the fact that many lessons are learned
    early on in project implementation.
· Small grants can be useful to pilot new initiatives, prior to roll out through bigger
    Bank projects, e.g. the synergies between CEPF and the C.A.P.E project.
· A coherent planning process such as that used in the preparation of ecosystem
    profiles together with a strategic alignment of grants, can contribute greatly to the
    coordination and effectiveness of conservation interventions.
· A governance structure that includes donors in higher-level decision making can be
    very useful for producing buy-in and can give enable greater flexibility to make
    adjustments in the course of implementation.
· Concerns about conflict of interest and self-dealing are bound to arise in cases where
    the granting organization can also be a grantee, even where such grants are subject to
    independent review. Experience with the first phase of CEPF has led to much
    strengthened institutional arrangements to avoid potential conflict of interest in the
    second phase ­ see 2.5.
·    Monitoring outcomes at the portfolio or the global level is more complex than
    simply aggregating outcomes of individual sub-projects. Careful thought must be
    given to useful indicators or benchmarks for monitoring at these levels at the very
    beginning of project implementation, or else data will not be available on which to
    base well-supported conclusions about impacts.

Numerous lessons were learned at the hotspot level and in the individual sub-projects.
These can be found in the five-year hotspot assessment reports and the reports on
individual sub-projects available on the CEPF website, www.cepf.net.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
(b) Cofinanciers
(c) Other partners and stakeholders

The effectiveness of the first phase of CEPF can be assessed from the willingness of key
donors to continue with a second phase of investments under CEPF-2.




                                             15

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                         Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest
             Components                                                                         Percentage of
                                             (USD millions)         Estimate (USD
                                                                        millions)*                 Appraisal

GRANTS                                               0.00                    60.57
ECOSYSTEM PROFILE
PREPARATION                                          0.00                       4.47

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT,
MGT, GRANT MAKING                                    0.00                       7.57

M&E, INFORMATION AND
KNOWLEDGE MGT                                        0.00                       2.39


                Total Baseline Cost                                           75.00
Physical Contingencies                               0.00
Price Contingencies                                  0.00
                Total Project Costs                                           75.00
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00
      Total Financing Required                                                75.00

*Note, an additional $36.2 million was spent through March 31st and attributed to other partners for a total of $111.5
million. ($89.8 million in grants)


(b) Financing



                                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest

             Source of Funds                      Type of         Estimate           Estimate       Percentage of
                                               Cofinancing          (USD               (USD            Appraisal
                                                                  millions)          millions)
Borrower NGO: Conservation
International (CI)                                             25.00              25.00             33.33

Associated IBRD Fund -
Development Grant Facility (DGF)                               25.00              25.00             33.33.

Global Environment Facility (GEF)                              25.00              25.00             33.33




                                                       16

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

(1) Grants: To date, CEPF has completed active grant making in nine regions, while
grant-making remains active in six regions approved for investment since July 2002. In
total, CEPF has committed $89.8 million in direct grants to more than 600 civil society
groups in 33 countries in South and Central America (4 hotspots, $28.9m), Africa and
Madagascar (5 hotspots, $28.8m), the Caucasus ($7m), and East Asia (4 hotspots,
$25.1m). The civil society actors supported by the special re-granting programs brings
the number of groups supported by CEPF to more than 1,000.

(2) Ecosystem Profile preparation: Over the course of the first phase of the project, 19
ecosystem profiles were prepared. In cases where previous participatory planning
processes existed, such as Madagascar and the Cape Floristic Region, CEPF built on
those exercises. In other hotspots, the preparation of the ecosystem profile involved broad
consultation with conservation stakeholders, usually including national experts and
participants from government agencies, NGOs, local communities and donor
organizations. The output from each process is an ecosystem profile which includes
baseline information, a logical framework, a threats and opportunities analysis, an
analysis of CEPF's niche, and strategic directions for grant making. Common strategic
directions identified for multiple hotspots include mechanisms for corridor-level
conservation; species and protected areas management; empowering civil society for
biodiversity conservation; and awareness building, among others. The Donor Council
approves completed ecosystem profiles, which are then posted on CEPF's website.

(3) Business development, management and grant making: The CEPF Secretariat's
administration of the project was a strong point of the project, including the appointment
of grant directors with responsibility for specific regions. The phased start-ups in
different regions allowed ample opportunity to learn from initial experiences and
constantly improve project administration. An abundance of information about grant-
making is accessible on the CEPF website, from calls for proposals and detailed
information on which organizations and sub-projects were awarded funding to sub-
project overall reports and achievements. This gave the project great transparency and
credibility. The project leveraged $128 million overall, in addition to the $125 million
mobilized by the donors for CEPF itself.

(4) M&E, and information and knowledge management: CEPF did exceptional work in
communications. Numerous project documents are available on the website, down to the
proposals and final reports at the sub-project level. A monthly newsletter highlights new
and interesting developments in the program, as well as providing links to new
documents. Grant information has been managed through software specially designed for
CEPF. While the independent evaluation found it a bit complex for some users, in general
it seems to have worked well, and it has been improved through project implementation.
M&E at the project level appears to have been adequate. Nevertheless M&E could have
been further strengthened by more systematic gathering and analysis of information at the
portfolio and project levels, to derive lessons learned and good practice for wider



                                             17

dissemination and replication. The recent assessments at conclusion of hotspot
investments provide some useful material for future analysis.




                                           18

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS PROJECT.




                                        19

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                      Title               Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                  Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Kathleen S. Mackinnon     Lead Biodiversity Specialist    ENV       TTL

Michael Carroll             Lead Natural Resources
                            Management Specialist        LCSER      TTL

Gonzalo Castro            Senior Biodiversity Specialist  ENV       TTL
Randall B. Purcell          Sr Partnership Specialist     DGF   Team member
Jeanette Ramirez               Operations Officer        LCSER  Team member
                                                                  Financial
Modupe A. Adebowale         Senior Finance Officer       LOAG2   Management
                                                                  Specialist
                                                                  Financial
Michael Fowler                   Finance Officer         LOAG2   Management
                                                                  Specialist
Steve J. Gaginis                 Finance Officer         LOAG2  Finance Officer
Jao Francisco Ferreira           Finance Officer         LOAG2  Finance Officer

Jaime A. Roman                     Consultant            LCOPR   Procurement
                                                                  Specialist
Simon Ochieng Lang'o            Finance Analyst          LOAG2 Finance Analyst
Jane Moraa Mwebi                Finance Analyst          LOAG2 Finance Analyst
Simon Nicholas Milward    Junior Professional Associate  LCSEN  Team member
Bryony Morgan             Junior Professional Associate  EASRE  Team member
Marieke van der Zon       Junior Professional Associate   ENV   Team member
Greicy C. Amjadi           Senior Program Assistant      LCSER  Team member
Grace Aguilar                  Program Assistant          ENV   Team member
Wamuka Geoffrey Mwamuka        Finance Assistant         LOAG2 Finance Assistant




                                       20

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                            Total:                              679,548.30
Supervision/ICR
 FY01                                        3.10                38,887.76
 FY02                                        9.39                58,278.30
 FY03                                      23.35                104,094.94
 FY04                                      25.02                161,500.41
 FY05                                      22.82                185,424.67
 FY06                                      16.73                 74,763.41
 FY07                                      11.06                 56,598.81
                            Total:




                                        21

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                    22

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

One or more consultation workshops were organized in each of the nine regions where
the five-year CEPF grant-making period has come to an end: the Vilcabamba-Ambóro
corridor in the Tropical Andes, the Chocó-Manabi corridor in Tumbes-Chocó-Magdalena,
the Sumatra Forest Ecosystem in Sundaland, Southern Mesoamerica, the Cape Floristic
Region, Madagascar, the Philippines, the Atlantic Forest, and the Upper Guinean Forest
Ecosystem in West Africa.

The workshops aimed to assess the degree to which CEPF met its objectives as defined in
the ecosystem profile for the region, and offered an opportunity for the grantees, donors,
government agencies and other partners to discuss their achievements. In each region the
results of the workshops were used as input for the "Assessing Five years of CEPF
Investment in the hotspot" report. Preparatory consultation meetings or workshops with
grantees and other stakeholders were organized during the preparation of the draft report.
A final consultation workshop offered the opportunity for stakeholders to review and
comment upon the accomplishments described in the draft report, with a particular
emphasis on the program's impact, lessons learned, and sustainability.

A summary of results of the workshop and outcomes for the hotspot, as described in the
five-year assessment reports, can be found in Annex 10 of this report. Full reports of all
the workshops can be found on the CEPF website: www.cepf.net.




                                            23

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

This report presents an overview of the implementation and results of the Critical
Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF) through March 2007. The information presented is
based on monitoring and evaluation at three levels: program-wide, ecosystem portfolio,
and individual projects supported by the program. Specific information is also
highlighted from the results of independent evaluations conducted in 2003 and 2005, as
well as from participatory assessments of nine ecosystem portfolios concluded to date.

1) Assessment of objective, design, implementation, and operational experience

Conservation International (CI), the Global Environment Facility, and the World Bank
launched CEPF in 2000 as a global response program to address the rapid loss of
biological diversity in some of the world's most critical ecosystems. CEPF represented a
new and urgent approach to biodiversity conservation as the first global fund tailored to
focus on biological, rather than geopolitical, boundaries and on channeling funds to civil
society. The objective of CEPF, as stated in the Financing Agreement between the
partners, is to provide strategic assistance to nongovernmental and private sector
organizations for the protection of vital ecosystems.

By design, CEPF offered its partners an opportunity to align and leverage significant
resources to promote the conservation of Earth's biodiversity hotspots through support to
a sector often outside the reach of traditional funding mechanisms. The growth of civil
society, which CEPF defines broadly to also include community groups and the private
sector, has been one of the most significant trends in international development in recent
years. Civil society participation in government development projects and programs can
enhance their operational performance by contributing local knowledge, providing
technical expertise, and leveraging social capital. Further, civil society organizations can
bring innovative ideas and solutions, as well as participatory approaches, to solving local
challenges. The importance of conserving the hotspots was heightened by the growing
recognition of the multiple benefits provided by healthy, diverse ecosystems in areas such
as agriculture, forestry, and water supply -- all issues critical to the partners' contribution
to human welfare. The hotspots are home to millions of people who are highly dependent
on healthy ecosystems for their livelihoods and well-being. As many hotspots cross
national borders, the approach transcends political boundaries and fosters coordination
across large landscapes for local and global benefits.

The unique CEPF focus on the hotspots and civil society attracted the John D. and
Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation to join the partnership in 2001 and the Government
of Japan in 2002, bringing the Fund's total capital to $125 million. The two additional
partners each committed $25 million. CEPF grant recipients have also reported an
additional $128 million in co-financing and leveraged funds to date, bringing the total
leveraged by the project to more than $175 million, or $7 for every GEF dollar spent.




                                              24

CEPF complemented and expanded the overall approaches of the World Bank and the
GEF to biodiversity conservation by providing a streamlined funding mechanism within
the context of a broad range of private sector partners. Civil society groups were eligible
to apply for CEPF grants for projects within selected hotspots in World Bank client
countries that also had ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity. As originally
envisioned, CEPF developed a region-specific ecosystem profile prior to awarding grants
in a hotspot, with an investment strategy and selected strategic directions to guide both
civil society in applying for grants and CEPF decision-making. Specific short- and long-
term targets were also identified in a logical framework for each ecosystem. The profiling
process evolved significantly during implementation -- from the first three profiles,
which were developed by individual consultants as part of the preparation phase prior to
the program's formal inception, to the latter profiles developed directly by locally based
civil society groups who engaged diverse stakeholders in identifying the niche and
priorities for CEPF investment. Engaging a rich mix of civil society, governmental
partners, and other stakeholders at this early stage has proven to be a critical foundation
for creating a shared strategy among stakeholders and maximizing impact.

Each profile was reviewed and approved by the CEPF Donor Council, a body of high-
level donor partner representatives that governs the global program. Relevant GEF Focal
Points also endorsed the profiles prior to implementation at the national level, further
ensuring a complementary approach to national Biodiversity Action Plans and country
programmatic frameworks. Every grant awarded helped to implement a profile, further
enabling CEPF to act as a catalyst in aligning and coordinating conservation efforts.
Emphasis on corridor level or landscape-scale action was a hallmark of the CEPF
approach, moving beyond a strictly species- or site-based focus in recognition of the need
to maintain ecological and evolutionary processes.


A key approach during implementation has been the establishment of coordination units
led by civil society groups based in the hotspots. These teams, created in 13 of the 15
CEPF funding regions established to date, have played a key role in all aspects of CEPF
implementation, and were characterized as one of the greatest strengths of the program by
the independent evaluators. In a number of hotspots, CEPF has also established special
small grant programs directly managed by local civil society groups to implement
selected components of the ecosystem profiles. Together, the coordination units and these
special programs have acted as the local ecosystem facilities envisioned in the original
CEPF design and significantly expanded both the program's reach and impact.


2) Assessment of the outcome against the agreed objectives


As indicated in Table 1, CEPF has established active grant programs in 15 regions within
14 of the hotspots selected by the Donor Council, with spending plans authorized for
$100.4 million in investments as of March 31, 2007. The Council progressively approved
critical ecosystems for the profiling process and subsequent investment, based on
capacity and availability of funds--creating a staggered implementation of investment
regions that enabled CEPF also to practice extensive adaptive management and replicate


                                             25

best practices across hotspots throughout implementation. The profiling process was also
approved for three additional hotspots, however the Council decided these completed
profiles should move forward only after securing a sixth CEPF donor partner. These
profiles for the Indo-Burma, Polynesia-Micronesia, and Western Ghats and Sri Lanka
hotspots are slated to become the first for future investment under CEPF-2.


Based on the 5-year investment period for each region, CEPF has completed active
investments in nine regions while grant-making remains active in six regions approved
for investment since July 2002. In total, CEPF has committed $89.8 million in grants to
more than 600 civil society groups in 33 countries in South and Central America (4
hotspots, $28.9m), Africa and Madagascar (5 hotspots, $28.8m), the Caucasus ($7m), and
East Asia (4 hotspots, $25.1m). The civil society actors supported by the special re-
granting programs brings the number of groups supported by CEPF to more than 1,000.

Table 1. Ecosystem Grants, Inception through March 31, 2007

 Start      Hotspot/Region              Spending         Committed    % of          Years
 Date                                   Authority        Grants       Authority Active
 Dec. 00    Guinean Forests of West          6,200,000     6,202,565       100%           5
            Africa
 Dec. 00    Madagascar                       4,250,000     4,249,840       100%          5
 Dec. 00    Tropical Andes                   6,150,000     6,133,510       100%           5
 Dec. 01    Atlantic Forest                  8,000,000     8,000,000       100%          5
 Dec. 01    Cape Floristic Region            6,000,000     6,133,169       102%           5
 Dec. 01    The Philippines                  7,000,000     7,000,000       100%           5
 Dec. 01    Southern Mesoamerica             5,500,000     5,499,848       100%           5
 Dec. 01    Sundaland                       10,000,000     9,990,069       100%          5
 Dec. 01    Tumbes-Chocó                     5,000,000     4,999,975       100%           5
            Magdalena
 Jul. 02    Mountains of Southwest           6,500,000     6,451,223        99%        4.75
            China
 Feb. 03    Succulent Karoo                  8,000,000     5,788,689        72%           4
 Jul. 03    Caucasus                         8,500,000     6,976,538        82%        3.75
 Jul. 03    Eastern Arc Mountains            7,000,000     6,424,798        92%        3.75
            and Coastal Forests of
            Tanzania and Kenya

 Jan. 04    Northern Mesoamerica             7,300,000     4,290,769        59%           3
 Feb. 05    Eastern Himalayas                5,000,000     1,658,423        33%           2
            Total Ecosystem               100,400,000     89,799,414        89%
            Grants




                                             26

* Including management and ecosystem profile development expenses, CEPF has committed
$111.5 million through March 31, 2007.

CEPF support has enabled civil society to contribute to a major expansion and
improvement in biodiversity conservation and sustainable use in the targeted hotspots.
The range of partners and grantees has extended from individuals, farmers, and
community organizations, through to national NGOs, research institutions, and private
sector organizations, up to international environmental NGOs with global reach.
Prominent and strategically vital partnerships have also been developed with local and
national governments, including the agencies responsible for conservation as well as
closely-related sectors such as forestry and agriculture.

CEPF has reached a wide array of civil society actors and institutions in all of the
targeted hotspots despite a variety of social, economic, and political constraints. The
CEPF approach has been flexible enough to make progress in the midst of some
potentially discouraging civil society scenarios. For example, NGO networks and civil
society organizations have only recently started to emerge in the Caucasus and Mountains
of Southwest China hotspots, while local organizations that exist in other hotspots have
often lacked capacity, training, and opportunities. In some hotspots, such as the Guinean
Forests of West Africa, civil unrest has been, and continues to be, one of the most
important factors affecting the ability of stakeholders to succeed in conservation efforts.

The 2005 independent evaluation of the global CEPF program found "overall
performance from a global perspective has been excellent." The evaluators, who were
appointed by the CEPF Donor Council and visited 10 of the 15 CEPF investment regions,
concluded in their final report issued in January 2006: "This innovative model fills a
unique niche in international biodiversity conservation and is being implemented by a
very professional global team plus partners who have made excellent early progress
toward their long-term goals. We have no hesitation in recommending that the donor
partners continue funding the program and seeking further expansion opportunities."

The following results are presented in thematic areas and include highlights from the
evaluations as well as CEPF assessments conducted together with stakeholders in the
nine regions that have reached the end of their 5-year investment period. Individual
reports for each of these portfolio-level assessments are available separately on the CEPF
website1.



1Atlantic Forest - www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/static/pdfs/Final_AtlanticForest_assessment.March07.pdf
Cape Floristic Region: www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/static/pdfs/Final_CapeFloristic_assessment_April07.pdf
Guinean Forests of West Africa -
www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/static/pdfs/Final_GuineanForests_assessment_Oct06.pdf
Madagascar - www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/static/pdfs/Final_Madagascar_assessment.Dec06.pdf
Philippines - www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/static/pdfs/Final_Philippines_assessment_March07.pdf
Southern Mesoamerica - www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/static/pdfs/Final_SMesoamerica_assessment_April07.pdf
Sundaland - www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/static/pdfs/Final_Sumatra_assessment_March07.pdf
Tumbes-Chocó Magdalena -
www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/static/pdfs/Final_ChocoManabi_assessment.March07.pdf


                                                    27

Protected area networks: Protected areas remain the critical foundation of biodiversity
conservation worldwide, and as such, have been a major focal area for CEPF. Project
portfolios have supported the creation or expansion, consolidation, and improved
planning and management of protected area networks based on the identification of key
biodiversity areas and biodiversity conservation corridors. Activities have included
expanding or strengthening protected area networks; providing training and other
capacity-building services to protected area managers and staff; supporting NGOs
working in collaboration with government conservation agencies and stakeholders in
activities such as park planning and development of management plans; and, crucially,
integrating these various approaches into a cohesive program. As of March 2007, CEPF-
supported civil society groups have contributed to the creation or expansion of 9.4
million hectares of globally significant biodiversity in 15 countries within 11 hotspots.

Community stewardship: The CEPF regional portfolios reflect a growing appreciation
that effective conservation requires working with the people in and around protected
areas and critical ecosystems who rely on and sometimes manage critical biodiversity
resources. All of the portfolios have supported community stewardship of biodiversity
through improved use and management of natural resources, the reduction or elimination
of practices harmful to biodiversity, and the development and adoption of a variety of
alternative livelihood opportunities. The 2005 evaluation found that a significant number
of CEPF grants have provided the basis for improving the incomes and economic well-
being of poor communities. In Southern Mesoamerica, for example, civil society groups
leading 22 projects worked closely with Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean peoples to
support land-use practices and livelihood projects that maintained both forest cover and
cultural identities. Other examples include CEPF support enabling community
associations in Madagascar to win approval from the government to directly manage
wetland sites that benefit their local villages, and 130 small-scale farmers in the Tropical
Andes Hotspot to secure formal Brazil nut concessions from the Peruvian government
and thereby safeguard 225,000 hectares of primary tropical forest as well as their own
livelihoods in the long term.

Building Conservation into Development Planning: Reconciling ecosystem conservation
with sustainable development on different scales across complex jurisdictional
boundaries, often in situations of weak governance, is perhaps the major challenge facing
the conservation and development community. Mobilizing civil society to help strengthen
the enabling environment for conservation has been a major focus. A key approach has
been to strengthen protection of critical biological corridors that link key biodiversity
areas within a multiple-use landscape through improved planning and other activities that
mainstream conservation into production landscapes, including collaboration with the




Tropical Andes -
www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/static/pdfs/Final_TropicalAndes_assessment_Oct06.pdf



                                              28

private sector and developing supportive policy and legislative frameworks. Grants have
supported the development and implementation of GIS systems as sources of biodiversity
information for decision makers and planners in different sectors attempting to harmonize
conservation with economic development. Innovative payment for environmental
services programs have promoted biological connectivity and restoration in buffer zones
of protected areas and corridors while providing attractive economic incentives for small
farmers and landowners to maintain land uses consistent with conservation. Grants in
Southern Mesoamerica, for example, tapped into Costa Rica's payment for environmental
services schemes. Projects implemented by Centro Científico Tropical, Asociación de
Organizaciones del Corredor Biológico Talamanca Caribe, and Fundación Neotropica
played instrumental roles in helping 177 farmers to access funds from Costa Rica's
National Forestry Financing Fund (FONAFIO), which compensates farmers who set
aside land for conservation in priority sites. Other grants supported restoration of former
forested areas in ways that generate attractive returns for landowners and promoted
sustainable practices through environmental certification for mining and forestry.

CEPF support has also played an influential role in shaping national and municipal
policies in favor of biodiversity conservation. In the Philippines Hotspot, national and
regional governmental bodies adopted biodiversity conservation priorities into their
planning processes. Additionally, CEPF-identified Key Biodiversity Areas in the
Philippines (which cover 20 percent of the total land area) were declared by presidential
order to be "critical habitats" and the Department of Environment and Natural Resources
was directed to promulgate guidelines for their management and protection. Watershed
management plans were also adopted in multiple municipal areas (covering
approximately 14,000 hectares) across the hotspot. Within the Chocó-Manabí Corridor of
the Tumbes-Chocó Magdalena Hotspot, national government agencies in Colombia
incorporated the corridor concept into their planning policies as well as into the 2005-
2007 environmental action plans of regional environmental authorities. In Ecuador, the
corridor concept was integrated into development plans for Manabí Province; land-use
planning for San Lorenzo, Rio Verde, and Eloy Alfaro was undertaken for the first time.

At least five Ecosystem Profiles have contained strategic directions that specifically
target the private sector (Atlantic Forest, Cape Floristic Region, Madagascar, Succulent
Karoo, and Sundaland), with several of these regions achieving significant conservation
contributions from national and international companies in the mining, agribusiness, wine
production, logging, and ecotourism sectors. A key example is support to The South
African Wine & Brandy Company for the Biodiversity and Wine Initiative (BWI), an
innovative effort aimed at mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into the South
African wine industry by promoting biodiversity best practices and a stewardship
approach. Thus far, BWI has brought more than 78 champions into its network and put
more than 48,000 hectares of land into conservation management. Through the BWI,
biodiversity guidelines also have been accepted as part of the Integrated Production of
Wine, an industry-wide, technical system of sustainable wine production. Other policies
and guidelines for biodiversity and sustainable development have also been strengthened
in the Cape Floristic Region Hotpot due to CEPF investment, including the Western Cape
Provincial Spatial Development Framework, policies and procedures for stewardship,



                                              29

codes of practice, and a policy framework for ensuring that biodiversity priorities are
included in Integrated Development Plans for municipalities.

3) Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be helpful in the future

CI has led the preparation and implementation of the CEPF global program. Like the
other donor partners, CI contributed $25 million to the program. CI also administers
CEPF. Its role and responsibilities are explicitly laid out in the Financing Agreement
between the partners and further detailed in the CEPF Operational Manual. CI has a
fiduciary responsibility to ensure that projects and other activities are financed and
carried out in accordance with the guidance of the CEPF Donor Council and the
Operational Manual. Compliance with the World Bank's Safeguard Policies and GEF's
Operational Policies are also emphasized. The CEPF Financing Agreement specifies CI's
responsibility for preparing and securing the approval of ecosystem profiles and for
identifying, preparing, appraising, selecting, and supervising projects and activities
carried out under each of the approved profiles. CI is responsible for strategic and
financial management, oversight, and reporting for the global program. It also leads
fundraising, donor coordination, and global information management and outreach.

Both independent evaluations found that strong and responsive CEPF leadership and
management has very ably guided the program through its start-up phase and expansion
while also helping the program to evolve in response to changing needs. Strong, strategic
decision-making informed by earlier experiences has been particularly evident as well.

The evaluation team also found that the CEPF Management Team administered the Fund
prudently, staffing conservatively and well, learning from experience and making
adjustments along the way to vital procedures like granting applications and grant
tracking, and developing a solid basis for future monitoring and evaluation of the
program. Aware of the power of public perceptions, the Team has also made a concerted
effort to maintain the transparency and autonomy of CEPF.

The Financing Agreement also sets out the specific procedures to be followed in cases
where CI is a recipient of CEPF grant funding. CI has received 26% of the $104 million
in grant funds available to date, while it was eligible to apply for up to 50% of the funds.
In regard to grants to CI, the evaluation team concluded that CI has generally done an
excellent job with the funds it has received from CEPF. It reported that the coordination
and project implementation services from CI regional programs and Centers for
Biodiversity Conservation, the scientific and technical support from the Center for
Applied Biodiversity Science, as well as the administrative, management, and
information technology services from CI's headquarters have all been of high quality and
have provided essential support to CEPF civil society grant-making.

Lessons learned include the following:




                                             30

   · Identification of conservation targets or outcomes and engaging diverse
       stakeholders in developing the CEPF niche and strategy for investment in each
       region has sharpened the CEPF focus, inspired other donors and national
       governments to use the profiles as planning tools, and helped create a shared
       strategy from the outset among potential implementers and partners in the field.

   · Developing mutually supportive grants and vertically integrated portfolios with
       large anchor projects supported by smaller, strategic projects has significantly
       contributed to the achievement of objectives specified in the profiles and ensured
       that all projects supported together exceed in impact the sum of their parts.
       Similarly, designing site level portfolios or clusters with several projects of
       varying sizes can be more effective than one large project ­ CEPF often seeks to
       develop a cluster of projects around a site of different sizes implemented by
       organizations with diverse capacities. Rather than a donor making a large grant to
       a single organization to implement a wide range of interventions meant to yield
       conservation and development benefits at the site level, CEPF has shown the
       value of being able to disburse funding to a number of specialized civil society
       groups all working together toward a common set of objectives at multiple scales.

   · The Regional Implementation Teams (RITs) piloted as coordination units during
       the first phase of the program have become one of the greatest strengths,
       providing hands-on capacity building and local knowledge directly in the field.
       The evaluators concluded that their vital function goes well beyond grant program
       administration. CEPF will standardize the role of future RITs to further devolve
       responsibility for grant-making decisions, capacity building of local partners, and
       monitoring of individual projects to the regional level.

4) Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co-financiers, or of other
partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including the
effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

World Bank finance, procurement, safeguard, and legal staff were actively involved in
developing CEPF management systems, grant-making procedures and the Operational
Manual during preparation of the project. The Bank has also taken a significant
leadership and supervisory role in the program throughout implementation, including:
   · the President's chairmanship of the CEPF Donor Council, which has met on
       average twice yearly
   · acting as the implementing agency for two CEPF donor partners (the GEF and
       Government of Japan) as well as for its own $25 million contribution
   · regular supervision meetings, missions, and other consultations by the CEPF Task
       Team leader;
   · providing technical guidance through participation in the CEPF Working Group,
       which has met up to four times yearly
   · training the CEPF management team and locally based teams in implementing the
       Bank's social and safeguard policies; and
   · participating in high-level strategic fundraising and events.


                                            31

While the Bank has played a lead role, each of the CEPF donor partners, including the
GEF, has also played an important role through participation in the CEPF Donor Council
and Working Group as well as in other activities. The 2005 independent evaluation found
that the management and oversight of the Fund has demonstrated that the partners can
work well together to keep the Fund well focused and operationally effective. The Donor
Council, supported by the Working Group, has provided strategic vision to the Fund,
timely and useful review and approval of CEPF ecosystem profiles and investment plans,
and productive guidance and support for fundraising. It has demonstrated that a well-
designed alliance between NGOs, multilateral development banks and foundations can
work effectively with civil society in the field of conservation.

Lessons learned include the need to strengthen operational collaboration with the CEPF
donor partners as a priority agreed between the partners, rather than just relying on
coordination between the CEPF Secretariat and the focal points of the donor partner
institutions. This is particularly true, for example, in the case of the World Bank as a
multilateral institution with an extensive global structure and representatives within many
of the hotspots. Strengthening this type of collaboration will be a priority in the future to
maximize the role and comparative advantage of each partner, and thereby increase the
benefits of the partnership to each partner and to the global environment.

5) Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project.
An expansion is planned to expand and replicate successful civil society implementation
models more broadly within at least 14 of the eligible 30 hotspots, including at least nine
new ones. CEPF would build on lessons learned to date and recommendations from the
independent evaluation to further strengthen the program in existing hotspots and to
expand activities to marine ecosystems and new hotspots. By focusing on a small number
of critical ecosystems, and expanding into new hotspots, the project would maximize
overall impact. Expected global benefits will arise from the increased participation and
capacity of national and local civil society groups to manage and deliver conservation
initiatives in a strategic and effective manner and to integrate biodiversity conservation
into development and landscape planning in regions of recognized global importance.
These interventions would lead to generation, adoption, adaptation, and application of
lessons for improved conservation outcomes, relevant both to CEPF and the broader
Bank and GEF biodiversity portfolios.

These objectives would be achieved by providing strategic assistance to NGOs,
community groups, including indigenous peoples, the private sector, and other civil
society partners, to support:
    · strengthened protection and management of globally significant biodiversity
        within selected hotspots and critical ecosystems;
    · increased local and national capacity to integrate biodiversity conservation into
        development and landscape planning; and
    · effective monitoring and knowledge sharing to demonstrate biodiversity impact
        and enable adaptive management and replication.




                                               32

The CEPF program provides a field-tested mechanism for achieving these objectives,
demonstrated by successful experience since its inception in 2000. The project would
continue to provide support to Bank client countries to meet their obligations under the
CBD and to implement National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans. Prior to
implementation, each ecosystem profile would continue to be endorsed by the relevant
national GEF focal points to ensure consistency with country biodiversity priorities, as
outlined in national Biodiversity Action Plans and country programmatic frameworks.
The implementation arrangements would build on the first phase to continue expeditious,
efficient support to diverse civil society groups, and to establish a clear and effective
chain of accountability for results. The partnership would retain the overall structure of a
Donor Council, Secretariat and Working Group. CI would continue to administer and
execute the project, through the CEPF Secretariat, on behalf of the CEPF donors. Explicit
provisions are also being put in place to enable locally based regional implementation
teams to take a greater role in implementation and decision-making, and to avoid
potential conflict of interest. Strengthening operational collaboration with the CEPF
donor partners would be an explicit priority during implementation as well.

This project would be supported through a GEF Grant Agreement for $20 million over
five years linked to at least $80 million in co-funding from CI and other donors. The GEF
Council approved inclusion of the project in the GEF-3 work plan in September 2006.

While this report presents an overview of the implementation and results to date,
conserving the hotspots is not a short-term endeavor but an effort that must be sustained
over the long term. The CEPF niche and overall mission emphasizing support for civil
society is a more subtle and sustaining type of intervention than practiced by many other
conservation and development programs. The long-term indirect impacts of creating
effective, allied civil societies acting in favor of biodiversity conservation is expected to
be considerably more important than the immediate, direct impacts and to play a pivotal
role in ensuring sustainability of these efforts for the future. We look forward to
continuing this extremely important approach together with our partners in the future.

Comments on Draft World Bank ICR

We concur with the overall ratings of satisfactory in the draft ICR report for both our own
performance and that of the World Bank. We are particularly pleased to see that the draft
references a number of ways in which key elements of implementation have evolved over
time -- an evolution that was expected to occur as a result of learning from experience
and our unique multi-donor partnership and governance structure.

The multi-donor partnership has also brought unique challenges. For example, the
evolution in the Bank's supervisory role has proven to be helpful over time but each
donor has distinct needs and all need to work together to balance their individual
priorities with those of the broader partnership. The great advantage of our partnership is
the richly varied experiences of its diverse members and the opportunities they provide
for CEPF to make strategic investment choices that reinforce and often expand their own
conservation and sustainable development programs, as well as those of their partners.



                                               33

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    34

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

· Launching the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund program design and sample
  ecosystem profiles and project pipelines, October 2000
· Memorandum and recommendation of the President of the International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors on a proposed grant in
  the amount of US$25 million equivalent to the Conservation International for Critical
  Ecosystem Partnership Fund, November 13 2000
· Document requesting ED approval, November 10 2000
· CEPF Financing Agreement, December 14 2000
· Program Brief: The Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF), October 30 2000
· GEF Secretariat Formal Confirmation to suspend STAP, November 16 2001
· Changes to CEPF Operational Practices, December 11 2001
· Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund Mid-Term Review prepared for the Critical
  Ecosystem Partnership Fund as required by the World Bank by Walter W. Arensberg
  Consultant, June 18 2003
· Minutes of meetings of the Donor Council: December 14 2000 (first meeting);
  December 11 2001 (second meeting); Council, December 12 2001 (third meeting);
  February 12 2003 (fourth meeting); July 31 2003 (fifth meeting); March 31 2004
  (sixth meeting); November 1 2004 (seventh meeting); March 26 2005 (eighth
  meeting)
· ISRs; November 28 2001; December 21 2001; June 18 2002; October 16 2003;
  January 7 2005; November 12 2005; August 18 2006; March 19 2007
· Aide memoires: November 2001; July 2002; November 2004; November 2005; May
  2006; December 2006
· CEPF Quarterly Reports
· CEPF 2 Project Executive Summary, GEF Council submission, January 19 2006
· Draft PAD CEPF2
· Mountains to Coral Reefs, The World Bank and Biodiversity, 1988-2005, February
  2006
· Fyjnbos; Fyjnmense: People Making Biodiversity Work. SANBI Biodiversity Series
  2006

Available on the CEPF website (www.cepf.net):

· CEPF Annual Reports
· Report of the Independent Evaluation of the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund,
  January 25 2006
· Assessing Five Years of CEPF Investment in the Atlantic Forest Biodiversity Hotspot,
  Brazil, March 2007
· Assessing Five Years of CEPF Investment in the Tumbes-Chocó-Magdalena Hotspot,
  Chocó-Manabi Conservation Corridor, Colombia and Equador, March 2007
· Assessing Five Years of CEPF Investment in the Sumatra Forests Ecosystem of the
  Sundaland Biodiversity Hotspot, March 2007




                                         35

· Assessing Five Years of CEPF Investment in the Mesoamerica Biodiversity Hotspot,
  Southern Mesoamerica, April 2007
· Assessing Five Years of CEPF Investment in the Cape Floristic Region, April 2007
· Assessing Five Years of CEPF Investment in the Madagascar and Indian Ocean
  Islands Biodiversity Hotspot, Madagascar, December 2006
· Assessing Five Years of CEPF Investment in The Philippines Biodiversity Hotspot,
  March 2007
· Assessing Five Years of CEPF Investment in the Tropical Andes Biodiversity
  Hotspot, Vilcabamba-Amboró Corridor, October 2006
· Assessing Five Years of CEPF Investment Guinean Forests of West Africa
  Biodiversity Hotspot, Upper Guinean Ecosystem, October 2006
· The Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund and Poverty Reduction: An overview,
  November 2004 (http://www.cepf.net/xp/cepf/resources/publications/)
· The final reports of most of the projects under CEPF in the hotspots




                                           36

 Annex 10. Selected Results of the Project


 a) Protected Areas Created or Expanded with CEPF Support
 As of March 2007

 Number of hectares: 9,393,687
 Number of hotspots: 11
 Number of countries: 15

 Global Overview Table

                     Hotspot/Region                         Country      Hectares
                                                                         Protected
Atlantic Forest                                       Brazil                       100,370
Cape Floristic Region                                 South Africa                 204,612
Guinean Forest of West Africa (Upper Guinean Forest)  Ghana                        100,000
                                                      Liberia                       86,268
Madagascar & Indian Ocean Islands (Madagascar)        Madagascar                 1,547,880
Mesoamerica                                           Costa Rica                    54,000
                                                      Guatemala                      6,000
                                                      Panama                        24,089
Mountains of Southwest China                          China                         40,000

Philippines                                           Philippines                  329,893

Succulent Karoo                                       Namibia                    2,600,000
                                                      South Africa                  97,979
Sundaland (Sumatra)                                   Indonesia                    146,576
Tropical Andes (Vilcabamba-Amboró Corridor)           Peru                       3,994,736


Tumbes-Chocó Magdalena (Chocó-Manabí Corridor)        Colombia                      30,460
                                                      Ecuador                       30,824

Total hotspots: 11                                    Countries: 15    Hectares: 9,393,687




                                                  37

Detailed Summary Table

  Hotspot/Region        Country                    Protected Area                 Hectares
                                                                                 Protected
   Atlantic Forest       Brazil     8 Private Natural Heritage Reserves created           370
                                    by landowners and incorporated into
                                    National Protected Areas system
                         Brazil     Canavieiras Extractive Reserve                    100,000
Cape Floristic Region  South Africa Baviaanskloof Mega-reserve (expanded from          23,827
                                    213,937 to 237,764 hectares)
                       South Africa Tokai Forest (expanded from 1 to 3.5                  2.5
                                    hectares)
                       South Africa St. Francis Conservancy                             5,600
                       South Africa Blaauwberg Conservation Area                        1,000
                       South Africa Die Oog                                               1.3
                       South Africa Baviaans Conservancy                               52,821
                       South Africa Cape winelands set aside for conservation          45,000
                       South Africa Garden Route protected areas expanded from         76,361
                                    initial 146,328 ha to 222,689 ha
Guinean Forest of West   Ghana      Upgraded to Globally Significant                  100,000
Africa (Upper Guinean               Biodiversity Areas; the Ghanaian Forestry
        Forest)                     Division will manage these areas for strict
                                    protection
                         Liberia    Nimba Nature Reserve declared out of the           13,568
                                    former Nimba East National Forest
                         Liberia    Sapo National Park (expanded from 107,300          72,700
                                    to 180,000 hectares)
Madagascar & Indian     Madagascar  Makira Forest                                     350,000
    Ocean Islands       Madagascar  Ankenihey-Zahamena Corridor                       475,000
    (Madagascar)
                        Madagascar  Anjozorobe                                         50,000
                        Madagascar  Loky-Manambato Forest Station                      72,000
                        Madagascar  Dairana Multiple Use Forest Station                70,837
                        Madagascar  Sahamalaza as part of the ANGAP Protected      129,042.74
                                    Area network
                        Madagascar  Mahavavy-Kinkony Wetlands Complex                 276,000
                        Madagascar  Menabe Central Forest                             125,000
    Mesoamerica         Costa Rica  Maquenque National Wildlife Reserve                54,000
                         Panama     Damani Wetland                                     24,089
                        Guatemala   Todos Santos de Cuchumatanes                        6,000
Mountains of Southwest   China      Two new protected areas established in             40,000
        China                       Sichuan
     Philippines        Philippines Peñablanca Protected Landscape and                113,972
                                    Seascape (expanded from 4,136 hectares to
                                    118,108 hectares)
                        Philippines Quirino Protected Landscape                       206,875




                                             38

    Hotspot/Region       Country                     Protected Area                 Hectares
                                                                                    Protected
                         Philippines Wildlife Sanctuary in San Mariano, Isabela                32
                         Philippines Municipality of Puerto Princesa, Palawan                  60
                         Philippines Mati Philippine Eagle Sanctuary                        7,000
                         Philippines Municipal Reserve in the Municipality of              1,954
                                     Rizal, Palawan
    Succulent Karoo      Namibia     Sperrgebiet National Park                          2,600,000
                        South Africa Namaqua National Park                                 30,000
                        South Africa Area in the Bushhmanland Conservation                24,000
                                     Initiative set aside and managed by Anglo as
                                     protected area
                        South Africa Knersvlakte                                           43,979
  Sundaland (Sumatra)    Indonesia   Batang Gadis National Park                          108,000


                         Indonesia   Tesso Nilo National Park                              38,576
    Tropical Andes          Peru     Manu National Park (expanded from                   183,000
  (Vilcabamba-Amboró                 1,517,700 ha to 1.7 million ha)
        Corridor)           Peru     Alto Purus Restricted Zone                         2,700,000
                            Peru     Amarakaeri Communal Reserve                          402,336
                            Peru     Ashaninka and Matsiguenga Communal                  709,400
                                     Reserves and the Otishi National Park
                                     created, providing new levels of protection to
                                     the former Apurimac Restricted Zone
Tumbes-Chocó Magdalena   Colombia    El Pangan Bird Reserve                                 7,000
(Chocó-Manabí Corridor)  Colombia    Civil society reserves in Bahía Málaga                 3,000
                         Colombia    Private reserves in mangrove ecosystems of            2,260
                                     Bahía Málaga
                         Colombia    Set aside for conservation in Tumaco by              13,000
                                     Afro-Colombian community councils
                         Colombia    Established as conservation areas as part of          2,000
                                     the network of community councils of the
                                     Pacific (RECONPAS)
                         Colombia    Private reserves                                      2,000
                                     Private reserves established connecting               1,200
                         Colombia    Tatama National Park and Serranìa de Los
                                     Paraguas.
                          Ecuador    Awacachi Biological Corridor established              8,624
                                     connecting the Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological
                                     Reserve with the Awá Indigenous Territories
                          Ecuador    Communal reserve, Gran Reserva Chachi                  7,200
                                     Awá Indigenous Territories in Ecuador                15,000
                          Ecuador    demarcated as part of the Awá Communal
                                     Reserve.
   Total hotspots: 11   Countries: 15                                                  Hectares:
                                                                                     9,393,687.54




                                             39

b) Improving management effectiveness of protected areas

Number of hectares: 21,466,382
Number of hotspots: 9
Number of countries: 16

Global Overview Table

         Hotspot/Region                          Country                Hectares Impacted
          Atlantic Forest                           Brazil                  1,149,272
                                                  Armenia                    41,296
            Caucasus                             Azerbaijan                  46,062
                                                   Russia                   280,335
                                               Côte d'Ivoire                646,000
  Guinean Forests of West Africa
                                               Sierra Leone                   1,200
           Madagascar                           Madagascar                   63,500
                                                 Costa Rica                 643,301
          Mesoamerica                            Nicaragua                  658,280
                                                  Panama                    786,214
            Sundaland                            Indonesia                  1,550,000
            Philippines                         Philippines                 891,000
                                                   Bolivia                  6,152,750
          Tropical Andes
                                                    Peru                    8,236,000
                                                 Colombia                   200,000
    Tumbes-Chocó-Magdalena
                                                 Ecuadaor                   121,172
Total Hotspots: 9                  Countries: 16                       Hectares: 21,466,382

Detailed Summary Table


Hotspot/Region         Country                    Protected Area               Hectares
                                                                               Impacted
Atlantic Forest                     APA Estadual Fernão Dias                         180,073
                                    APA Serra da Mantiqueira                         422,873
                                    Parque Estadual da Serra do Mar                  315,390
                                    Parque Estadual do Ibitipoca                       1,488
                                    Parque Estadual Serra do Papagaio                 22,917
                         Brazil
                                    Parque Estadual Três Picos                        46,350
                                    Parque Nacional da Bocaina                       104,000
                                    Parque Nacional do Itatiaia                       28,155
                                    Rebio União                                        3,126
                                    Reserva Biológica de Tingua                       24,900
   Caucasus                         Khosrov Strict Nature Reserve                     29,296
                       Armenia
                                    Shikahogh Strict Nature Reserve                   12,000
                                    Absheron National Park                               783
                      Azerbaijan    Hyrcan National Park                              21,435
                                    Zakatala Strict Nature Reserve                    23,844
                        Russia      Kavkazsky Biosphere Nature Reserve               280,335
Guinean Forests                     Marahoue National Park                           100,000
of West Africa       Côte d'Ivoire  Mont Peko National Park                           28,000
                                    Tai National Park                                518,000



                                              40

              Sierra Leone  Tiwai Island Wildlife Sanctuary            1,200
Madagascar    Madagascar    Zahamena Protected Area                  63,500
Mesoamerica                 Atlantic Caribbean Indigenous Reserve    254,204
                            Chirripo National Park                    50,358
                            Corcovado National Park                   42,500
              Costa Rica    La Amistad International Park            199,147
                            Maquenque National Park                  54,000
                            Piedras Blancas National Park            14,025
                            Tortuguero National Park                  29,067
                            Cerro Silva Nature Reserve               339,400
              Nicaragua     Indio Maiz Biological Reserve            263,980
                            Punta Gorda Nature Reserve                54,900
                            Baru Volcano National Park                14,000
                            Damani Wetlands                           24,089
                            La Amistad International Park            207,000
                Panama      Naso Indigenous Territory                100,000
                            Ngobe-Bugle Indigenous Territory         300,000
                            Palo Seco Forest Reserve                 125,000
                            San San Pond/Sak Wetland                 16,125
Sundaland                   Bukit Barisan Selatan National Park      360,000
(Sumatra)                   Bukit Tigapuluh National Park            120,000
               Indonesia
                            Leuser National Park                     870,000
                            Siberut National Park                    200,000




                                      41

Hotspot/Region       Country                   Protected Area            Hectares
                                                                         Impacted
   Philippines                   Balinsasayao-Twin Lakes Natural Park           8,000
                                 Mati Philippine Eagle Sanctuary                7,000
                                 Mt. Hamiguitan Protected Area                 32,000
                                 Mt. Hilong-hilong Range Protected             80,000

                    Philippines  Landscape
                                 Northern Negros Natural Park                  80,000
                                 Northern Sierra Madre National Park          359,000
                                 Peñablanca Protected Landscape and           118,000
                                 Seascape
                                 Quirino Protected Landscape                  207,000
 Tropical Andes                  Apolobamba Natural Area                      483,000
                                 Carrasco National Park                       623,000
                                 Cotapata National Park                        51,000
                     Bolivia     Isiboro Secure National Park               1,200,000
                                 Madidi National Park                       1,895,750
                                 Manuripi-Heath National Park               1,500,000
                                 Pilon Lajas Biosphere Reserve                400,000
                                 Alto-Purus Reserved Zone                   2,700,000
                                 Amarakaeri Reserved Zone                     420,000
                                 Apurimac Reserved Zone                     1,700,000
                       Peru
                                 Bahuaja Sonene National Park               1,100,000
                                 Manu National Park                         1,800,000
                                 Tambopata-Candamo National Reserve           516,000
Tumbes-Chocó ­       Colombia    Awá People's Indigenous Territory            200,000
   Magdalena                     Mache Chindul Ecological Reserve             119,172
                     Ecuador
                                 Golondrinas Protective Forest                  2,000
Total Hotspots: 9 Countries: 16                                            21,466,382




                                           42

c) Examples of sectoral policies, laws and regulation effected through CEPF projects

    Hotspot/Region          Country               Changes in policies, laws, regulations

Atlantic Forest        Brazil           State legislation in two states for declaring private
                                        reserves.
Cape Floristic Region  South Africa     Policies and procedures for Conservation Stewardship.
                       South Africa     Guidelines for more biodiversity friendly agriculture,
                                        including potato and wine farming.
                       South Africa     Policy framework for ensuring that biodiversity priorities
                                        are included in Integrated Development Plans for
                                        municipalities.
                       South Africa     Establishment of the stewardship program in CapeNature
                                        for private lands.
                       South Africa     Putting Biodiversity Plans to Work. Integration of
                                        biodiversity priorities in the Provincial Spatial
                                        Development Framework for Western Cape.
Guinean Forest of West Liberia          Enactment of laws to establish Nimba and Sapo National
Africa (Upper Guinean                   Parks.
Forest)                Liberia          Enactment of the Protected Forest Area Network Law in
                                        2004.
Madagascar & Indian    Madagascar       Establishing VAHATRA as a national nongovernmental
Ocean Islands                           organization.
(Madagascar)           Madagascar       Action Plan for the reform of Madagascar's Wildlife
                                        Export Trade adopted by Malagasy authorities with
                                        agreed, transparent quota setting system.
Southern Mesoamerica   Costa Rica       Implementation of land use management regulations in
                                        the Corcovado-Piedras-Blancas corridor.
                       Panama           Cancellation of road through Baru Volcano National
                                        Park.
Mountains of Southwest China            Government deferred plans to build a series of power
China                                   generation dams along the Nu River, a World Heritage
                                        Site.
                       China            37 CEPF-supported projects addressed government
                                        policies in several major national programs: Grain to
                                        Green, Great Western Development Movement, National
                                        Forest Protection Program and National Endangered Plant
                                        and Wildlife Protection and Nature Reserve Program.
Philippines            Philippines      Presidential Executive Order 578 declared all Key
                                        Biodiversity Areas (KBAs) to be "critical habitats" and
                                        directed DENR to promulgate guidelines for their
                                        management and protection.
                       Philippines      Implementing Rules and Regulations (IPR) of the
                                        Wildlife Act (9147) adopted.
                       Philippines      Revised Implementing Rules and Regulations for the
                                        National Integrated Protected Areas System (NIPAS) Act
                                        adopted.
                       Philippines      The National Economic Development Authority (NEDA)
                                        incorporated biodiversity conservation priorities into the
                                        newly updated 30 years Regional Physical Framework



                                           43

                                   Plan (RPFP) of Region 2.
                    Philippines    The Regional Development council (RDC) of Region II
                                   adopted the Sierra Madre Biodiversity Corridor (SMBC)
                                   Strategy.
Succulent Karoo     South Africa   The Northern Cape Government placed a moratorium on
                                   the exploitation of Aloe dichotoma (Kokerboom) from the
                                   wild for local nursery trade.
                    South Africa   Bushmanland Conservation Initiative. MOA with the
                                   Northern Cape Department of Environment and Tourism
                                   and the Botanical Society developed guidelines for
                                   establishment of a network of reserves on private land
                                   owned by Anglo Mining Company.
Sundaland           Indonesia      Five Forest concessions totaling 200,000 ha in Siberut,
                                   Tesso Nilo, Bukit Tigapuluh and Batang Gadis cancelled.
Tumbes-Chocó-       Colombia       Corridor concept incorporated into policies of the
Magdalena (Chocó                   Department of National Parks, the Ministry of Foreign
Manabí Corridor)                   Affairs, and the Ministry of Transportation, Mining and
                                   Energy, and in the 2005-2007 regional environmental
                                   action plan.
Caucasus            Armenia        Lobbying by civil society groups resulted in rerouting of
                                   transnational highway, away from Shikahogh reserve.




                                      44

 d) Examples of initiatives related to financial sustainability

     Hotspot/Region             Country                        Financial sustainability

 Atlantic Forest           Brazil            Proposal for a payment for environmental services scheme
                                             developed.
 Philippines               Philippines       Three municipalities, Butuan City, Del Carmen and
                                             Socorro, provided counterpart funding towards the
                                             development of Watershed Management Plans. Water
                                             Districts in municipalities committed to provide $10,000
                                             annually for implementation of the plans.
                           Philippines       In the municipality of Socorro, Surigao del Sur, a
                                             cooperative was empowered through a municipal
                                             resolution to collect water-fees for watershed management
                                             activities in the absence of a legitimate water district.
                           Philippines       Conservation fund established in new organization, the
                                             Danum Ti Umili Association, for the sustained protection
                                             of the Peñablanca Protected Landscape and Seascape.
 Caucasus                                    Establishment of Caucasus Protected Areas Fund for
                                             Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia

 e) CEPF Grant Leverage and Co-financing

               Hotspot/Region                  Committed Grants            Leveraged and Co-financing
                                                                                       Funds
Multi-Regional Grants*( allocated across
more than one hotspot)                                               n / a                     16,907,180
Atlantic Forest (Brazil)                                        8,000,000                        7,118,529
Cape Floristic Region                                           6,133,169                        3,839,326
Caucasus                                                        6,976,538                      11,911,560
Eastern Arc Mountains and Coastal Forests of                    6,424,798
Tanzania and Kenya                                                                                 912,950
Eastern Himalayas                                               1,658,423                          757,000
Guinean Forests of West Africa (Upper                           6,202,565
Guinean Forest Ecosystem)                                                                      12,094,693
Madagascar and Indian Ocean Islands
(Madagascar)                                                    4,249,840                        6,309,369
Mountains of Southwest China                                    6,451,223                        6,175,203
Northern Mesoamerica                                            4,290,769                        3,135,661
The Philippines                                                 7,000,000                        2,665,465
Southern Mesoamerica                                            5,499,848                      15,873,956
Succulent Karoo                                                 5,788,689                        2,600,229
Sundaland (Sumatra)                                             9,990,069                        6,819,602
Tropical Andes (Vilcabamba-Amboró
Corridor)                                                       6,133,510                      19,408,635
Tumbes-Chocó-Magdalena (Chocó-Manabí                            4,999,975
Corridor)                                                                                      11,374,551

Total Funding                                     $            89,799,414         $           127,903,909
 MAP



                                                45

