                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00003529



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (TF-11836)



                                     ON A

               GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR EDUCATION FUND GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                 US$10 MILLION

                                      TO

                                  MONGOLIA

                                    FOR AN

                      EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION PROJECT


                                December 9, 2015




Education Global Practice
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective October 30, 2015)

                                Currency Unit = MNT (Tugriks)
                                1.00 MNT = US$ 0.000503271
                                  US$ 1.00 = 1,992.00 MNT

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1 – December 31


                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB        Asian Development Bank               IDA          International Development
                                                             Association
CBA        Cost Benefit Analysis                IRR          Internal Rate of Return
EAP-ECDS   East Asia Pacific Early Childhood    ISM          Implementation Support
           Development Scale                                 Mission
CCU        Client Construction Unit             LSMS         Living Standards and Measurement
                                                             Survey
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy         M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
ECD        Early Childhood Development          MTR          Mid-term Review
ECE        Early Childhood Education            MDGs         Millennium Development Goals
EFA-FTI    Education for All-Fast Track         MECS         Ministry of Education, Culture, and
           Initiative                                        Science
EMP        Environmental Management Plan        MRTCUD       Ministry of Roads, Transportation,
                                                             Construction, and Urban
                                                             Development
ESMP2      Education Sector Master Plan         NCB          National Competitive Bidding
FM         Financial Management                 NEMA         National Emergency Management
                                                             Agency
GER        Gross Enrollment Rate                NPV          Net Present Value
GGSEDM     General Guideline for Socio-         PAD          Project Appraisal Document
           Economic Development of Mongolia
GOM        Government of Mongolia               PDO          Project Development Objective
GPE        Global Partnership for Education     PIU          Project Implementation Unit
ICR        Implementation Completion Report     READ         Rural Education and Development
                                                             Project



                  Senior Global Practice Director: Claudia Maria Costin
                                Practice Manager: Harry Anthony Patrinos
                            Project Team Leader: Prateek Tandon
                               ICR Team Leader: Prateek Tandon
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Mongolia Global
                                                                              Partnership for Education
Country:                  Mongolia                  Project Name:
                                                                              Early Childhood
                                                                              Education Project
Project ID:               P125445                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-11836
ICR Date:                 12/09/2015                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:       SIL                       Grantee:                  MONGOLIA
Original Total
                          USD 10.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 9.88M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           USD 9.88M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
      Process               Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:           06/21/2011     Effectiveness:             03/30/2012           03/06/2012
                                                                                         06/09/2014
Appraisal:                08/19/2011     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                         02/27/2015
Approval:                 02/13/2012     Mid-term Review:           10/25/2013           10/25/2013
                                         Closing:                   06/30/2014           06/30/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings              Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                              Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Satisfactory              Government:
                                                                              Unsatisfactory
                                                    Implementing
Quality of Supervision:   Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                                    Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower
                          Satisfactory                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                        Performance:



                                                    i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                 Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                             No                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                               Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                        (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Pre-primary education                                                    100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                          100                    100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:              Axel van Trotsenburg                   Pamela Cox
Country Director:            Bert Hofman                            Klaus Rohland
Practice Manager/Manager: Harry Anthony Patrinos                    Luis Benveniste
Project Team Leader:         Prateek Tandon                         Prateek Tandon
ICR Team Leader:             Prateek Tandon
ICR Primary Author:          Sandra F. Beemer


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective was to assist the Government to cope with the surge in total
fertility rates by providing access to ECE for children in disadvantaged communities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                     ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                   Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                     approval                           Completion or
                                                                      Target Values
                                                   documents)                            Target Years
                  GER of children aged 2-5 in urban districts in UB and where new kindergartens are
Indicator 1 :
                  provided (disaggregated by gender)
                                                                                     UB=72.64%
Value             UB = 67.9%                   UB= 67.9%
                                                                                     Boys=71.9%
quantitative or   Boys = 66.8%                 Boys = 66.8%          N/A
                                                                                     Girls=73.3%
Qualitative)      Girls = 69.1%                Girls = 69.1%
                                                                                     Source: MECS
Date achieved     06/30/2010                   06/30/2014                            06/30/2015
Comments          GER in the areas where project fixed kindergartens were provided increased overall by
(incl. %          4.7 percent; boys increased 5.1 percent and girls increased 4.2 percent. See footnote 11
achievement)      for explanation as to why the target and baseline are the same.
Indicator 2 :     Number of children attending new mobile ger-kindergartens
Value
                                                                                     3,781
quantitative or   0                            1500                 N/A
                                                                                     Source: MECS
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                   06/30/2014                            06/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Average daily attendance rate of the mobile ger kindergartens
Value                                                                                99.8%
quantitative or   0%                                                90%              Source: parent
Qualitative)                                                                         satisfaction survey
Date achieved     06/30/2010                                        06/30/2014       06/30/2015
Comments
                  Target exceeded. Indicator was modified during 2013 proposed restructuring to focus
(incl. %
                  on ger-kindergartens rather than fixed kindergartens.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Satisfaction of parents with the mobile ger service
Value                                                                                91%
quantitative or   0%                                                60%              Source: parent
Qualitative)                                                                         satisfaction survey
Date achieved     06/30/2010                                        06/30/2014       06/30/2015
Comments
                  Target exceeded. Indicator was modified during 2013 proposed restructuring to focus
(incl. %
                  on ger-kindergartens rather than fixed kindergartens.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Percentage of beneficiaries from disadvantaged communities
Value                                                                                71%
quantitative or   0%                           50%                  N/A              Source: parent
Qualitative)                                                                         satisfaction survey
Date achieved     06/30/2010                   06/30/2014                            06/30/2015
Comments
                  Target exceeded. Disadvantaged means 72.5 percent of the parents sending their
(incl. %
                  children to ger-kindergartens were herder families with unstable earnings or
achievement)

                                                      iii
                  unemployed; 71 percent were 100km from the aimag center where fixed kindergartens
                  are located.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                 Values (from                             Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised Target
                                                   approval                              Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                  documents)                             Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase state-owned kindergarten facilities by 3.4%
Value
                                                                                      777 or 7.6% increase
(quantitative     722                           759                   745
                                                                                      Source: MECS
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                   06/30/2014                            06/30/2015
Comments          Target exceeded. Indicator target was modified from 5.1 to 3.4 percent in 2013 based
(incl. %          on reduction of GPE fixed kindergartens. The overall increase is attributed to additional
achievement)      government kindergartens in the amount of 60-70 each year as of 2013.
Indicator 2 :     Increase mobile alternative teaching classes by 14.1%
Value                                                                                658 or a 7.4%
(quantitative     711                          811                  N/A              decrease
or Qualitative)                                                                      Source: MECS
Date achieved     06/30/2010                   06/30/2014                            06/30/2015
Comments          The project supplied 100 mobile ger-kindergartens but government has not replaced
(incl. %          state-provided mobile ger-kindergartens because of rural migration to urban areas and
achievement)      increased attendance in fixed kindergartens.
Indicator 3 :     Increase in the number of children enrolled in kindergartens by 4,000
Value
                                                                                      206,636
(quantitative     142,065                       147,565               143,565
                                                                                      Source: MECS
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                    06/30/2014            06/30/2014      06/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded. The increase in kindergarten enrollment from 2010-15 was 64,571.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Direct project beneficiaries of which female (%)
Value                                                                                 6,738
(quantitative     0                             3,200 (47%)           N/A             (49.2%)
or Qualitative)                                                                       Source: PIU
Date achieved     06/30/2010                    06/30/2014                            06/30/2015
Comments
                  Target exceeded. This indicator was added during the 2013 proposed restructuring to
(incl. %
                  accommodate the new IDA indicator requirements.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                   Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                              IP
          Archived                                                                      (USD millions)
  1      07/07/2012              Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                2.00


                                                      iv
  2     01/28/2013          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory             2.00
  3     09/17/2013     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             2.00
  4     05/15/2014    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory            4.35
  5     09/26/2014    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              6.66
  6     11/26/2014     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             8.10
  7     06/11/2015     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            10.00


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring             Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           (i) extend the project closing date
                                                           by 12 months from June 30, 2014
                                                           to June 30, 2015; and (ii)
                                                           reallocate proceeds from Category
  06/09/2014                 MU      MU           4.35     1 (Works) to Category 4
                                                           (Operating Costs) to facilitate
                                                           monitoring expenses related to the
                                                           supervision of the fixed
                                                           kindergartens.
                                                           (i) reallocate project savings of
                                                           approximately US$1.5 million in
                                                           Category 1 (civil works) due to
                                                           devaluation of the Mongolian
                                                           Tugrik. These funds were
                                                           reallocated to Category 2 (goods),
                                                           Category 3 (consultant services)
                                                           and Category 4 (operating costs) to
                                                           supply additional learning
                                                           materials and equipment to
                                                           kindergartens throughout the
  02/27/2015                 MS      MS           9.85
                                                           country, conduct some preliminary
                                                           policy research on teaching and
                                                           learning practices on ECE, and
                                                           facilitate additional management
                                                           costs and audit expenses; and (ii)
                                                           formally amend the project
                                                           description and adjust the results
                                                           framework that had already been
                                                           approved January 23, 2013 but not
                                                           formally countersigned by the
                                                           Recipient.




                                              v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     Country Context. In 1990, Mongolia transitioned from a planned economy to a market
democracy and has experienced two decades of dramatic transformation. Mongolia was seen as a
country with a rich nomadic culture and history, but facing a range of development constraints. It
was (and remains) the least densely populated country in the world with 1.7 persons for one square
kilometer of land, making service delivery extremely costly. It is landlocked, making it necessary
to import most of its goods by means of a slow and expensive land transport system. It faces
extreme climate conditions ranging from over 40 degrees Celsius to minus 50 degrees Celsius,
which make the construction seasons short, and can dramatically affect livestock and agriculture.
Although the development of a market economy and mineral resources increased public revenue,
the proportion of people living below the national poverty line was 35 percent in 2008.

2.      At the time of appraisal, approximately 40 percent of the population lived in the capital
city, Ulaanbaatar, and migration to urban areas continued to increase. Poverty was significantly
higher in rural areas than in urban centers, at 47 percent versus 27 percent. In education, the urban
and rural disparity was manifested in access, school completion rates, and learning outcomes and
inequity in education was perpetuating the cycle of poverty.

3.       Sectoral Context. The Ministry of Education, Culture and Science (MECS) developed a
new Education Sector Master Plan (ESMP2) for 2006-2015 that built on the General Guideline for
Socio-Economic Development of Mongolia (GGSEDM) for 2006-2008. The GGSEDM identified
five priority actions for education: (i) reduce school dropouts and provide elementary education
for all children (raising primary education coverage to 94.5 percent by 2008); (ii) transform
secondary education into an 11-year system by 2006 and a 12-year system by 2007; (iii) improve
the learning environment and physical facilities at secondary schools and assure sufficient supply
of teachers and textbooks; (iv) lower gender inequality in primary and secondary school enrollment
as well as literacy levels; and (v) increase access to schools for children with disabilities by
establishing necessary equipment at schools. The ESMP2 sought to sequence the government
priorities by: (i) upgrading education quality at all levels of schooling and producing citizens who
could function effectively in a modern market economy; (ii) providing education services that
could be accessed by children in all parts of the country, including rural areas, and poor and
vulnerable groups; and (iii) improving the management capacity of central and local educational
institutions at all levels.

4.      The 2010 population census showed that Mongolia had a very young population – nearly
30 percent under the age of 14 and about 12 percent under the age of 5. Basic education in
Mongolia had followed the trends of decline and recovery in the economy. The 1990s saw a drastic
decline in school enrollment ratios; the 2000s witnessed a recovery to the pre-transition level in
pre-primary through lower secondary education and it was expected that the current decade would
see an extension of access in pre-primary and secondary education and an effort to improve quality.

5.    The recovery in basic education began with the development of the ESMP2 (2006-2015)
which received considerable donor support. The Bank-supported Rural Education and
                                                 1
Development Project (READ) (IDA-H2210 IDA-H3730 TF-96333) and then by the Global
Partnership for Education (GPE) (formerly the Educational for All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA-
FTI)) Project (2007-2012) were part of the ESMP2 support. The GPE’s involvement was
consistent with the GPE goal of providing financial assistance to help low- and middle-income
countries around the world achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in education.
The Bank’s involvement was also consistent with the Government of Mongolia’s (GOM)
commitment to the achievement of the MDGs by 2015. Moreover, the project was consistent with
the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) 2009-2010 pillar two of inclusive growth. The government knew
that low levels of educational attainment were key determinants of poverty and that poverty could
be a key factor that limited access to and quality of schooling. Therefore, investment in education
was important because improvements in the sector could break the intergenerational transmission
of poverty.

6.       In 2012, 24 percent of the 2-5 age group1 (44,903 children) did not have access to early
childhood education (ECE) due to the lack of kindergarten facilities, and the vast majority of them
were from disadvantaged communities such as herders and the poor in peri-urban areas. The rising
total fertility rate from 2.2 in 2000 to 2.7 in 2009 was in part due to the government introduction
of child care cash transfers payable to every family for each child. It was expected if the 2009 level
of fertility and capacity held, without an increase in supply, that gross enrollment rate (GER) in
kindergartens would decline from 76 percent in 2010 to perhaps just over 50 percent by 2015,
instead of rising to the target of 79 percent in 2012. A MECS study on school readiness, done in
collaboration with the United Nationals Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in 2008, found major
differences in school readiness between 6-year-olds who had attended kindergartens and those
who did not. Therefore, a decline in GER in kindergarten could create a domino effect: far fewer
children, particularly those from disadvantaged backgrounds, would have access to free school
meals offered in kindergartens to improve their nutritional status; school readiness would
necessarily suffer, student achievement would decline, the dropout rate would increase, and overall
educational quality would be hampered.

7.     The MECS recognized that investments in ECE were a highly cost-effective strategy to
break the inter-generational transmission of poverty and to improve long term productivity. The
Mongolian Pre-school Education Law of 2008 stipulated that the provision of food, books,
manuals and appropriate toys for children attending state-owned kindergartens as well as the norm-
based variable costs, should be financed from the state budget. Prior to the law’s implementation,
parents were obligated to pay 50 percent of food costs and other expenses -- major obstacles for
parents to enroll their children to preschool. The law lifted this financial barrier, and drastically
increased demand for preschool education. The trend in public spending per student in
kindergarten showed a strong commitment from the Government. Between 2006 and 2011, despite
an increase in enrollment from 95,038 to 122,126 students, per student spending increased from
US$146 to US$643.


1
  In 2010, GER in kindergartens rose dramatically from 57 percent in 2007 to 76 percent in 2010, largely due to the
rapid increase of donor-financed mobile ger-kindergartens. However, ger-kindergartens operate only in the summer
to reach out to the herders. While having ger-kindergartens is better than none, they are not comparable to the services
delivered by fixed kindergartens because of the short duration.


                                                           2
8.      Signifying the Government’s commitment to ECE, a national policy on integrated ECE
had been adopted jointly by MECS, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Social Welfare
and Labor. The policy coordinated the efforts of state central organizations in charge of mother
and child health care, nutrition, social welfare and protection, and education. In addition to
building kindergartens for children aged 2–5, the policy provided in-service training for all ECE
teachers in Mongolia, consultation services for families, mothers, and women through pediatric
and psychological home services, non-formal education services, telephone and internet
counseling services, training and information campaigns on radio, television, in newspapers, and
other print media. These outreach activities included counseling information on nutrition, hygiene,
immunization, health care, and child-rearing practices that can stimulate social and cognitive
development. These activities were codified into the national law on ECE in Mongolia.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

9.      The project development objective was to assist the Government to cope with the surge in
total fertility rates by providing access to ECE for children in disadvantaged2 communities. The
key indicators were: (i) GER of children aged 2-5 in the urban districts in Ulaanbaatar (UB) and
in aimag3 centers where new kindergartens are provided (disaggregated by gender); (ii) number of
children attending new mobile ger-kindergartens; (iii) average daily attendance rates in the 37
fixed kindergartens; (iv) parental satisfaction with the ECE service; and (v) percentage of
beneficiaries from disadvantaged areas.4 The project objective was to be achieved by increasing
the supply of fixed kindergartens in urban and peri-urban areas, creating alternative preschool
classes in mobile ger-kindergartens that follow herders in the summer, improving teaching and
learning environments, supplying learning materials, furniture, equipment and toys, and
undertaking monitoring and evaluation (M&E).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

10.     The PDO was not modified over the life of the project however, the key indicators were
modified in January 2013 and subsequently monitor and reported on in project Implementation
Status and Results (ISRs) reports. The modification are as follows:




2
  Disadvantaged communities were selected based on children between ages 2-5 that had relatively low enrollment
ratios in kindergarten.
3
  Mongolia is divided administratively into UB and 21 aimags (provinces). UB is divided into districts and Khoroos
(city wards). The aimags are divided into districts known as soums, and soums are divided into baghs (villages).
4
  Baseline data used for the indicators was for school year 2009-10. School year 2011-12 data was not available
until after the project became effective in March 2012. Therefore, baseline data for the PAD and the first ISR
remained the same.


                                                        3
             Original PDO Indicator                          Adjustments made in 2013
 GER of children aged 2-5 in the urban districts      Changed to remove sub-indicators that
 in Ulaanbaatar (UB) and aimag centers where          were tracking aimag center GER because
 new kindergartens are provided (disaggregated        the number of new kindergartens was
 by gender)                                           reduced and were constructed in UB.
 Number of children attending new mobile ger-         Continued as originally designed
 kindergartens
 Average daily attendance rate of the 37 fixed        Changed to track the attendance rates of
 kindergartens                                        mobile ger-kindergartens
 Satisfaction of parent with service                  Modified to track satisfaction of mobile
                                                      ger-kindergartens only.
 Percentage of beneficiaries from disadvantaged       Continued as originally designed
 communities
             Intermediate Indicators
 Increase state-owned kindergarten facilities by      Changed to 3.4 percent due to decrease in
 5.1 percent                                          the number of kindergartens to be built
                                                      during the project period.
 Increase mobile alternative teaching classes by      Continued as originally designed
 14.1%
 Increase the number of children enrolled in          Changed to 4,000 due to decrease in the
 kindergarten by 5,500                                number of kindergartens to be built during
                                                      the project period.
 Direct project beneficiaries (number) of which       Added to meet corporate requirements
 female (%)

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified children between the ages of 2-5 who
live in communities which have relatively low enrollment ratios in kindergarten as the primary
beneficiaries of the project. It was expected that each year approximately 4,000 additional children
would be able to attend fixed kindergartens and 1,500 additional children would benefit from the
supply of mobile ger-kindergartens. Direct project beneficiaries having benefitted from project
interventions reached approximately 6,738 children of which 49.2 percent were female. This does
not include the indirect beneficiaries such as parents and decentralized ministry staff who
benefitted from knowledge transfer and other forms of capacity building activities as well as
teachers who benefited from being able to use new and better learning materials.

1.5 Original Components

12.    Component 1: Increasing Kindergarten Capacity in Urban and Peri-urban Areas
(GPE-US$9,315,000 and Counterpart--US$2,849,000) was to provide a set of interventions that
were directed towards ensuring that children ages 2-5 in the urban and peri-urban areas would have
access to kindergartens by: (i) building 37 new kindergartens, of which 21 would be located in
aimag centers and 16 in UB and (ii) providing furniture, equipment, indoor and outdoor
playgrounds, teaching and learning materials and kitchens for the new kindergartens.

                                                 4
13.    Component 2: Creating Alternative Pre-school Classes in Rural Areas (GPE -
US$475,000- and Counterpart-US$0.0) was to provide financing to: (i) purchase 100 mobile
ger-kindergartens and (ii) produce and print learning materials for alternative classrooms.

14.    Component 3: Grant Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (GPE -
US$210,000-and Counterpart US$0.0) was to provide financing to: (i) support the project
implementation unit (PIU); (ii) conduce the parent survey; and (iii) overall project monitoring and
evaluation (M&E).

1.6 Revised Components

15.     The components were not revised over the life of the project however some of the targets
were modified following the mid-term review (MTR), which were recorded in a project
restructuring in January 23, 2013.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

16.    On December 15, 2011, the GPE approved a grant in the amount of US$10 million to
implement the ECE project. The grant agreement was signed on March 6, 2012 between the GOM
and the Bank acting as the supervising entity of the GPE funds.

17.     On November 20, 2012 the Mongolian Ministry of Finance requested that the project be
restructured and on January 21, 2013, the project was restructured and approved by the country
director with an amendment letter dated January 23, 2013 to: (i) reduce the original number of
kindergartens to be built from 37 to 25 (17 from GPE funds and 8 from government funds) in
response to cost escalation of raw materials and to remain within the budget;5 (ii) adjust the results
framework to accommodate the reduction in the project interventions; (iii) add a contingency
expenditure category with 13 percent of project funds to absorb any possible future price
escalation; and (iv) reallocate project funds from the works category to consultant services to hire
a civil works officer to help the PIU with implementation. Based on these modifications and
agreements, the Bank’s ISRs were adjusted to monitor the revised indicators and data was collected
according to the revisions. However, the January 23, 2013 amendment letter was not countersigned
by the Recipient because of elections and a change in the government which replaced personnel in
the Ministry of Finance.

18.     On June 9, 2014 the project was restructured to: (i) extend the project closing date by 12
months from June 30, 2014 to June 30, 2015; and (ii) reallocate proceeds from Category 1 (Works)
to Category 4 (Operating Costs) to facilitate monitoring expenses related to the supervision of the
fixed kindergartens.



5
 Cost of some construction materials had increased by more than 50 percent; distribution costs had increased with
price increases in gasoline; and the government’s benchmark standard pricing for machinery increased between 3-5
times.


                                                       5
19.    On February 27, 2015 the project was restructured to: (i) reallocate project savings of
approximately US$1.5 million in Category 1 (civil works) due to devaluation of the Mongolian
Tugrik. These funds were reallocated to Category 2 (goods), Category 3 (consultant services) and
Category 4 (operating costs) to supply additional learning materials and equipment to
kindergartens throughout the country, conduct some preliminary policy research on teaching and
learning practices on ECE, and facilitate additional management costs and audit expenses; and (ii)
formally amend the project description and adjust the results framework that had already been
approved January 23, 2013 but not formally countersigned by the Recipient. The lack of
countersignature was discovered in February 2015. With the GPE Secretariat’s approval on
February 3, 2015, the amendment to the grant agreement and reallocation was signed between the
Bank and Ministry of Finance on March 4, 2015.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.     Project Preparation. The ECE project was prepared as a GPE-supported “graduation
grant” because being an International Development Agency (IDA) Category III classified country,
Mongolia no longer qualified to receive funding from the GPE. However, in June 2011 the GPE
Board of Directors considered that IDA Category III countries could be eligible for GPE funding
as an exit strategy from the GPE. Based on this decision, the GOM requested a grant of US$10
million from the GPE board which was allocated and approved by the GPE board in December
2011. The Bank was selected, by the government, to be the supervising entity and to assist the
MECS in the preparation of the application in close collaboration with other donors in Mongolia.

21.      The preparation team used the Specific Investment Loan (SIL) instrument given the
targeted nature of program interventions. The team included project activities based on lessons
learned from other Bank-supported education projects as well as those being implemented by
development partners (UNICEF, Asian Development Bank (ADB), and GPE). These included: (i)
use of mobile ger-kindergartens to reach the most disadvantaged areas; (ii) construction of child-
friendly, low cost, energy efficient kindergartens; and (iii) provision of learning materials. Project
preparation also benefited from the fact that the PIU from the first GPE project was still in place
at the time of preparation and had extensive experience with implementation of investment projects
as well as procurement, financial management (FM), contract management and working with the
Education Donors’ Consultative Mechanism (EDCM). These experiences and lessons learned
helped the team prepare and appraise the proposed program in seven months and meet GPE’s
December 2011 submission deadline.

22.    Program preparation was thoughtful, collaborative and technically sound and benefitted
from a deliberative process between MECS, donor partners and the Bank. The Bank preparation
and appraisal teams consisted of technical experts that were appropriate for the development of
the program and included peer reviewers with extensive ECE knowledge and experience that
provided sound guidance on the project design.

23.    Project Design and Quality at Entry. The project design fit into the government’s
Education Sector Master Plan (ESMP2) for 2006-2015 that provided the platform for sectoral
planning and financing, the GPE goals of meeting the 2015 MDG goals, and the Bank’s Interim
                                                  6
Strategy Note 2009-10. The project design took into consideration comments from the peer
reviewers during the concept and appraisal review meetings which included: (i) focusing the
project on intermediary outcomes such as quality of the preschool environment; (ii) including
indicators that measured average attendance rate of preschoolers and disaggregated participation
in Early Childhood Development (ECD) within the 2-5 age group; and (iii) keeping the design
simple considering the short two year implementation period for the GPE project.

24.     The PDO was in line with the government’s priorities and was reflective of the program’s
activities. The key indicators were appropriate for measuring progress toward achieving the PDO
and the targets reflected the original project targets. As indicated, in January 2013, the targets were
revised to reflect a reduction in the number of kindergartens being constructed due to considerable
escalation in construction costs. At the same time the IDA core indicator6 that measures direct
project beneficiaries was added to the results framework. The government public investment plan
was to build 300 kindergartens nationwide over a period of 5 years beginning in 2013 and with the
project resources the government was able to add additional schools to the plan. The additional
schools, at the ministry request, targeted the areas in UB with the highest access disparities.

25.      The project design included a two year implementation period which was shorter than the
usual three year implementation period for GPE projects. This was because GPE considered the
project allocation to be bridge financing as Mongolia graduated and could, at the time, only
guarantee the funding for two years. As a result, the project design was kept simple and comprised
three components, primarily related to access to ECE, with a very limited number of activities. In
addition, at the request of GPE, the design included counterpart funds to show government
commitment to the sub-sector since Mongolia was transitioning from GPE supported projects. The
design also included alternative preschool classes in rural areas especially for herders’ children by
providing mobile ger-kindergartens, a UNICEF innovation, and a continuation of an activity from
the first EFA-FTI project.

26.     The implementation arrangements included the use of a PIU with staff from the first GPE
project to accommodate the short two year implementation period as well as a third party monitor
to ensure the quality of construction of the fixed kindergartens. The design also included a parent
survey to assess parent satisfaction with the new kindergartens. As indicated, this was modified in
January 2013 to conduct a parent satisfaction survey of the mobile ger-kindergartens. The
preparation team identified project risks and proposed adequate mitigation measures. (See
paragraph 57 for further discussion on risks.)

2.2 Implementation

27.    Program implementation was initially slow. The project became effective in March 2012
and by the first supervision mission in June 2012 there was little physical progress. Applications
had been made as early as December 2011 to get approval from the Ministry of Roads,


6
  “Core indicators” are a set of indicators introduced by the Bank in July 2009 to allow for the systematic capture of
results data at a country, sector, regional, and institutional level. These indicators are required for operations of IDA-
eligible countries.


                                                            7
Transportation, Construction, and Urban Development (MRTCUD) for the two-storied buildings
using Canadian wood framed technology 7. However, by June 2012 the approval was still pending
because of changes in government. Until the MRTCUD approved the use of the wood framed
technology and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) made recommendations
on the needed fire safety requirements, design work on the kindergartens could not begin. In
addition, by September 2012, the Bank, the ministry Client Construction Unit (CCU) and PIU had
to work together to re-estimate the project costs because: (i) the price of some construction
materials had increased by more than 50 percent as a consequence of the economic volatility of
Mongolia’s commodity-dependent economy; (ii) distribution costs had increased with price
increases in gasoline; and (iii) the government’s benchmark standard pricing for machinery
increased between 3-5 times as a new material pricing directory became effective under the order
of the Ministry of Construction. Based on this, it was agreed that project could no longer finance
37 kindergartens and agreed to reduce the number of schools constructed with GPE funds to 17
and government funded kindergartens to 8. This led to the November 2012 project restructuring.
The restructuring was appropriate considering that the price escalations were well beyond the
inflation rates considered during the original project costing. Furthermore, with the reduced
numbers of schools, it was appropriate to adjust the indicator targets which were directly tied to
the number of kindergartens being constructed and to focus some of the outcomes on the mobile
ger-kindergartens given the project investment in these kindergartens.

28.     During the first week of January 2013, the PIU team was released from their positions,
with the exception of the financial officer, because a new government had been elected and almost
all technical-level MECS staff were being replaced. By April 2013, a new PIU staff was in place.
They had limited experience in project implementation so the Bank team in Mongolia provided
intensive support on a daily basis to the PIU and MECS in order to quickly overcome the capacity
constraints. Also in January 2013, after a 15 month delay, the MRTCUD and NEMA sent the CCU
the approval for using the wood framed technology so that engineering firms could begin to design
the schools. By August 2013, (i) the designs had been approved and the Bank’s final no objection
letter (NOL) had been issued on the bidding documents; (ii) it was expected that the foundations
could be set during the 2013 construction season thereby ensuring a timely completion of the
construction; (iii) the mobile ger-kindergartens has been procured and distributed; (iv) the plan for
sampling of the parental satisfaction survey had been agreed with the Bank; (v) review of the
Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) showed no unusual items; and (vi) the team was planning for a
October 2013 MTR.

29.     In November 2013, the MTR confirmed that the project was still relevant and remained in
line with the ESMP2 and that the development objectives remained valid. However, at the time of
the MTR the project was downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory. This was because construction



7
  The applications for the designs were submitted to the Ministry of Roads, Transportation, Construction and Urban
Development in December 2011 and the approvals were received in January 2013. The designs were Canadian wood
framed kindergartens that were selected because: (i) Canada had similar temperature fluctuations to that of Mongolia
and (ii) they were considered less expensive than the traditional brick structures used in Mongolia. Given that
Mongolia plans to build approximately 60-70 new kindergartens over the next five years, the Canadian wood framed
technology is being considered for nationwide construction beginning in 2016.


                                                         8
on two of the 17 kindergartens was again delayed due to: (i) a land dispute which had been resolved
to the full satisfaction of the ministry and the complainants; and (ii) the foundation for one school
could not be set because of severe weather in the Baganuur district. These delays would necessitate
a one year extension of the project closing date from June 30, 2014 to June 30, 2015 in order to
ensure achievement of the PDO.

30.      By October 2014, construction had progressed significantly with: (i) ten kindergartens
completed and occupancy certificates issued and handed over to the school principal; (ii) six
kindergartens at advanced stages of completion with four expecting occupancy certificates; and
(iii) one kindergarten approximately 55 percent completed. The third party monitor for reviewing
the quality of construction had been appointed and was providing input to ensure quality. Demands
for enrollment in the new kindergartens had increased by 70 percent and principals were requesting
extra furniture based on the increased demand. Moreover, the 100 mobile ger-kindergartens had
been supplied and distributed and had approximately 2,500 children from herder families were
attending in the summer. The parent satisfactory survey had also been administered to
approximately 2,000 parents from the 100 mobile ger-kindergartens. The project disbursements
had also increased to 81 percent of total grant funds. All-in-all substantial progress after the initial
delays was evident.

31.     As mentioned previously, in February 27, 2015 the project was restructured to reallocate
project savings due to devaluation of the Mongolian Tugrik that resulted in a project savings of
approximately US$1.5 million. At that time, there was agreement to use the additional funds to
supply toys and books to 500 public kindergartens nationwide because the state budget had not
been able to cover the costs of toys and books over the previous five year period. The decision was
appropriate because it supported the overall effort to lay the groundwork for important school
readiness concepts and would enhance the project’s development impact significantly.

32.     By project closing all activities had been completed. (See Annex 2 for details on project
outputs). There were six Bank review and implementation support missions from September 2012
to May 2015. The makeup of the Bank teams was consistently appropriate and well balanced. Each
team composition reflected the needs of the respective mission and included specialists from the
areas of education, FM, procurement, construction, environment, social, and monitoring and
evaluation specialists as necessary. The total project disbursements were approximately US$10.0
million or 100 percent of the total of US$10.00 million and all activities were completed prior to
project closing on June 30, 2105.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

33.     Design. The M&E design had two principal dimensions. The monitoring of the results
framework and project outputs was to be done by the PIU. As indicated above, the results
framework was restructured in 2013 to modify targets based on the reduced size of the project
inputs which was the appropriate course of action. Secondly, the project included a parental
satisfaction survey to assess parent’s satisfaction with the mobile ger-kindergartens and to gather
data on their perception of their children’s development upon receipt of the kindergarten services.
The survey collected data from a representative sample of parents of the 100 mobile ger-



                                                   9
kindergartens in the 14 targeted aimags.8 This was an important design feature for understanding
the effectiveness of this intervention.

34.    Implementation and Utilization. The PIU and MECS/EMIS regularly provided Bank
missions with data and information that allowed teams to make judgments on progress toward
achieving the PDO and the project’s overall implementation. This information was consistently
reported through the Bank’s aide-memoires and Implementation Status and Results (ISRs) reports.
The PIU also monitored the project outputs and used the information to make the appropriate
adjustments in its annual plans and progress reports. The results of the parental satisfaction survey
were used to develop a database that monitor and study the sample group of children’s physical
well-being and motor development; social and emotional development; approach to
learning/language development; cognitive development; and general knowledge. This is a
substantial achievement for a three year implementation period.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35.     Environment and Social Aspects. The program was rated a Category “B” operation,
requiring partial assessment. The program’s compliance was rated “satisfactory” throughout its
life. The project prepared Environmental Safeguards Guidelines that included an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) to be used in mitigating any adverse impacts caused by construction
activities that were used by the construction engineers. In addition, the two-story wood frame
building technology required the approval of the Ministry of Roads, Transportation, Construction
and Urban Development prior to being constructed and the National Emergency Management
Agency on fire safety requirements. The construction engineers used the EMP during construction
which was routinely verified during implementation support missions (ISMs) so that by project
closing, the Bank’s engineer and environmental safeguards specialist confirmed that civil works
were completed in compliance with the EMP and relevant environmental laws. Compliance to the
safeguards guidelines as well as fire safety were monitored and reported on extensively during
ISMs by the Bank team engineer who participated all mission. By project closing, all the additional
recommendations made related to fire safety had been completed.9

36.     There was no land acquisition expected since all works were to be located on state-owned
land. However, at the time of the October 2013 MTR, there was a land dispute concerning garages
registered with the MECS and Bayangol District Property Administration. Under the oversight of


8
  The sample survey methodology was to assess the satisfaction of parents from the 100 mobile ger-kindergartens
provided by the GPE project. ECE offices within education departments in each aimag were trained on how to conduct
interviews and fill out questionnaires. The survey was done in August/September 2014 and the sample covered 2,002
parents sending their children to mobile ger-kindergartens in 14 aimags.
9
  The fire safety recommendations and actions included fully functioning fire sprinkler systems and smoke detectors.
To ensure that the sprinkler systems were fully functional contractors made modifications as requested such as: (i)
moving sprinkler system pipes that were above the floor-to-ceiling down to avoid freezing during the winter; (ii)
ensuring that they systems had a separate electrical circuit; (iii) ensuring that all schools had fire extinguishers; (iv)
ensuring that water storage tanks circulated water so that the water did not remain stagnant, (v) ensuring exit lighting
along with drawing of fire exit schemes; (vi) training for school principals and staff on running and maintaining the
fire system; and (vii) ensuring that fire zones were clearly marked on the fire panels.


                                                           10
the Bank’s social development specialist, the dispute was resolved to the satisfaction of all parties
and all related documents were filed as required. The Bank’s OP/BP 4.10 was triggered but a
separate Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) was not required because the Kazakh communities were
the overwhelming majority in Bayan-Ulgii and the elements of an IPP were included in the overall
project design.

37.     Financial Management. Financial management remained satisfactory throughout the life
of the project. The unaudited interim financial reports (IFRs) were submitted on time. The project
audit reports were also submitted on time and were always unqualified (clean). Disbursements
during the first two years of project implementation were slow mainly due to the delays in the
construction of the kindergartens. As mentioned above, once the kindergarten construction began
in earnest, disbursements were on target.

38.     Procurement. Early during project implementation procurement was rated moderately
unsatisfactory due to the delays related to construction already mentioned. However, by project
closing procurement was rated satisfactory because procurement capacity within the PIU had been
improved which was evidenced with the procurement of books for kindergartens nationwide in
February 2015. Improved capacity was further evidenced by the fact that in May 2015 one of
suppliers filed a complaint that that the PIU was able to handle to the full satisfaction of the Bank.
Procurement plans were prepared and routinely submitted for review by the Bank, found to be
acceptable and used as a basis to judge overall implementation progress. Bank implementation
support missions carried out ex-post reviews and also confirmed that the project was in conformity
with the project and the Bank’s procurement guidelines.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

39.    The MECS and government are fully committed to continuing support for ECE. The 2008
education law mandates that 4 percent of the total education budget be allocated to ECE. The
government, in parallel with the ECE project implementation, began constructing kindergartens to
accommodate the high birth rate of approximately 80,000 children in 2013 and 2014. Starting in
2013, approximately 60-70 kindergartens per year are being constructed for an estimated total cost
of US$35 million per year 10 . The government is also hiring the needed teachers for these
kindergartens. The Bank and Save the Children have also conducted a study11 that: (i) looks at
ECE outcomes throughout the country and how they differ by social and economic status and (ii)
analyzes possible reasons for variations in outcomes. Once completed, the study will be used by
the government to inform future policy decisions for ECE as well as future project development.
In addition, the Bank has an ongoing Mongolia: JSDF Grant for Improving Primary Education
Outcomes for the Most Vulnerable Children in Rural Mongolia Project that is providing a school
preparation program that works with vulnerable children (5-6 years of age) by introducing home
based school preparation with active participation of parents and community stakeholders.
Building on the experience of the ECE project and the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF)



10
     The total costs includes operating costs.
11
     The results of the study will be available by May 2016.


                                                           11
grant project, the MECS and Bank will continue to focus future cooperation on ECE related
activities. Discussions are underway for further IDA support to ECE under IDA 17.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

40.     Relevance of Objectives. The project development objectives were highly relevant to the
country’s sectoral needs when the project was developed. The objectives fit into the government’s
ESMP2 for 2006-2015 and the Bank’s 2009-2010 Interim Strategy Note. They shared many
common objectives related to increased access of poor and vulnerable groups to basic education
services. The project objectives continue to fit into the FY2013-17 CPS for Mongolia and the
ESMP2, both indicating that improving the delivery of education services is a national priority and
a core part of the government’s overall strategy for education. The objectives also continue to be
aligned with the Bank’s twin goals of eradicating extreme poverty and increasing shared prosperity
given that literature on human capital has documented the positive correlation between human
capital investment and social and economic development.

41.     Relevance of Design. The project design was highly relevant and, again, aligned with the
government’s ESMP2. The overall design was simple to accommodate the original two year
implementation period and built on experiences gained from other Bank and donor supported
projects. The PDO was simple and the indicators were appropriate to measure achievement of the
development objectives. When the project was restructured to reduce the number of fixed
kindergartens, the indicators were adjusted appropriately to measure achievement of the PDO. The
inclusion of the mobile ger-kindergartens was appropriate considering the herders’ nomadic
lifestyle and the ongoing effort of the government to increase the preschool enrollment in the rural
areas. While exogenous factors led to the replacement of the original PIU staff, the original design
that included staff from the first GPE project was appropriate. The parent satisfaction survey was
also an appropriate design feature.

42.     Relevance of Implementation. The relevance of project implementation is judged to be
substantial. As indicated above, there were implementation challenges related to the construction
of the fixed kindergartens. However, the PIU, working with Bank staff, were able to resolve the
issues and complete all the fixed kindergartens. The implementation team also completed all the
other planned activities as well as the additional activities of purchasing and distributing the
additional books and toys nationwide. Moreover, the team conducted the parent satisfaction
survey, developed a tracking data base and analyzed the data which will be used for informing
future policy decisions. It should also be noted that the implementation team complied with all of
the extra requests and requirements related to the fire safety of the construction of the Canadian
wood frame kindergartens. After each Bank ISM all requested modifications were completed so
that the schools were in compliance with the required safety regulations. These are all substantial
achievements for a short three year implementation period.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

43.     The project development objective was to assist the Government to cope with the surge in
total fertility rates by providing access to ECE for children in disadvantaged communities. The

                                                12
project invested in 25 fixed kindergartens in UB and 100 mobile ger kindergartens all in
disadvantaged communities to assist the government in meeting the increasing demand for
kindergarten services. There were five PDO level indicator selected to measure achievement of
the PDO and all were met or exceed. This section evaluates the outcomes of the project against the
results framework that was adjusted in January 2013. This decision is based on the fact that: (i)
January 2013 was when the Government of Mongolia (GoM) requested the framework be adjusted
to accommodate the reduction in project scope; (ii) the Bank completed the formal restructuring
and it was approved the Bank although not countersigned by GoM; and (iii) the indicators were
officially adjusted in the Bank’s ISR system and data was collected using the new indicators.
Figure 1 provides a schematic of project intervention and more details on project outputs can be
found in Annex 2.

Figure 1: Schematic of Project Interventions

              OBJECTIVE                    1st ORDER DRIVERS   2nd ORDRER DRIVERS                 INTERVENTIONS



                                                                    Facilities            Fixed Kindergarten Construction

                                            Urban Children

                                                                Learning Materials          Provision of Books and Toys
 To assist the Government to cope  
   with the  surge  in total  fertility 
  rates by providing access to ECE 
   for children in disadvantaged 
            communities                                             Facilities           Mobile  Ger Kindergarten Provision

                                             Rural  Children

                                                                Learning Materials          Provision of Books and Toys




44.      There was considerable progress in the PDO level indicators during the life of the project.
With the completion of the project kindergartens, the GER of children aged 2-5 in the urban
districts in UB and where new kindergartens were provided increased from 67.9 percent in 2012
to 72.64 percent in 2014/15 exceeding the target of 67.912 percent. The percent of boys increases
from 66.8 percent to 71.9 percent and girls from 69.1 percent to 73.3 percent again, exceeding the
target. In addition to the project GER data, there have been steady increases in GER nationwide
for children ages 2-5. In 2014/15, GER was 80.5 percent (2.9 percent increase over academic year
2013/14). In 2015/16, preliminary data show nationwide GER at 84.8 percent. In 2015/16, the
actual enrollment in the 17 project-supported fixed kindergartens was 2,957 (49.3 percent female).
This number exceeds the original capacity estimation of approximately 1,700. The demand for
kindergarten is extremely high, one project kindergarten reported that all of the parents of the 1,000
children ages 2-5 in the catchment area wanted to enroll their children in kindergarten. However,
the kindergarten could only enroll 380 children.




12
  At the time of project preparation there was a rapid increase in fertility rates. The rapid increase in the number of
new children being born was putting downward pressure on enrollment rates and new construction was needed just to
keep pace with the rapid increase in fertility rates. The targets were selected based on these realities.

                                                               13
45.     With the provision of the 100 new mobile ger kindergartens, the number of children
attending new mobile ger-kindergartens increased from 0 in 2009/10 to 3,781 in 2014/15 more
than double the target of 1,500. In addition, the average daily attendance rate of the new mobile
ger-kindergartens increased from 0 percent in 2012 to 99.8 percent exceeding the target of 90
percent. This data was gathered while administering the parent satisfaction survey. The survey also
showed that 64 percent of parents had not enrolled their children before the project provided the
mobile ger-kindergartens. Satisfaction of the parents with the mobile ger service was 91.2 percent
exceeding the target of 60 percent. The data to support this finding is based on the project 2014
parent satisfaction survey and is measured by the percentage of parents that rated the services good
or above.13

46.     Percentage of beneficiaries from disadvantaged communities exceeded the target of 50
percent. There were two categories included in this assessment: (i) 72.5 percent of the parents
sending their children to mobile ger-kindergartens were herders (unstable earnings) or
unemployed; and (ii) 71 percent of mobile ger-kindergarten sites were 100km+ from the aimag
center where the fixed kindergartens are located. Additional information shows that in 2014/15,
2,568 (48.7 percent female) children ages 2-5 that lived 100km+ from the aimag center attended
the project mobile ger-kindergartens.

47.     In addition, to measuring parent’s satisfaction with the mobile ger-kindergartens, the
survey conducted classroom observations which indicated that: (i) 98.7 percent of children were
able to recite numbers in order; (ii) 97.2 percent could draw and color; and (iii) 98.4 percent could
hold a spoon/pen/pencil and chopsticks. These are substantial achievements among targeted
children in the rural areas as a result of the project focus on in the early childhood subsector.

48.      The intermediate results indicators selected were: (i) increase state-owned kindergarten
facilities by 3.4 percent; (ii) increase mobile alternative teaching classes by 14.1 percent; (iii)
increase the number of children enrolled in kindergartens by 4,000; and (iv) direct project
beneficiaries (number) of which female (%). The results are as follows:

        The state owned kindergartens increased from the 2012 baseline of 722 kindergartens to
         777 in 2014/15 for a 7.6 percent increase thereby exceeding the target of 3.4 percent.
        Mobile alternative teaching classes decreased from a baseline of 711 to 658 instead of
         increasing to the target of 811. The number is decreasing because population numbers are
         decreasing in the rural areas as families migrate to UB and other urban areas and begin to
         enroll their children in fixed kindergartens. As a result, the overall total of mobile ger-
         kindergartens decreased, even though the project delivered the 100 mobile ger-
         kindergartens. If the state kindergarten stock had been constant, the target would have been
         met. The indicator was phrased in this way to align with the Ministry’s Statistical Yearbook.
         As indicated, the government is now building between 60-70 kindergartens a year in an
         attempt to meet the overall demand for fixed kindergarten enrollments.


13
   Parent satisfaction is calculated based on the percentage of parents that gave the ger-kindergarten services a score
of 3 or above (equal to good or above). The survey covered eight services: (i) toys; (ii) meals; (iii) exercise; (iv)
children’s desks and chairs; (v) teaching and learning kit; (vi) furniture; (vii) facilities; and (viii) sanitary conditions.
The five point rating scale was: (i) insufficient; (ii) sufficient; (iii) good; (iv) very good; and (v) excellent.

                                                            14
      The number of kindergarten children increased from the 2012 baseline of 142,065 to
       206,636 in 2014/15 exceeding the target of 161,181 by 45,455 children.
      The direct project beneficiaries were 6,738 of which 49.2 percent were female surpassing
       the original target of 3,200 and 47 percent female.

3.3 Efficiency

49.     The PAD did not undertake a traditional economic analysis for the project, and no internal
rate of return was estimated. The PAD provided an economic justification of the project
interventions by citing research on how the project’s investments could be expected to generate
significant differences in the quantity and quality of skills, the quality of employment and labor
incomes. It also argued that targeted investments in education can break the intergenerational
transmission of poverty and reduce inequality.

50.     This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) has prepared a cost-benefit analysis (CBA)
of the project’s interventions based on the actual quantity and costs of the project as implemented.
The expansion of ECE and the provision of learning materials for disadvantaged children are
amenable to this type of analysis and were appraised in a CBA detailed in Annex 3. The program’s
direct costs during the implementation period have been realized. Post-project direct costs were
estimated based on current levels. The CBA allows the ICR to calculate indirect costs and benefits
both with the program and without the program.

51.     The results of this economic analysis demonstrate that the financial outcomes from the
ECE expansion program and learning materials provision for disadvantaged children are
significant, with a combined net present value (NPV) of US$20.77 million and an internal rate of
return (IRR) of 15.28 percent. The ECE service expansion component has a NPV of US$14.79
million and an IRR of 15.49 percent. The NPV and IRR of learning material provision for
disadvantaged children are estimated at US$5.98 million and 12.26 percent, respectively. To assess
the validity of these results under different assumptions, a thorough sensitivity analysis was
conducted by changing several important assumptions. The results remained robust to changes in
virtually all of the critical variables.

52.     A financial analysis was included in the PAD in an attempt to estimate recurrent costs
generated as a result of this program. This was based on past public expenditure trends and future
projections, focusing primarily on the costs incurred as a result of this project for salaried of school
teachers’ and the provision of learning materials. Additional analysis of the country’s national
expenditures suggests that overall the financial sustainability of project-initiated primary activities
has been achieved. This is evident by the mainstreaming of most of the key interventions of the
project into MECS’s core activities.

53.     Annex 3 also discusses a number of non-financial and long-term development impacts of
the project. Although better educational attainment leads to increased private returns, there are a
number of socio-economic benefits that are not captured by private financial benefits computed or
the IRR and NPV calculations. Annex 3 discusses how exposure to ECE services has been
documented to have impacts on improving school outcomes such as lower repetition and dropout
rates, higher enrollment rates, better long-term cognitive development, and greater school

                                                  15
attainment. In addition, improved educational attainment through expansion of access to ECE and
the provision of learning materials for disadvantaged children could support the easing of socio-
economic inequality by addressing inequality in opportunities, fostering improved nutritional
outcomes and school readiness, and providing other benefits.

54.    Despite the implementation delays and the project extension, the economic analysis
strongly suggests that the project outputs have and will continue to generate long-term cost benefits.
The efficiency of the project is rated as substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

55.     The overall outcome rating of the project is moderately satisfactory. The relevance of the
project objectives, design and implementation was high. The PDO and design focused on the
government’s priorities to increase access to ECE. This was and continues to be relevant given the
high birth rates in Mongolia and the government’s policy to lay the groundwork for important
school readiness. Although there were challenges during implementation, the MECS and PIU,
working with the Bank team, made necessary adjustments to successfully complete the activities
and draw lessons for future interventions. Efficacy is rated satisfactory because the PDO was
achieved as measured by the achievement of the PDO indicators. Finally, the program was
implemented efficiently.

Table 1: Project Rating
 Original Project – 3/6/2012 – 2/28/ 2015 – 99.72 percent disbursement-net project funds1
 Project Relevance     Achievement of PDO (Efficacy)        Efficiency   Overall Rating
 High                  Moderately Satisfactory              Substantial  Moderately Satisfactory
 Project Restructuring– 3/01/2015 – 6/30/2015 – 0.28 percent disbursement-net project funds
 Project Relevance     Achievement of PDO (Efficacy)        Efficiency   Overall Rating
 High                  Satisfactory                         Substantial  Satisfactory
 Overall Project Ratings – 98.8 percent disbursement of grant as of 11/30/2015
 Project Relevance     Achievement of PDO (Efficacy)        Efficiency   Overall Rating
 High                  Moderately Satisfactory              Substantial  Moderately Satisfactory2
1
    The net amount for the total project is US$9.88 million.
2
    Overall rating = (4)(.9972) +(5)(.0280) = 4.128

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

56.     As indicated above, the project was focused on access to ECE in disadvantaged areas in
Mongolia. By project closing, the project supported fixed kindergartens in the eight UB
disadvantaged districts saw enrollments increase by approximately 4.8 percent in one year. All
eight districts reported that demand for ECE is higher than supply. The government will continue
to provide 60-70 kindergartens a year to accommodate the overwhelming demand. Enrollments in
the 100 mobile ger-kindergartens more than doubled the expected targets. Moreover,
approximately 72 percent of the parents that sent their children to the mobile ger-kindergartens
were herders that had unstable earnings or were unemployed and 71 percent were approximately

                                                               16
100km+ from any fixed kindergartens. The project’s support was instrumental in providing needed
access to ECE services for disadvantaged families.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Already discussed in the document.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

57.      The original project preparation identified the overall risk rating as moderate. This rating
was primarily based on risks associated with kindergarten construction. The mitigation measures
incorporated in the project, with the inclusion of a third party monitor, operations manual and
detailed procurement plans, were appropriate and ultimately responsible for ensuring completion
of the project procurement. In addition, the inclusion of a highly experience engineer/architect on
all Bank ISMs helped to ensure the quality of construction as well as helped to institute strong fire
safety measure for the wooden framed construction. Going forward, the risks identified during
preparation should remain moderate. This is partly due to the fact that government is incorporating
the Canadian-wood kindergarten construction into the Ministry’s public investment plan. In
addition, NEMA will continue to inspect schools and ensure that the: (i) insulation on school water
tanks remains in place so the tanks do not freeze during the winter; (ii) schools conduct fire drills
at least twice yearly; and (iii) school water tanks remain full and that the water is being recycled
to avoid stale water in the tanks. There is a possibility that the supply of mobile ger-kindergartens
will be reduced however, the risk is low because of the government’s commitment to providing
ECE service over the next five years. Moreover, it is expected that the new IDA project will
continue support for the rural and nomadic population.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

58.     The project preparation team ensured that the project design was closely aligned with the
ESMP2 for 2006-2015, GPE goals of meeting the 2015 MDGs, and the Bank’s 2009-2010 ISN.
The design was simple, the PDO was precise and key indicators were appropriate for measuring
progress toward achieving the PDO. The design took into consideration the recommendations from
peer reviewers and lessons learned from other Bank-supported projects in Mongolia. The
preparation team identified the appropriate risks and incorporated design features to mitigate them
and included the relevant technical specialists to develop the project. All-in-all, the quality at entry
for the ECE project was satisfactory.


                                                  17
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

59.     As previously mentioned, there were six Bank review and implementation support
missions which included a MTR. The project team was actively engaged in supporting the
government in its efforts to implement the project. Whenever implementation challenges arose,
the Bank team worked with government to find appropriate solutions that would not comprise the
integrity of the design. The supervision teams consistently reported on FM and procurement
progress during supervision missions and worked with the PIU team to build their capacity in these
areas. They also systematically documented project progress in aide-memoires, back-to-office
reports and ISRs, all of which kept Bank management informed of progress and provided the
foundation for the ICR analysis. Key to the project’s achievements was the consistent supervision
with a highly experienced engineer/architect that provided support provided to the PIU team on
kindergarten construction.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

60.     Based on the implementation analysis above, overall Bank performance is rated
satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

61.     At the time of preparation, the government was fully committed to the project. The MECS
agreed and worked with the Bank to design a simple, ECE access focused project which would be
relevant to the needs of Mongolia. The MECS also provided the project counterpart funds that
were used to construct the agreed eight kindergartens. However, the 15 month delay in the approval
of the kindergarten designs by the NEMA and Ministry of Construction, within the context of a
two year implementation period, created a challenge for implementation. In addition, the MECS
replaced most of the experienced PIU staff after the 2012 elections which left the PIU unstaffed
for three months. Although the replacement staff were very qualified, they had limited experience
in implementing Bank projects and therefore, required substantial support early in their new
positions. The government’s benchmark standard pricing for machinery also increased between
three to five times under the order of the Ministry of Construction which led to a repricing of
kindergarten construction and a reduction in the number kindergartens the project could construct.
As discussed above, the price increases were mostly related to exogenous factors however, the
project and implementation were impacted.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

62.     The PIU was responsible for managing all aspects of implementation. When faced with
implementation challenges, the PIU was able to work effectively with the Bank to resolve them as
indicated above. The capacity building activities were successful in that FM was constantly rated
satisfactory throughout the life of the project. The PIU ensured that an adequate project FM system
                                                18
was in place, which provided accurate and timely information on the utilization of project funds.
After the early procurement challenges with design approvals, the project’s procurement
performance was rated satisfactory due to fact that procurement files were in proper order and
post-reviews revealed that procurement guidelines were followed. The PIU ensured that parent
satisfaction survey was conducted, data was analyzed and a report was produced detailing the
findings. They provided good detailed project progress reports and continuously updated the data
for the results framework. The PIU worked with the CCU to ensure that all the recommendations
made related to fire safety of the kindergartens were completed. Based on these aspects, the
implementation agency performance is rated satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderate Satisfactory

63.  Based on the implementation analysis above, overall borrower performance is rated
moderately satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned

64.    Lesson 1. Project designs should be simple when they have short implementation periods.
The ECE project implementation period was shorter than the normal three year period for most
GPE-supported projects. The preparation team designed a project that was simple and fit into the
two year time constraints. Although the project design was simple and the approval process for the
new wood framed construction had begun prior to effectiveness, the 15 month delay in approving
the kindergarten designs was a key contributor to the implementation delays.

65.     Lesson 2. A strong project implementation team must remain in place throughout project
implementation. Key positions were replaced shortly after implementation due to changes in the
government which also contributed to project implementation delays. These delays along with the
short implementation period, contributed to the project implementation challenges.

66.     Lesson 3. Surveys included in project designs are valuable tools for assessing impact of
project interventions. The parent satisfaction survey was important for understanding the
significant role that mobile kindergartens play in preparing children ages 2-5 for primary school.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
Not applicable.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                               19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                    Actual/Latest
                                          Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
               Components                                             Estimate
                                            (US$ millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                                    (US$ millions)

Component 1: Increasing
Kindergarten Capacity in Urban                      9.31                    8.83                95.00
Areas
Component 2: Creating preschool
                                                    0.48                    0.41                85.00
classes in rural areas
Component 3: Grant Management
                                                    0.21                    0.64                304.00
and Monitoring and Evaluation
                 Total Baseline Cost               10.00                    9.88                98.80
Physical Contingencies                              0.00                    0.00                 0.00
Price Contingencies                                 0.00                    0.00                 0.00
                  Total Project Costs               0.00                    0.00
Project Preparation Costs                           0.00                    0.00                 0.00
                                                    0.00                    0.00                 0.00
           Total Financing Required                10.00                    9.881               98.80

(b) Financing
                                                                Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of                                    Percentage of
               Source of Funds                                  Estimate       Estimate
                                               Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                              (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Counterpart Funds                                                 2.85           2.682          94.00
EFA-FTI Education Program
                                                                   10.00             9.88             98.80
Development Fund
1
    The Government of Mongolia returned US$121,221.02 of unspent funds from the designated account.
2
    The tugrik was devalued.




                                                       20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

67.     Component 1: Increasing Kindergarten Capacity in Urban and Peri-urban Areas
(GPE--US$9,315,000 and Counterpart--US$2,849,000). This component contributed to
increasing pre-school enrollment by building new kindergarten facilities, providing furniture,
equipment, indoor and outdoor playgrounds and toys, and teaching materials to kindergartens.

68.    The indicators used to measure sub-component progress were: (i) increase state-owned
kindergarten facilities by 3.4 percent; and (ii) increase number of children enrolled in
kindergartens. During the project period, the state-owned kindergarten facilities increased from
722 to 755 or 7.6 percent exceeding the target of 3.4 percent and the children enrolled in
kindergartens increased from the 142,065 to 206,636 exceeding the target of 161,181 by 78 percent.

69.    Activity 1.1: Building new kindergarten facilities including supervision (GPE-
US$7,715,000 and Counterpart-US$2,849,000). The original activity under this sub-component
was construction of 37 new kindergartens (21 to be located in aimag centers and 16 in UB in
overcrowded urban and rural areas. During the November 2012 restructuring the number was
reduced to 25 (17 from GPE funds and 8 from government funds) in response to cost escalation of
raw materials. All 25 kindergartens were completed, occupancy certificates were issued and
handed over to the school principal. In addition, the 25 Canadian wood framed construction
kindergartens, included fully functioning fire sprinkler systems and smoke detectors as
recommended by third party technical engineer and the Bank’s team engineer.

70.     Activity 1.2: Supply of furniture, equipment, indoor and outdoor playground toys,
and teaching materials. (GPE-US$1,600,000 and Counterpart-US$0.00). This activity was to
complement activity 1.1 by supplying the needed furniture, equipment, toys and teaching materials
for the 25 project supported kindergartens. During the life of the project, all 25 kindergartens were
provided with all the need supplies to make them a fully functioning kindergarten which included
age appropriate furniture, kitchen equipment, electric appliance, carpet and bedding. In 2014,
because the competitive bidding process led to cost savings in the contracts, the MECS, with Bank
approval, increased the quantity of goods to cover an additional 35 public kindergartens (12 in UB
and 23 rural areas) that had not benefited from any project support.

71.     Activity 1.2 also supported the procurement of toys and books for pre-school children.
All 25 project schools were supplied with age appropriate toys and books based on the project
design. In addition, the project was able to provide 500 public kindergartens nationwide with toys
and books. This occurred because of the 2014/2012 depreciation of the local currency vis-à-vis the
US$ which resulted in an increase in project funds. The MECS and Bank agreed that the additional
project resources would be used for toys and books for kindergartens that: (i) had never been
supplied with toys and books which were identified using statistical data of pre-school education;
(ii) submitted official letters requesting the materials; and (iii) were recommended by the vice
minister, department directors and MECS specialists. The book titles were selected from the list
of 100 top preschool books that had been complied during the implementation of the “Improving
Primary Education Outcomes for the Most Vulnerable Children in Rural Mongolia” which was
jointly supported by Save the Children Japan and the World Bank.



                                                 21
72.     Component 2: Creating Alternative Preschool Classes in Rural Areas. (GPE-
US$475,000 and Counterpart-US$0.00). The intermediate indicator used to measure sub-
component progress was to increase mobile alternative teaching classes by 14.1 percent. During
the project period mobile alternative teaching classes decreased by 7.6 percent or from 711 to 658.
Mobile ger-kindergartens have a shelf life of approximately three years. The government is not
replacing the mobile ger-kindergartens because population numbers are decreasing in the rural
areas as families migrate to UB and other urban areas and begin to enroll their children in fixed
kindergartens. At the beginning of the project, 41.1 percent of the population lived in UB and by
project closing 43.4 percent lived in UB, a considerable and significant increase.

73.    Activity 2.1: Building New Kindergarten Facilities including Supervision (GPE-
US$460,500 and Counterpart-US$0.00). This activity was to provide 100 mobile ger-
kindergartens14 to rural areas with large populations of herders’ children and where preschool
enrollment rates were particularly low. Each mobile ger-kindergarten consisted of two gers15 ,
desks, chairs, a blackboard, carpet, toys, a stereo player, portable toilet and needed learning
materials. This activity built on the 2007-2009 GPE funded project that provided 171 mobile ger-
kindergartens. Ger-kindergartens were a UNICEF innovation and, in addition to GPE, have been
supported by Japan and the Asian Development Bank (ADB). During implementation, the project
procured and distributed 100 mobile ger-kindergartens.

74.     Activity 2.2: Develop and Print Visual Aids and Children’s Workbooks in
Accordance with the Alternative Pre-school Curriculum. (GPE- US$14,500 and
Counterpart-US$0.00). This activity was to develop, print and distribute visual aids and
children’s workbooks to mobile ger-kindergartens in accordance with the alternative preschool
curriculum that would serve as a primary instruction tool for the kindergartens. The project built
on the visual aids and workbooks that had been developed in 2012 with support from the ADB
“Early Childhood Education for Rural, Nomadic, and Migrant Children” project. The MECS
established a working group to assess the materials that were currently being used and to improve
them in accordance with the core or alternative curriculum. The working group studied 100 visual
aids from other countries to inform the process of revising the visual aids. Based on this: (i) 53.4
percent of the visual aids were newly developed, (ii) 4.6 percent were improved; and (iii) six new
annexes were added to the original visual aids. The workbooks were modified as follows: (i) 108
exercises were assessed; (ii) 16 annexes were added; (iii) 75 new exercises were developed; and
(iv) 19 exercises were revised. Overall, approximately 69 percent of the workbook content was
improved. In November 2013, the newly revised visual aids and workbooks were printed and
distributed to all 100 project supported mobile ger-kindergartens.




14
   The project centrally procured and distributed the gers to the relevant soums and baghs. The local education
department were responsible for their operation and maintenance. The ger-kindergartens are considered as satellite
kindergartens affiliated with fixed kindergartens. The provincial departments of education are asked to deliver services
to the herders. The mobile gers are only in operation during the summer months to reach out to the herders. After the
summer, the gers can be set up at the fixed kindergartens and used as extra classrooms.
15
   One ger is used for teaching and learning and the second ger is used for cooking and sleeping.


                                                          22
75.     Component 3: Grant Management and Monitoring and Evaluation. (GPE-
US$210,000 and Counterpart-US$0.0) This component was to support: (i) the PIU in executing
the project and (ii) parent satisfaction surveys after the opening of each fixed kindergarten. As
indicated, the project was restructured to conduct a parent satisfaction survey of the 100 mobile
ger kindergartens rather than the fixed kindergartens. The project did provide the agreed support
and resources for the PIU to conduct their project monitoring and evaluation duties.

76.     As mentioned previously, in January 2013 the PIU staffing was changed due to elections
and changes in the government. However, by April 2013 the new PIU was in place. The project
also conducted a parent satisfaction survey from a representative sample of parents in the 100
mobile ger kindergartens in 14 aimags. The survey questionnaire was encoded into SPSS and the
results from the survey showed that (i) 99.8 percent of children attended the new mobile ger
kindergartens for more than 5 days a week; (ii) 91.2 percent of parents rated the services of the
mobile ger kindergartens as good or above; (iii) 64 percent of parents reported that they sent their
children to the mobile ger kindergartens to prepare them for primary school, and 62.6 percent
reported that they had not enrolled their children in kindergarten before the project. Moreover,
classroom observations indicated that: (i) 98.7 percent were able to recite numbers in order; (ii)
97.2 percent could draw and color, and (iii) 98.4 percent could hold a spoon/pen/pencil and
chopsticks.




                                                23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis

77.     A standard economic analysis of the project involving a calculation of an economic rate of
return (ERR) and net present value (NPV) was not undertaken during appraisal. Instead, the
economic analysis in the PAD discussed education as a priority investment sector for Mongolia by
citing international evidence on high private returns to education in employment and wages,
pointing out existing inefficiencies in the system such as the prevalence of dropout and grade
repetition, and identifying disparities of education participation among children from
disadvantaged households.

78.     For the economic analysis of this ICR, two core activities—expansion of early childhood
education (ECE) and the provision of learning materials for disadvantaged children—have been
selected for a cost-benefit analysis (CBA) using information on the actual quantity and costs of
the Project as implemented. For this analysis, the project’s direct costs during implementation have
been realized, and post-project direct costs are estimated based on current levels.

79.      Evaluation Approach. This cost-benefit analysis (CBA) entails undertaking a projection
of education sector indicators (e.g., enrollment, repetition rate, dropout rates, etc.), public
expenditure, direct costs to families, opportunity costs of schooling to children, and benefits from
education without the program and with the program. The difference in cost and benefits between
the with the program scenario and the without the program scenario is attributed to the program.
More specifically, current (2012-2015) and projected (2016-2019) single-age population data is
used to determine the number of age-appropriate children for enrollment in ECE, primary, and
secondary schools. Enrollment, repetition and dropout rates at each level are projected based on
current status and reasonable growth rates based on past trends, and projected population size.
Based on these projections and information on current families’ and public expenditure per student
in primary and secondary school, as well as the estimated potential income of children dropping
out from school, the cost to the public and to families of sending children to schools and
opportunity cost (to students) of attending different levels of schooling were estimated. Benefits,
in the form of private returns to education, are projected based on enrollment and completion of
different levels of schooling and returns to education from the Mincer earnings regression in
Mongolia. Extensive effort has been made to consider all costs and benefits from the program by
accounting not only for direct benefits and costs, but also indirect ones. The baseline result, which
is based on realistic assumptions, is presented, and then sensitivity of the results to changes in the
critical assumptions is thoroughly tested.

Expansion of Early Childhood Education

80.   Component one of the project financed the construction of 25 fixed kindergartens, 17 of
which were financed by the project.

81.    Program Cost. The present value (in 2015 US$) of direct program fixed costs, which
include construction, equipment and training costs, during the project period was approximately
US$7.31 million. Operating costs, for supplies and teachers salary, during this period are estimated
to be US$0.83 million. However, the kindergartens are expected to last at least 25 years and up to
                                                 24
40 years, and operation and re-equipping costs post-project are estimated at US$8.63 million. In
addition to these direct costs, there are indirect costs to the public and to families and opportunity
costs to the children as more children are (and would be) enrolling in primary schools and
progressing into lower secondary schools. These indirect costs are estimated at US$42.10 million,
during 2015-2040 period.

82.     Financial Benefits. The long-term impacts of ECE exposure on schooling and other socio-
economic outcomes are neither obvious nor well documented in Mongolia where there are limited
studies on long-term impacts of ECE on student performance in primary and secondary schools as
well as other long-term life outcomes. There is, however, recent evidence from Mongolia (Rao et
al., 2015) on the impact of ECE on cognitive outcomes among children who passed through the
kind of ECE program being assessed in this CBA. Rao et al. (2015) conducted a careful evaluation
of the impacts of exposure to this ECE program on children’s performance on the East Asia Pacific
Early Childhood Development Scale Assessment (EAP-ECDS), and documented that exposure to
preschool has a very high impact relative to the control group of children who had no exposure to
ECE. This CBA exploits the performance gap in the EAP-ECDS to determine the potential
differences in grade repetition rates among children in primary and secondary school with variation
in exposure to ECE programs. This analysis also makes the very conservative assumption of
allowing the impact of ECE exposure to disappear as children progress from grade 1 to grade 2,
from grade 2 to grade 3 and so on. Accordingly, the projection of the gap in school completion, by
grade, among these groups of children provided a basis for calculating private returns to education
over 25 years after they have completed their respective grades of education, as a result of exposure
to early childhood programs.

83.     The direct financial benefits from ECE expansion components of the project is computed
by estimating the private returns to education for children who have progressed into higher grades
in primary and lower secondary school due the their exposure to ECE services. Computing this
benefit requires projecting the net-flow ratio (in primary and secondary schools) among children
exposed to formal preschool, community-based ECE and home-based ECE, relative to those with
no exposure to ECE services, and attributing additional education attainment to the ECE expansion
component of the program.

84.     The present value of this direct private return to education is estimated at US$10.01 million.
In addition to this direct benefit, the expansion of access to ECE services would reduce public and
family expenditure on education and opportunity costs of education to children by reducing grade
repetition, particularly in the early grades of primary school. The present value of this indirect
benefit is estimated at US$4.79 million. The net present value (NPV) of the ECE fixed
kindergarten expansion component is estimated at US$14.79 million, and its IRR is 15.49 percent.

85.      Sensitivity Analysis. The baseline financial outcomes discussed above are based on
current information on relevant variables and adopting realistic assumptions about future trends.
To check the robustness of these results, the ICR conducted a meticulous sensitivity analysis on
how the estimated financial outcomes might fluctuate due to a change in critical assumptions. The
result from this sensitivity analysis is presented is Table 1. Financial outcomes from the program
are robust to changes in the critical assumptions: the NPV remained high, ranging from 2008
US$10.71 to US$22.88 million; the IRR ranges from 14.77 to 18.31 percent.


                                                 25
Table A3.1: Sensitivity Analysis of Financial Outcomes of ECE Expansion
                                                                                      New result                 Base result        Change**
                                                                   Baseline
              Changing Scenarios                      New value     value         IRR         NPV*         IRR          NPV      IRR      NPV
Family expenditure per student per year for primary   US$35 &      US$50 &
and secondary school, respectively                     US$130      US$140
                                                                                 16.90%       17.53      15.48%         14.79   1.41%     2.74
Family expenditure per student per year for primary   US$55 &      US$50 &
and secondary school, respectively                    US$150       US$140        15.03%       13.84      15.48%         14.79   -0.45%   (0.95)

Income of a person with no education                   US$189       US$164       18.31%       22.88      15.48%         14.79   2.83%     8.09

Income of a person with no education                   US$198       US$164       14.52%       12.09      15.48%         14.79   -0.96%   (2.70)


Returns to Primary and secondary education,
respectively                                          8% & 8%      7% & 7%       16.23%       16.92      15.48%         14.79   0.74%     2.13

Returns to Primary and secondary education,
respectively                                          6% & 6%      7% & 7%       14.77%       12.78      15.48%         14.79   -0.71%    (2.01)

Discount rate                                           11%          10%         15.48%       10.71      15.48%         14.79   0.00%     (4.08)

Discount rate                                            9%          10%         15.48%       19.82      15.48%         14.79   0.00%     5.03

Income forgone by a student in primary and            US$30 &      US$39 &
secondary school per year, respectively                US$40        US$45        16.31%       16.43      15.48%         14.79   0.83%     1.64

Impact of ECE on secondary school outcome           Excluded        Included       15.43%       14.07      15.48%       14.79   -0.05%    (0.72)
* NPV is calculated in terms of 2008 US$ million
**Change is baseline value of IRR and NPV minus their respective new values with the changing assumptions.




                                                                           26
The Provision of Learning Materials for Disadvantaged Children

86.      Program Cost. The costs associated with this component are broadly classified into direct
and indirect costs. The direct cost includes expenditures from the project budget to make learning
materials available in classroom libraries, and include expenses on developing children books,
learning material purchase and shelves. The direct cost is calculated based on actual unit costs,
with proper inflation adjustment. During the project’s life (2012-2015), the present value of the
total direct cost is estimated at US$1.63 million.

87.     The indirect costs include those incurred (by the public, families and the children) due to
that fact that more students would be attending higher grades in primary school due to the program.
Estimation of this indirect cost is done based on current per children government spending on
education, families expense and opportunity cost of attending school for student. These costs are
estimated to be US$1.11 million during the 2015-2022 period.

88.     Financial Benefits. Among the many socio-economic benefits of higher years of education
that is amenable for quantification and hence can easily be assigned a financial value is private
return from education. The benefit considered from the program considered in this CBA is this
private return for students as a result of extra-years of education associated with accessing learning
materials. The present value of the private return from higher educational attainment, resulting
from access to high quality learning materials, is estimated at US$5.98 million. NPV and EIRR of
the learning material provision scheme are US$0.95 million and 12.26 percent, respectively (see
Table 1).

  Table 1: Financial Outcomes from Classroom Libraries: Cost, Benefits, EIRR and NPV
  Internal Rate Return and Net Present Value
         IRI                                                                                 12.26%
         NPV (US$ million)                                                                    0.95
  PV of cost (US$ million)                                                                    5.04
  Direct cost (2014-2017)                                                                     3.92
         Library Equipment                                                                    1.82
         Book purchase                                                                        1.35
         Book development                                                                     0.39
         Overhead cost                                                                        0.36
  Indirect cost to the public, students & their families (2014-2022)                          1.11
         Public expenditure on primary                                                        0.64
         Opportunity cost to students in primary                                              0.17
         Family expenditure on primary                                                        0.30
  PV of benefits (US$ million)                                                                5.98
         Private returns                                                                      5.98

89.     Sensitivity analysis. The estimated baseline financial returns are based on actual data on
school outcomes and reasonable assumptions about the impact of the program, indirect costs, and
benefits of the program. To assess the robustness of the results to changes in significant
assumptions, a careful sensitivity analysis has been conducted. Table 2 presents the result of the

                                                      27
sensitivity analysis, which shows the result is robust to almost all of the changes in assumptions.
Except in case of the higher discount rate and lower returns to education, the NPV remained
positive with IRR above 10 percent.




                                                28
Table 2: Sensitivity Analysis of Financial outcomes from Learning Materials
                                                                                                         New result       Base result       Change
                     Changing Scenarios                                 New value       Base value    IRR       NPV     IRR NPV         IRR     NPV

Family expenditure per student in primary school, US$ per year                    55            45    12.16%   0.91     12.26%   0.95   (0.00)   (0.04)

Family expenditure per student in primary school, US$ per year                    35            45    12.37%   0.98     12.26%   0.95   0.00     0.04

Income of a person with no education, US$ per year                              189            164    12.06%   0.87     12.26%   0.95   (0.00)   (0.08)

Income of a person with no education, US$ per year                              139            164    12.58%   1.06     12.26%   0.95   0.00     0.11

Annual growth of income for a person with no education, %                      2.0%          1.5%     12.89%   1.25     12.26%   0.95   0.01     0.30

Annual growth of income for a person with no education, %                      1.0%          1.5%     11.64%   0.66     12.26%   0.95   (0.01)   (0.28)

Returns to Primary education, %                                                8.2%          7.2%     12.94%   1.24     12.26%   0.95   0.01     0.29

Returns to Primary education, %                                                6.2%          7.2%     11.62%   0.67     12.26%   0.95   (0.01)   (0.27)

Discount rate, %                                                               11%            10%     12.26%   0.49     12.26%   0.95   -        (0.46)

Discount rate, %                                                                 9%           10%     12.26%   1.47     12.26%   0.95   -        0.53
Government expenditure on primary school per student,
US$ per year                                                                    189            169    12.06%   0.87     12.26%   0.95   (0.00)   (0.08)
Government expenditure on primary school per student,
US$ per year                                                                    149            169    12.47%   1.02     12.26%   0.95   0.00     0.08

Income forgone by a student in primary school, US$ per year                       90            80    12.16%   0.91     12.26%   0.95   (0.00)   (0.04)

Income forgone by a student in primary school, US$ per year                       70            80    12.37%   0.98     12.26%   0.95   0.00     0.04

Decrease in primary school grade repetition rate, %                           19.3%         17.5%     13.35%   1.45     12.26%   0.95   0.01     0.50

Decrease in primary school grade repetition rate, %                           15.8%         17.5%     11.17%   0.47     12.26%   0.95   (0.01)   (0.47)
                                                                   1.1, 2.2,3.2, 4.2,   Base value
"Pessimistic Scenario": combination of Scenario No.:             5.1, 6.1, 7.1 & 8.2        for all   7.68%    (1.19)   12.26%   0.95   (0.05)   (2.13)
                                                                  1.2, 2.1, 3.1, 4.1,   Base value
"Optimistic Scenario" : combination of Scenario No.:             5.2, 6.2, 7.2 & 8.1        for all   17.61%   4.20     12.26%   0.95   0.05     3.25




                                                                        29
Non-financial Benefits and Long-Term Development Impact

90.     Although better educational attainment leads to increased private returns, there are a
number of socio-economic benefits that are not captured by private financial benefits presented in
the form of the IRR and NPV from these two activities. To address such limitations, this Annex
presents some non-financial benefits that could have been generated as a result of the program
implementation. Exposure to ECE services has been documented to have impacts on improving
school outcomes such as lower repetition and dropout rates, higher enrollment rates, better
cognitive development, and higher school attainment. In addition, improved educational
attainment through the expansion of access to ECE and the provision of learning materials could
result in a number of non-quantified socio-economic benefits such as easing socio-economic
inequality by addressing inequality in opportunities, improved nutritional outcomes, school
readiness, and other benefits.

91.     In addition, ECE and the provision of learning materials for disadvantaged children are
likely to have long-term development impacts such as addressing inequality by offsetting socio-
economic disadvantages, preparing children for a brighter future, and reducing the opportunity
costs of attending primary and secondary school for children in families from lower socio-
economic strata. ECE lays the foundation for a life of expanded opportunities, and it serves as
spring board for success in primary school and reduces language-based disadvantages. UNESCO
(2010) documents that being born into the poorest 20 percent of households in Mongolia
significantly increases the incidence of ‘education poverty’. Such a gap in education outcomes is
the result of a combination of factors like poverty, geographic isolation and cultural discrimination,
particularly against women and minorities (ibid). In addition, despite the elimination of fees and
charges, the most commonly cited reason for not attending school is high cost. Higher expenses
on education supplies and the opportunity cost of attending school are likely to reduce school
attendance among disadvantaged children.

Financial Analysis

92.    The cost design of the project was based on a financial analysis conducted as part of due
diligence during appraisal. The analysis identified two major recurrent expenditures generated by
the project: (a) additional teacher and staff salaries at newly constructed classrooms to
accommodate an expansion in student enrollment; and (b) incremental operating costs and
maintenance from additional classrooms. A sustainability analysis of these total incremental costs
was conducted to assess the government’s ability to absorb these costs in the budget once program
funding came to an end. While the estimates indicated that the annual increments appeared
affordable within the current Medium Term Expenditure Framework, the PAD noted that the Bank
and development partners would support MECS to engage in close dialogue with the Ministry of
Finance to ensure that sufficient resources would be made available to cover longer term recurrent
cost implications of the implementation of the project.

93.    Recent Trends in the Education Budget. The PAD described increasing government
spending in education as a share of GDP, as well as the increasing share of the education budget
as a share of total government spending. The PAD estimated that education budget trend was
generally upward and would be maintained at the 2006 level.

                                                 30
94.    The PAD noted that “the low population density of rural Mongolia explains the high costs
of education provision on a per-pupil basis as well as the need for public investment in rural
education.” This trend continues. The cost of education in Mongolia is still high due to the sparse
population and wide geographical spread. The government has spent more than 20 percent of its
budget and over 6 percent of its GDP on education since 2006.

95.    The PAD also provided trends and projections of education finance and enrollment, which
predicted a steady increase in both. The trend of public spending per child from 2006 to 2014
shows consistent increases, even taking into account the rising enrollment and the fluctuation of
the exchange rates. In particular, during the recession of 2008 and 2009, there was no budget cut
on education. On the contrary, the government provided free textbooks to children in lower grades
to ensure that they would not drop out due to financial reasons.

96.    The PAD noted an increasing trend of public education spending since the mid-1990s.
Since 1998, per student financing has been in place in an attempt to ensure an equitable allocation
of resources across all schools. The MECS receives 23 percent of the recurrent budget, a major
increase from about 17.5 percent in 2007, and is by far the largest ministry. By a law established
in 2002, education is to receive at least 20 percent of the budget. The wage bill accounts for about
69 percent of MECS recurrent expenditures and the Ministry’s share of the investment budget has
ranged between 5 percent and 10 percent in recent years.




                                                31
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
            Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Harold H. Alderman          Consultant                            GSPDR Education
Tungalag Chuluun            Operations Officer                    GSPDR Operations
                                                                        Financial
Badamchimeg Dondog          Financial Management Analyst          GGODR
                                                                        Management
Feng Ji                     Senior Environmental Specialist       GENDR Safeguards
Prateek Tandon              Senior Economist                      GEDDR Education Specialist
Sabrina Gail Terry          Program Assistant                     GHNDR Administrative
Gerelgua Tserendagva        Procurement Specialist                GGODR Procurement
Kin Bing Wu                 Lead Education Specialist             EASHE Team Leader
Jun Zeng                    Senior Social Development Spec        GSURR Safeguards
Supervision/ICR
Prateek Tandon              Senior Economist                      GEDDR     Team Leader
Rajiv Aggawal               Consultant                            GEDDR     Architect
Rabia Ali                   Economist                             GEDDR     Education Specialist
Dulguun Byambatsoo          Consultant                            GGODR     Operations
Tungalag Chuluun            Operations Officer                    GEDDR     Operations
Anna Coronado               Program Assistant                     GEDDR     Administration
Batzul Dashdorj             Consultant                            GGODR     Operations
                                                                            Financial
Badamchimeg Dondog          Financial Management Analyst          GGODR
                                                                            Management
                                                                            Financial
Ulziimaa Erdene             Consultant                            EACMF
                                                                            Management
Pagma Genden                Consultant                            GHNDR     Operations
Jianjun Guo                 Senior Procurement Specialist         GGODR     Procurement
Takiko Igarashi             Jr. Professional Officer              GEDDR     Operations
Atsuko Muroga               Consultant                            GEDDR     Education
Evelyn Villatoro            Senior Procurement Specialist         OPSOR     Procurement
Sandra Beemer               Consultant                            GEDDR     ICR Author

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                              US$ Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                            Total:               50.06                       300.97
Supervision/ICR
                            Total:               85.74                       374.87




                                             32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                      33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                        34
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

97.    The Global Partnership for Education Early Childhood Education Project between the
Ministry of Education, Culture and Science (MECS) and the World Bank was signed on March 6,
2012. The project’s overall implementation was coordinated by MECS with the support from the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) comprised of the Project Deputy Director, Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist, Financial Specialist, Procurement Specialist and Construction Consultant.
The Grant amount for this project is US$10.0 million targeting 14 aimags and 100 isolated soums
and 8 districts with high population density.

98.     The objectives of this project were to help the government cope with access to preschool
education with the surge in fertility rates; provide access to early childhood education (ECE) for
children in disadvantaged communities; and reach and educate children in remote and poverty
stricken areas to ensure school readiness. The project also supports construction of new
kindergarten facilities in districts with high population density; and provision of mobile ger-
kindergartens in rural areas for herder family children in isolated soums

99.    The expected key performance indicators were to: (i) increase GER of children ages 3-5 in
the urban districts in UB where new kindergartens were built; (ii) increase state-owned
kindergarten facilities by 3.4 percent; (iii) increase mobile alternative teaching classes by 14.1
percent; (iv) increase the percentage of beneficiaries from disadvantaged communities; and (v)
conduct parental satisfaction survey on the mobile ger-kindergaten services.

Component 1: Increasing Kindergarten Capacity in Urban Areas by Building New
Kindergarten Facilities and Supplying with Furniture, Equipment and Toys.

100. The project had originally planned to build a total of 37 kindergartens, each with a capacity
of 100 children in 21 aimag centers and in 16 districts of Ulaanbaatar. In 2012, the increase in
price of gasoline, construction raw materials, and transportation cost resulted in the reduction of
37 kindergartens to 27 (17 from GPE funds and 8 from government funds).

101. The 17 kindergartens supported by GPE funds were completed and supervision was handed
over to the principals of the schools. As of August 2015, the total enrollment in 15 khoroos in 8
districts in Ulaanbaatar was 2,813 children ranging from 33-55 students per classroom in some
districts.

102. Preparation Work for Building New Kindergarten Facilities. The Construction Client
Unit (CCU) of MECS, in collaboration with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) supervised the
progress of construction work. CCU had obtained permission from Ministry of Road,
Transportation, Construction and Urban Development (MRTCUD) in December 2012 to build a
two story Canadian wood frame kindergartens. According to the World Bank, a third party
technical engineer tested the fire sprinkler system of all the 17 Canadian wood framed
kindergartens. Fire safety was approved by National Emergency Management Agency in January
2013.




                                                35
103. In order to provide proper fire safety, additional work was done by contactors to ensure a
fully functioning fire sprinkler system and smoke detectors by: (i) moving sprinkler system pipes
that were above the floor-to-ceiling down to avoid freezing during the winter; (ii) ensuring that
they systems had a separate electrical circuit; (iii) installing fire extinguishers; (iv) ensuring waster
is circulated from storage tanks to avoid being stagnant, (v) install emergency lights in fire exits
with drawing of fire exit schemes; (vi) training school principals and staff on how to run and
maintain the fire system; and (vii) marking fire zones on the fire panels.

104.     The project stakeholders also identified the Canadian wood framed technology inclusive
to the project description. Though this technology was best practice based from other projects
previously implemented in Mongolia, the World Bank recommended to develop new technical
specifics for each kindergarten due to the local differences in design of fire safety. Six engineering
consulting firms were selected to do the design of the 17 wood framed kindergartens. One
consulting firm was responsible for the design of 10 kindergartens, two had designed two
kindergartens each and the remaining three were designed one kindergarten each. MES funded
their services through the Government budget.

105. Additional construction work had to be done, the contractors submitted a letter to MECS
requesting additional funds for: (i) using concrete blocks as foundation for new constructions; and
(ii) changing the trusses in the building construction to reduce movement. Engineers and MECS
approved the additional funding given that the required changes were instructed by the CCU and
PIU engineers in preparation for any unforeseen conditions. The Bank has given a no-objection on
April 28, 2015 to proceed.

Lessons Learned
106. With the support from the World Bank GPE-ECE project, the construction of 17 Canadian
wood framed kindergartens in high population density districts was implemented successfully.
Coordination with MECS, CCU, construction contractors and state organizations was also
excellent.

107. There were however some common issues in the selection of construction companies, it
was observed that the contracted kindergarten construction companies did not have their own
engineer and technical staff, machinery and equipment, and financial capacity for construction
work, all of which were required in the selection. Also, permissions were not obtained to begin
construction, drawings were not approved and not done by experts, and lands were not free for
construction. These issues caused delays in construction.

Component 2: Creating Alternative Pre-school Classes in Rural Areas by Supplying Mobile
ger-kindergartens with Furniture, Equipment and Learning Materials

108. Enrollment of Herder Family’s Children in Preschool Education by Supplying 100
Mobile ger-kindergartens. The national competitive bidding for supplying mobile ger-
kindergartens with furniture, equipment, and learning materials to 100 remote soums was
announced in 2013. Once contracts were awarded, distribution of mobile ger-kindergartens was
held between July and November through aimag Education departments. Each mobile ger-


                                                   36
kindergarten consisted of two gers, desks, chairs, carpet, toys, refrigerator, solar generator kitchen
equipment, and other learning materials.

109. Each year, over 3,000 children of herder families benefit from mobile ger-kindergartens.
ECE access was provided, and GER increased in preschool education.

110. Develop and Print of Visual Aids and Children’s Workbooks in Accordance with the
Alternative Pre-school Curriculum. A visual aid developed by MECS and a workbook for
children developed by "Early Childhood Education for Rural, Nomadic, and Migrant Children", a
project funded by the JFPR/ADB in 2012, needed modification according to the alternative
preschool curriculum.

111. A working group established by MECS, led by relevant ministry specialists, was formed
to assess current preschool education learning materials and to study the possibility of using in
core or alternative curriculum to improve visual aid and workbook for children. Kindergartens
teachers and ECD specialist had an open discussion on ways to improve these materials – looking
for good practices from foreign countries. The discussion outcomes were:

      Visual aids improved by studying and learning from 100 visual aids from other countries -
       53.4 percent has been newly developed and 4.9 percent improved and 6 annexes has been
       added.
      Workbooks improved by 69 percent - 108 exercises has been assessed, 16 annexes has been
       added, 75 exercises has been developed, and 19 exercises has been revised.
      Both workbook and visual aids were decorated and printed in high quality materials and
       distribution to 100 mobile ger-kindergartens was completed in November 2013.

Component 3. Grant Management and Monitoring & Evaluation

112. Monitoring & Evaluation on Mobile ger-kindergarten Activities. The GPE-ECE
project conducted field trips from February to April 2015 to monitor and evaluate activities, quality
and usage of furniture, equipment, toys and learning materials of 100 mobile ger-kindergartens.
The results of these evaluations, written in collaboration with Ministry officials, were used to
produce Project Completion Reports for the aimags and soums.

113. Parental Satisfaction Survey. A Parental Satisfaction Survey was performed to collect
feedback from parents of children attending the 25 mobile ger-kindergartens located in Bayan-
Ulgii, Bulgan, Umnugobi, Khentiiaimags and Bayanzurkh, Songinokhairkhan districts of
Ulaanbaatar. The sampling, survey design, and reporting methodologies were recognized and
approved by World Bank and Ministry of Education and Science.

114. The main questionnaire of the survey seeks to capture the effects of the alternative pre-
school program delivery and in particular, it’s impact on the children. The results from the survey
was used to monitor and study the effectiveness of mobile ger-kindergartens in children especially
the ones coming from disadvantaged communities, the survey focused on physical well-being and
motor development; social and emotional development; approach to learning/language
development; and cognitive development.

                                                 37
115. The survey performed was a pilot of the Parental satisfaction survey data collection which
was conducted in two phases – fall 2013 and spring 2014. Beginning of October 2013, parents of
children in 6 mobile ger-kindergartens located in Bayanzurkh and Songinokhairkhan districts of
UB were selected to participate in the survey. And in March and April 2014, the rest of 19 mobile
ger-kindergartens located in isolated rural areas of Bayan-Ulgii, Bulgan, Umnugobi and
Khentiiaimag went through the data collection. In total, 517 parents represented the results of the
data collected. Mobile ger-kindergarten classroom teacher facilitated the questionnaire.

116. The results of the parental satisfaction survey on the mobile ger-kindergarten services was
relatively high and positive, especially on meals provided, children’s furniture, teaching and
learning kits and the overall kindergarten facilities (see more detailed key findings from the Survey
finding report).

117. Parental Satisfaction Survey for 100 Mobile ger-kindergartens. After completion of
the pilot survey, the World bank and PIU decided to conduct parental satisfaction survey to 100
mobile ger-kindergartens under GPE-ECE Project representing approximately 2000 parents in 14
aimags. Once completed, the survey data covering the period of October 2104 to February 2015
was submitted to SPSS program for evaluation. In March 2015, a report on the survey findings
was then submitted by SPSS to the World Bank and MECS both in English and Mongolian
language respectively.

118.   Key findings of the survey:

      Percentage of average daily attendance in the new mobile ger-kindergartens: 99.8 percent
       attended more than five days a week.
      Percentage of Parental satisfaction with the ECE services in the new mobile ger-
       kindergartens: 91.2 percent of the survey rated “good” or above average to all of the service
       items provided at the mobile ger-kindergartens.
      Percentage of beneficiaries from disadvantaged communities: By employment status, 64.5
       percent of parents are herders (unstable earnings) and 8.0 percent are unemployed. By
       household type, 8 percent from female-headed households. By accessibility, 71 percent of
       the project sites are located more than 100km from the aimag centers (where fix
       kindergartens are located).

119. Furthermore, 64 percent of the parents reported that their children were not enrolled in
kindergarten before the project. In conclusion, all target beneficiaries were reached under the
component of creating alternative preschool classes in rural areas.

More Activities Implemented by Currency Depreciation Resulting in Project Savings

120. Supply Toys for 500 Public Kindergartens. The recent depreciation of the local currency
resulted in project saving and the project’s ability to support more activities to help improve the
quality of ECE in Mongolia. The Ministry proposed to use US$970,000 of project savings on
innovative toys. 80 percent of the state owned kindergartens toys were already worn-out, and 30


                                                 38
percent of the kindergartens have insufficient toys. The Ministry decided to spend some of the
project savings for procuring toys for 500 public kindergartens.

121. The procurement of toys for 500 public kindergartens went through an international
competitive bidding, contracts were awarded to the selected companies. During the time the
contracts were awarded, MECS decided to increase the amount of each contract by 30 percent of
the original price. Suppliers successfully distributed high quality toys in a timely manner to the
500 public kindergartens through aimag Education department at the end of July, 2015.

122. Supply Books for 500 Public Kindergartens. In addition to toys, MECS proposed to use
US$160,000 of the remaining funds on books for school readiness. There were 100 top books
listed for preschool education, 34 of those books were selected by a working group comprised of
professional experts and MECS specialists under the framework for "Improving Primary
Education Outcomes for the Most Vulnerable Children in Rural Mongolia" – a project funded by
the Save the Children Japan and World Bank.

123. Contracts were made to 6 companies and books were distributed to 500 public
kindergartens.

124. Consultant Services. In addition to toys and books, MECS proposed to use US$253,066
on consultancy services to evaluate methodology for child development and achievement, teaching
materials, preschool teaching environment standard, mapping of primary and secondary school
locations and organizations, and preschool, primary and secondary school teachers ‘workload,
need and retaining period. The consultancy services will also provide MECS an evaluation of core
curriculums for preschool education, and implementation of preschool education reform.

Policy Recommendations

125. Despite the noticeable results in improvement of quality, quantity, and enhancement of the
alternative ECE during the last four years, there remains a need for mobile ger-kindergartens for
the following reasons: rural nomadic herders comprise 40 percent of total households nationwide;
no increase nor substantial decrease of poverty rate; prominent migration continues from rural
areas to populated areas; increase in birth rate means rising number of pre-school children; and
increase in the demand for ECE.

126. Findings from the parental satisfaction survey resulted in the following policy
recommendations:

Budget

      Workshop and seminars on skills and capacity building for heads of kindergartens, with
       recommendation from ECE managers, is needed to provide the proper support to operate
       the mobile ger-kindergartens. Skills such as planning permanent and alternating costs for
       the mobile ger-kindergartens and performance analysis need to be upgraded.



                                               39
      According to the new Law on Budget, local authorities now control the budget. Local
       managers should seek funding and investment support for ECE from the local development
       fund.
      Results on the parental survey results showed that kindergartens are needed in local areas.
       Annual operating cost of these kindergartens should be included in the local budget
       allocation plans.

Equal Supply of Equipment in Mobile ger-kindergarten in All aimags

      Mobile ger-kindergartens under the project are equipped with furniture, carpets, toys,
       learning materials, workbooks, household items, solar energy generators and other items
       to meet the children’s developmental and safety needs. It is required to provide similar
       equipment to other aimags. The budget allocation and lists of items to be supplied should
       be standard for all mobile ger-kindergarten investments to create a positive environment
       among all alternative educational programs.
      Similarly, children’s workbooks and visual aids should be re-used and re-printed for
       alternative ECEs in other local areas. These items should be distributed to libraries of
       teacher training schools for students use.

Summary

127. Mobile ger-kindergartens can operate in the summer for 2-3 months. However, there are
social issues on alternative education program teachers that need to be resolved. Bonuses and/or
remuneration, in addition to their salary should be offered in order to compensate with the difficult
work conditions. Also, additional funds should be provided for transportation cost, which currently
is insufficient. A teacher, an assistant teacher and a cook; a guard/fire keeper is necessary to run
an effective and efficient mobile ger-kindergartens in the future.

128. The children’s workbook and visual aids developed under the project can be effectively
used by all kindergarten teachers and parents as guide for alternative educational programs.




                                                 40
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                         41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aides-memoire and Implementation Status Reports 2012 – 2015

Implementation Completion Report, Borrower Portion, Mongolia Global Partnership for
Education Early Childhood Education Project, 2015.

Interim Strategy Note 2009-2010, Mongolia, World Bank, Washington, D.C., 2009.

Parental Satisfaction Survey, Mongolia Global Partnership for Education Early Childhood
Education Project, 2015.

Project Appraisal Document, Mongolia Global Partnership for Education Early Childhood
Education Project, World Bank, 2012

Project Paper for a Proposed Restructuring, Mongolia Global Partnership for Education Early
Childhood Education Project, World Bank, 2013.

“On the Road to Education for All: Progress and Challenges, Education for All Global
Monitoring Report.” UNESCO, Paris, France. 2010

Validation, Finalization and Adoption of the East Asia-Pacific Early Child Development Scales
(EAP-ECDS) - Rao, Nirmala, Jin Sun, Marie Ng, Yvonne Becher, Diana Lee, Patrick Ip, John,
Bacon-Shone - UNICEF, New York, New York. 2015

World Bank Country Partnership Strategy, Mongolia, 2013-2017




                                              42
MAP




      43
