Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3995 LSO         
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
Water Sector Improvement Project 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  December 7, 2004   
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3995-LSO         
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 2004, between THE KINGDOM OF 
LESOTHO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated April 15, 2004, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower’s water sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Program through a series of credits over a 
period of approximately 8 years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of 
the Program; 
(C) 
Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by Water and Sewerage 
Authority (WASA) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to WASA part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and 
WASA (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
(a) 
“COW” means the Commissioner of Water established within MNR 
(hereinafter defined) to coordinate water sector policies and activities; 
(b) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan adopted by the 
Borrower and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in Section 
3.04 of the Project Agreement; 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Lowlands areas” means the geographic area comprised within the basin 
of the Mohokare River; 
(e) 
“MNR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources; 
(f) 
“MWTP” means the Madalika Water Treatment Plant referred to in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(g) 
“PPSU” means the Policy, Planning and Strategy Unit established within 
MNR; 
(h) 
“Performance Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and WASA pursuant to Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Performance Agreement; 
(i) 
“Performance Audit” means the annual technical and financial 
management audit referred to in Section 6.2 of the Performance Agreement and in  
Section 3.08 of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(j) 
“PFLAC” means the Policy Framework for Land Acquisition and 
Compensation adopted by WASA and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and in Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement;  
(k) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
April 30, 2004 covering the initial 18 months-period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 months-period (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(l) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
WASA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(n) 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement containing, 
inter alia
,
work 
plans, training plans and procedures to be used for the purpose of implementation of the 
Project, and such term includes any schedules to the PIM; 
 
(o) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on July 9, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on  
September 25, 2001; 
(p) 
“Special Accounts” means the account, referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(q) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and WASA pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
(r) 
“WASA” means the Water and Sewerage Authority established and 
operating under the Borrower's Water and Sewerage Authority Order 
 
Number 29 of 1991, as amended to the date of this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
various currencies equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 9,600,000).  
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A, and for purposes of Parts 
B
and C of the Project, open and maintain in dollars separate special deposit accounts in 
its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, 
and payments out of each respective Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on October 15 and April 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
October 15 and April 15 commencing April 15, 2015 and ending October 15, 2044.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2024, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
(a) 
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project; and  
(b) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause WASA to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the WASA Project Agreement all the obligations of WASA therein 
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable WASA to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than 18 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. (a) For the purposes of Part B and C of the Project, the Borrower 
shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category 1 (a) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to WASA under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and WASA (the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, and which shall include that the proceeds of the Credit be on lent in the 
currency of the Borrower with a repayment period of 25 years including a grace period of 
7
years and an interest rate of 2% per annum.  
Page  8
-
7
-
7
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.05 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, jointly with WASA, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and WASA and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower and WASA on the said plan. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B and C of the 
Project shall be carried out by WASA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.06. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
(i) open and maintain an account (the MNR Project Account) in Maloti 
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and  
(ii) cause WASA to open and maintain an account (the WASA Project Account); 
(b) 
make initial deposits (i) of $100,000 equivalent into the MNR Project 
Account and (ii) $150,000 equivalent into the WASA Project Account; 
(c) 
thereafter, on the first day of each calendar semester, deposit into the 
MNR Project Account and into the WASA Project Account amounts of $100,000 and 
$150,000 equivalent respectively; and 
(d) 
use the funds deposited in the MNR Project Account and cause WASA 
to use the funds deposited into the WASA Project Account exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project. 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, from time to time, upon recommendations 
made by WASA, take promptly any measures required on its part to ensure that water 
tariffs are set at levels sufficient to cover 
WASA’s full operating expenses, depreciation 
and cost of capital. 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) (i) enter into a Performance Agreement 
with WASA under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and (ii) discharge 
all of its obligations under the Performance Agreement with due diligence and in 
accordance with all time-tables and performance targets set forth therein; (b) carry out 
jointly with WASA the Performance Audit; (c) furnish to the Association the 
Performance Audit report not later than six months following the completion of its annual 
implementation period for review and comments by the Association; and (d) promptly 
thereafter implement, or cause WASA to implement the recommendations resulting from 
the Performance Audit as agreed upon with the Association.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part A of the 
Project or any part thereof. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants 
 
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause WASA: 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
(a) 
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
 
(b) 
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, environmental, engineering and water supply practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers; and 
 
(c) 
at all times to operate and to maintain its plant, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, 
environmental and water supply practices. 
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; 
(b) 
WASA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; 
(c) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that WASA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
(d) 
Order No. 29 of 1991 of the Borrower shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of WASA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
(e) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
WASA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph (d) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 90 days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has adopted the PIM, in form and substance acceptable to 
the Association;  
(b) 
the Borrower has concluded with WASA an agreement satisfactory to the 
Association pursuant to which WASA is released from the obligation of servicing 
outstanding debt related to capital investments made for water supply operations prior to 
the year 1992; 
(c) 
a procurement adviser with qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Association, has been recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  
(d) 
WASA has delivered initial FMR satisfactory to the Association;  
(e) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and WASA; and 
(f) 
the initial deposits in the amounts of $100,000 and $150,000 referred to 
in Section 3.06 of this Agreement have been made into the MNR Project Account and the 
WASA Project Account respectively. 
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
WASA, and is legally binding upon WASA in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and WASA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and WASA in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
Section 8.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning 
 
P.O. Box 395 
 
Maseru, 100 
 
Lesotho 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
     Facsimile: 
 
FINMIN      266 
22 
310 
157 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Maseru, the Kingdom of Lesotho, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
By /s/  Timothy  Thahane 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/  Ritva  Reinikka 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Civil 
works 
(a) For Part B 
(b) For Part C 
 
3,470,000 
1,090,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 90% of local expenditures 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services, 
including audit 
(a) For Part A  
(b) For Parts B and C 
 
1,300,000 
1,090,000 
90% 
(3) 
 
Goods 
(a) For Part A 
(b) For Parts B and C 
 
180,000 
550,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 90% of local expenditures 
 
(4) Training 
(a) For Part A  
(b) For Parts B and C 
 
210,000 
170,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) 
Refunding of Project  
Preparation Advance 
410,000 
Amount due pursuant to Section 
2.02 (c) of this Agreement 
(6) Unallocated 
1,130,000 
 
 TOTAL 
=======
9,600,000
Page  16
-
15
-
15
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:  
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and  
(c) 
“training” means expenditure incurred on scholarships, purchase of 
training materials, rental of training facilities, health insurance for travel abroad, per diem 
and travel costs related to the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 960,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1 (a) and 2 (b) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 30, 2004. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and (e) training, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to secure the supply of adequate clean water and 
sanitation services to the population of the Borrower living in the Lowlands areas. 
The Project, which constitutes the first phase of the Water Sector Improvement 
Project, consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:     Strengthening Capacity for Policy Formulation and Implementation in MNR
1. 
Enhancing the skills of MNR’s staff to formulate adequate policy for the water 
sector and to supervise implementation of the said policy. 
2. 
Carrying out a series of studies aimed at establishing policies required to improve 
the performance of the Borrower’s water sector, including the following: 
(i) formulation of an adequate communication strategy aimed at reaching out to water 
users to provide them with relevant information in an effective manner; (ii) upgrading the 
legal and regulatory framework governing water sector operations; (iii) formulation of an 
adequate water tariffs structure and an appropriate tariffs setting mechanism; and (iv) 
preparation of a water resources management plan. 
3. 
Carrying out training activities, including workshops and seminars aimed at 
enhancing technical expertise within MNR and WASA. 
4. 
Acquisition of equipment, computers, and related software, materials and 
supplies. 
Part B:     Water Supply Works and Operations
Improvement of WASA’s production and distribution capacity for water supply 
in the Lowlands areas through: 
1. 
construction of a new water intake scheme (comprising the intake structure, 
desilting pumps and a power supply unit) on the Mohokare River so as to increase the 
water abstraction rate to about 2 m3 per second; 
2. 
construction of an additional water treatment plant capable of discharging 
20 mega liters per day (in Maseru); 
3. 
construction of an additional pumping station and an additional pipeline to 
deliver water from MWTP to the Low and Medium North Reservoirs in Maseru;
 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
4. 
construction of new water facilities including a small pump station, a reservoir 
and a pipeline as needed to supply water to Mazenod and to the Moshoesho I 
International Airport area; and 
5. 
acquisition of required technical advisory services, equipment, computers and 
related software, materials and supplies. 
Part C:     Maseru Community Water and Sanitation Program
1. 
Formulation and implementation of pilot schemes designed to facilitate access to 
clean water by underserved populations in selected villages. 
2. 
Monitoring and evaluation of results achieved under the pilot schemes referred to 
under paragraph 1 above. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  If the Borrower employs any procurement or inspection 
agents, it shall ensure that the requirements of Section 3.10 and 3.11 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and the following additional procedures: 
1. Domestic 
Preference.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods which the Association agrees can 
only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of limited international bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
2. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
competitive bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 3.14 
and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which meet the requirements for 
direct contracting referred to in paragraphs 3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement 
Guidelines may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraphs. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B 
of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines and the following provision:  for purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B: Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments, which meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of quality in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments, which meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a fixed budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments, which meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of lowest cost in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances, which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source 
selection, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
Section IV.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
A. Prior 
Review
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services).
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to: the first three contracts 
procured under the Project for each contract for goods, and services (other than 
consultants’ services)
 
estimated to cost $150,000 and for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more procured on the basis of international competitive 
bidding, limited international bidding or national competitive bidding.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be 
procured on the basis of direct contracting: (i) prior to the execution of the contract, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract for its approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s 
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(h) and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms
.
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of single source 
selection: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s approval 
shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individual Consultants
.
(a) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:  (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval;  (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s 
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source basis:  (i) the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval; (ii) the 
contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s approval shall have been given; 
and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply to the contract. 
B. Post 
Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
I.  
General Provisions
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule 4 and procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the PIM, the 
Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual, the EMP, and the PFLAC and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, or waive any 
provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
By September 30, 2004, the Borrower shall adopt a mechanism satisfactory to the 
Association aimed at securing the release of waters from the Lesotho Highlands dams 
into the Mohokare River so as to ensure adequate supply of water to the Lowlands areas 
as dictated by prevailing meteorological circumstances.  
II: 
Supervision, Coordination and Advisory
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
4.  
The Borrower shall recruit and maintain through the duration of the Project, a 
Water Sector Advisor with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
 III: 
MNR Responsibilities
5.  
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, a Project Management Unit (PMU) which shall have 
primary responsibility for implementation of Part A of the Project; the PMU shall be 
endowed with staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications and experience shall be at 
all times satisfactory to the Association.  
6.  
The Borrower shall report quarterly to the Association on progress of the annual 
work program for the Project, in particular: (i) the preparation of consolidated annual 
work programs and budgets for the Project; (ii) the preparation of FMRs in accordance 
with Section 4 of this Agreement; and (iii) the preparation of reports on the status of 
Project implementation. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
IV: WASA 
Responsibilities
7. 
The Borrower shall cause WASA to establish and thereafter maintain at all times 
during the implementation of the Project, a WASA Project Management Unit (WPMU), 
with primary responsibility for carrying out the day-to-day activities for Parts B and C of 
the Project, including reporting on a quarterly basis to the Borrower on progress achieved 
in carrying out Parts B and C of the Project. 
V. Mid-term 
Review
8. 
The Borrower shall: (a) no later than two years after Effectiveness Date or such 
other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, carry out jointly with 
WASA and the Association, a midterm review (Midterm Review). The Midterm Review 
shall cover, among other things, an assessment of: (i) work programs prepared as of the 
date of the Midterm Review and the progress made in carrying out the said programs; (ii) 
training provided under the Project; (iii) procurement under the Project; (iv) the extent to 
which actions described in the agreed indicators have been carried out; and (v) plans 
made or proposed for updating said indicators. 
 
(b) 
No later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower and 
WASA shall furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report, in such 
detail, as the Association shall reasonably request, on the implementation of the Project 
in preparation of said Midterm Review. 
 
(c) 
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower and WASA shall act 
promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the 
Association to remedy any shortcomings noted in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower, 
WASA and the Association. 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 2 (a), 3 (a) and 4 (a) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of  
Part A of the Project and Categories 1, 2 (b), 3 (b) and 4 (b) set forth in the said table in 
respect of Parts B and C of the Project. 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$200,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount 
equivalent to $800,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts B and C thereof, to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount 
equivalent to $400,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts B and C thereof, until: 
(i) in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories 2 (a), 3 (a) and 4 (a) plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 400,000; and (ii) in respect of the Special Account for 
Parts B and C of the Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account allocated to Categories 1, 2 (b), 3 (b) and 4 (b) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B and C of the Project shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,600,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts, which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)  
(i)  
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
 Association 
shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures, as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  28
-
27
-
27
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used for the 
Project implementation are as follows: 
Indicator  
Mid-term 
End of Phase I 
Water and Sanitation 
Services Act 
 
Draft ready for public 
consultation 
 
Act passed through 
Parliament 
Water Resources Act  
Revision of the Water 
Resources Act completed 
Act passed through 
Parliament 
Number of new connections 
3000 
3200 
No. of customers with less 
than 18 hour supply 
 
84,000 
 
76,000 
Unaccounted for water 
reduction -percentage 
 
35.5 
 
30.0 
Percentage of biological 
samples failing 
 
5.5 
 
3.0 
Page  29
-
28
-
28
Percentage of effluent 
samples failing 
 
5.5 
 
3.0 
Cash Collection - 
percentage 
 
93.5 
 
95 
Debts covered -percentage 
85 
90 
Performance Audit of 
Report
–
publicly available 
1
s
t
Performance Audit 
Report available 
 
Second Performance Audit 
Report available 
