Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3995-LSO 
 
Project Agreement 
 
Water Sector Improvement Project 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY 
 
Dated  December 7, 2004 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
CREDIT NUMBER 3995-LSO 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated December 7, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and WATER AND SEWERAGE 
AUTHORITY (WASA). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Kingdom of Lesotho (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,600,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that WASA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and WASA, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to WASA on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS WASA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) WASA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and water supply 
Page  3
-
3
-
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts B and C of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and WASA shall otherwise agree, WASA shall carry out 
Parts B and C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) WASA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B and C of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, WASA shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, jointly with the Borrower, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association and furnish to the Association not 
later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association 
and WASA and the Borrower, a plan for the future operation of 
facilities under Parts B and C of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with WASA and the Borrower on the said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. WASA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, WASA shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) WASA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association and the Borrower with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
WASA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by WASA of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
Page  4
-
4
-
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of WASA  
 
Section 3.01 (a) WASA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and water 
supply practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted 
by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 above, WASA shall 
recruit and thereafter maintain throughout the duration of the Project an environmental 
specialist and a community water and sanitation specialist with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section 3.02. WASA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, environmental and water supply practices. 
 
Section 3.03. WASA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
Section 3.04.  WASA shall: (a) carry out the EMP and the PFLAC, all in 
accordance with the provisions, modalities and procedures detailed in Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement; and (b) take all measures required to ensure that 
acquisition of any land required for works for Parts B of the Project is carried out in 
accordance with modalities detailed in the PFLAC. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  WASA shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Parts B and C the Project. 
(b) WASA 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association) commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made, audited, in accordance with 
Page  5
-
5
-
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon WASA’s reporting obligations set out 
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, WASA shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Parts B and C of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Parts B and C 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and 
planned implementation for Parts B and C of the Project; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts B and C of the 
Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not 
covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
Page  6
-
6
-
4.03 (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, WASA shall produce 
for each of its fiscal year funds from internal sources not less than 10% of the annual 
WASA capital expenditure incurred for that year on account of Part B of the Project. 
(b) 
Before September 30 of each fiscal year, WASA shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the 
following fiscal year, and shall promptly furnish to the Association with a copy of the 
said review. 
(c) 
If any such review shows that WASA would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for WASA's fiscal years covered by such review, WASA shall 
promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements. 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income, any reduction in 
working capital other than cash, and counterparts funds 
related to Parts B and C of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and other 
non-cash operating charges), debt service requirements, all 
cash dividends and other cash distributions of surplus, 
increase in working capital other than cash and other cash 
outflows other than capital expenditures. 
(ii) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
(A)  revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(iii) 
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the 
end of each fiscal year. 
Page  7
-
7
-
(iv) 
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash, which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year. 
(v) 
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes. 
(vi) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount 
of repayments of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(vii) 
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred 
on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations. 
(viii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of 
a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, WASA shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
WASA shows that the estimated net revenues of WASA for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of WASA in such year on all debt of WASA including the debt to be 
incurred. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of WASA maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred. 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
Page  8
-
8
-
entered into.
 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount 
of repayments of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
 
(vi) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
WASA not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in question, which both the Association and WASA accept 
as reasonable and as to which the Association has notified WASA 
of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future 
to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or 
future operating results of WASA. 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of 
a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
 
Page  9
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
WASA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify WASA of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party
 to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  10
-
10 - 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY: 
 
P. O. Box 426 
 
Maseru 100 
 
Lesotho 
 
Facsimile: 
 
266
22
31
0006
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of WASA, or by 
WASA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by its Chief Executive, or such other person or persons as the Chief 
Executive shall designate in writing, and WASA shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  11
-
11 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Maseru, the Kingdom of Lesotho, of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Ritva  Reinikka 
Authorized Representative 
 
WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY 
 
By /s/ Refiloe  Tlali 
Authorized Representative 
 
