Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  02/16/2011 
Report No.:  AC6035
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Original Project ID: P056418 
Original Project Name: Lesotho Water 
Sector Improvement Project 
Country:  Lesotho 
Project ID:  P124867 
Project Name:  Water Sector Improvement Project AF 
Task Team Leader:  Elisabeth Sherwood 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 22, 
2011 
Estimated Board Date: March 31, 2011 
Managing Unit:   
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  Water supply (80%);Central government administration (20%) 
Theme:  Other urban development (50%);Participation and civic engagement (50%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
1.50 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.15
0.15 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Repeater [] 
 
 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
Original Project Development Objective:  to support the vision of the Government of 
Lesotho to secure adequate, sustainable, and clean water supply and to support adequate 
sanitation services for consumers living in the Lowlands areas.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1: Policy Implementation and Capacity Building in the Ministry of Natural 
Resources  
 
Component 1 provides assistance to the Ministry of Natural Resources and, specifically, 
to the office of the Commissioner of Water in the areas of policy analysis and capacity 
building.  As this component is effectively complete, funds from the Additional Credit 
will not be allocated to the component.  
 
Component 2: Augmentation and Extension of Maseru Water Supply  
 
Page  2
Component 2 provides goods, works, and services to the Lesotho Water and Sewerage 
Authority to augment water treatment and extension to the distribution system and to 
strengthen the commercial, financial, and technical operations of the utility.  The 
additional financing will fill a financing gap for ongoing civil works and the procurement 
of operational equipment under this component.  
 
Component 3: Maseru Community Water and Sanitation Program  
 
Component 3 finances investments related to pilot programs to provide water services to 
peri-urban areas of Maseru. The additional financing will fill a financing gap for ongoing 
civil works under this component.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project is centered in Maseru, the capital of Lesotho, adjacent to the Mohokare 
(Caledon) River, which is the international boundary between Lesotho and South Africa.  
Botswana and Namibia are also riparians. The area consists of rolling terrain, small hills 
and low ridges covered by grassland, but is urbanized to a great extent. The local 
elevation is 1400-1550 meters above sea level. The area receives approximately 700mm 
of rainfall per year, with distinct wet and dry seasons. There are occasional emergency 
releases of water from the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, approximately 130km 
upstream from the existing storage reservoir.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Robert A. Robelus (AFTWR) 
Ms Kristine Schwebach (AFTCS) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
As the additional financing will be utilized towards completing existing activities within 
the original scope of the project, the environmental category remains the same (B), and 
Page  3
no new safeguards policies are triggered. The remaining tasks to be financed by the 
Additional Financing are not expected to have any environmental or social impacts.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The project will enhance the short-term security of water supply to the Maseru area, in 
anticipation of the construction of the Metolong Dam. This may encourage development 
and lead to increased long-term demands for household and industrial water.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The project was out of compliance for a time, with the approved Environmental 
Management Plan (EMP) and the Policy Framework for Land Acquisition and 
Compensation (PFLAC) not being implemented. In order to bring the project back into 
compliance, four post-construction environmental and social audits were carried out in 
late 2010 to document any outstanding environmental and social impacts that resulted 
from project activities, and to identify any necessary corrective measures. The audits 
indicated that environmental impacts were minor and easy to correct. An Action Plan of 
mitigation measures has been agreed with the implementing agency. Completion of the 
identified actions is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Additional Credit.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Please note that, as part of the preparation of the original project, Botswana, Namibia, 
and South Africa were informed, through the Southern African Development Community 
(SADC) Water Sector Coordinating Unit, of the increase in abstractions from the 
Mohokare (Caledon) river that would result from implementation of the project.  All 
three countries provided their no objections to the project.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/10/2004 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/15/2004 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/14/2011 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/10/2004 
 
Page  4
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/15/2004 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/14/2011 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Not applicable.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways 
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
Yes 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo 
to the RVP prepared and sent? 
N/A 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
Page  5
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Elisabeth Sherwood 
01/26/2011 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Robert A. Robelus 
01/31/2011 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Kristine Schwebach 
01/26/2011 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Junaid Kamal Ahmad 
02/09/2011 
Comments:   
