Docunment of
The World Bank
Repo-t No. 163775-(OM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
June 5, 1997
Human Development 2 and
Country Department 8
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                       Comorian Franc (CF)
U.S. $ I                                        CF 400
SDR I                                           CF 550
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND A( RONYIMS
CIPR                        Regional Inspection Office ((Coiconscription d'Inspection Pedagogique
Regionale)
CNGEPE                      National Center for Implementation of Education Projects (Centre
National de Gestion et d'Exe u/inon des Projets d'Education)
CNH                         National Hlorticulture Center (Centre National Horticole)
ENAC                        National Institute for Administration and Accounting (Ecole Nationale
d'Administration et de' Comptahilite)
ENTP                        National Institute for Technical and Vocational Training (Ecole Nationale
d'Enseignement Technique et l'rofessionnel)
FADC                        Community Development Fund (Fonds d'Appui au Developpement
Communautaire)
IFERE                       Institute for Training and Research in Education (Institut de Formation et
de Recherche en Education)
ISESCO                      Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
MOE                         Ministry of Education (Ministc re de l'Education Vationale)
MOF                         Ministry of Finance (,Ministirc dies Financesv er dii Budget)
OVT                         Office for Vocational Training ((Office de Ia Formation Professionnelle)
PMU                         Project Management Unit
PRET                        Program for the Reintorcement of Education and Training
UNDP                        United Nations Development l'rogram
UNESCO                      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
IJNICEF                     United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID                       (United States) Agency for Iniernational Development
VTF                         Vocational Training Fund (finds d'Appui a' la Foormation)
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited the Comoros between
February 21 and March 13, 1997. The mission members were Messieurs Daniel Viens, Task team leader
and mission leader, Girindre Beeharrv, economist, Pierre Mersier, vocational training and implementation
specialist, Seth Randrianasolo, educator, and Ms. Iydia Randrianja. educator. The report was processed by
Ms. Hilda Emeruwa-Crepy.
Messrs. Callisto Madavo, Michael N. Sarris, and Ok Pannenborg are Vice-President, Country Director, and
Technical Manager for this operation, respectively.



Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Basic Data
General
Area                                          1,861 km2
Grande Comore (Ngazidja)                    1,147 km2
Anjouan (Ndzouani)                            424 km2
Moheli (Mwali)                                290 km2
Total population (1991)                     446,817
Annual rate of growth of population (1981 -1991)  2.7%
Adult Literacy Rate (1991)                      61%
Birth Rate                                        4.3%
Death Rate                                        1.5%
Life Expectancy                                  55 years
Enrollments (1995-96)
Level and Age Group    Grade    Total    Male   Female % Female % Private
Primary (7-12)            1-6  78,527   42,908    35,619    45.4%      9.5%
Lower Secondary (13-16)  7-10   14,937    8,123    6,814     45.6%    39.0%
Upper Secondary (17-19)  11-13    6,255    3483     2772     44.3%    31.9%
Teacher Training (20 +)   14-15   161      105        56     34.8%      NA
Studying Abroad          14 +     943      764       179     19.0%      NA
Net Participation Rates (1995-96)   Total    Male   Female
Primary                       55%      61%       50%
Lower Secondary                9%      10%        8%
Upper Secondary              2.4%     2.7%       2.1%
Gross Participation Rates (1995-96)   Total    Male   Female
Primary                       83%      91%       75%
Lower Secondary               26%      28%       23%
Upper Secondary               15%      17%       14%
Public Expenditure on Education (1995)
Recurrent as % of total government expenditure             21.1%
Investment as % of total government expenditure               NA
External financing as % of total education expenditure      15.8%
Share of recurrent expenditure by level of education and category
of expenditure
Primary                                              36.5%
Secondary (general)                                  29.5%
Secondary (vocational and technical)                  5.7%
Post-secondary                                       17.8%
Central administration                               10.5%
Other                                                 0.0%
Unit Cost per Student (1995)
Primary                                                   55 US$
Secondary (general)                                       193 US$
Secondary (vocational and technical)                    1,411 US$
Post-secondary                                          4,544 US$






ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Education
Targeted Intervention:  Yes
Credit Amount:        Interim Trust Fund Credit of SDR 5.1 million (US$ 7.0
million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms, with 1 0-year grace period and 40 years
to maturity
Commitment Fee:       0.50% on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Project Description:    The project would support investments in the first two priority
sub-sectors identified in the Government's Program for the
Reinforcement of Education and Training, namely primary
education and vocational training. To ensure effective and
timely implementation of the project, it would also support
local capacity building in the planning, execution,
monitoring and evaluation of sector management.
The project would improve learning at primary level
through increased participation in quality education.
Participation would be improved through: (a) establishment
of local school committees with financial and managerial
authority on public primary schools; and (b) provision of
adequate infrastructure through improvement grants to
participating communities in targeted areas. Quality of the
teaching-learning processes would be improved through: (a)
development of better management practices to monitor
delivery  of  the  study  program;  (b)  provision  of
teaching/learning materials, both for class and individual
learning activities; (c) changes in the teaching-learning
methods used by teachers in the classroom; (d) changes in the
supervision practices to develop and monitor implementation
of effective teaching practices; and (e) support to development



Comoros: Third Education Project
of learning assessment and education information systems at
regional and central levels of the MOE.
The project would improve competencies of skilled workers
through the establishment of an autonomous, flexible and
effective demand-driven training system in which training
institutions and employers will get grants from the
Government.   The  establishment of a  performing
vocational training system would be achieved through the
creation of a small, autonomous institution -- the Office for
Vocational Training (OVT) -- managed by an independent
council.  Competencies and skills would be developed
through (a) support for management and the initial financing
of a Vocational Training Fund (VTF) which would finance
one part of the expenses of training linked to the execution of
sub-projects which respond to needs identified in the labor
market; (b) support for the development of training modules
which lead to a qualification and the training of the trainers;
and (c) support for the reorganization of existing vocational
training institutions in order to develop autonomous
management, as well as modular programs adapted to the
labor market.
The project would support the development of effective
project management capacities among staff in the Project
Management Unit (PMU) and improve competencies of MOE
authorities in planning, execution, monitoring and evaluation
of the sector program.
Financing Plan:       IDA  US$7.0  million, Government US$0.3  and  Local
Communities / Beneficiaries US$0.2 million.
Economic Rate of      Not applicable.
Return:
Map:                  IBRD 28621



ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................................................                                                            i
1. BACKGROUND ....................................................................                                                                        I
A. INTRODUCTION .................................................................... I
B. ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT .................................................................... 2
C. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EDUCATION  AND TRAINING ....................................................................                                      3
D. FINANCING  OF EDUCATION ....................................................................                                                           6
E. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM FOR THE REINFORCEMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING .......... ........... I 0
F. IDA  ASSISTANCE STRATEGY .................................................................... I I
G. LESSONS LEARNED FROM  PREVIOUS IDA  INVOI-VEMENT ........ ............................................................ 12
H. DONOR ASSISTANCE  IN THE SECTOR .................................................................... 12
2. THE PROJECT ....................................................................                                                                      13
A. THE OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT ....................................................................1  3
B  DETAILED  PROJECT DESCRIPTION ....................................................................                                                    1 4
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................................                                                          28
A. PROJECT COSTS ....................................................................                                                                   28
B. PROCUREMENT ....................................................................                                                                     30
C. DISBURSEMENTS, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT .................................................................... 33
D. IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................................                                                    35
E. PROJECT MONITORING  AND SUPERVISION .................................................................... 37
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ....................................................................                                                            38
G. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  OF THE PROJECT .................................................................... 38
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................................................                                                              40
A. BENEFITS ....................................................................                                                                        40
B. RISKS . ...........................................................  40
5. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION ...................................................  41
TABLE 1-1 : RECURRENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION SELECTED INDICATORS                                                                                        7
TABLE 3-1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                                                                                                                      28
TABLE 3-2: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS                                                                                                          31
TABLE 3-3: WITHDRAWAL OF PROCEEDS OF THE IDA CREDIT                                                                                                      33
FIGURE 2-1: NETWORK OF PRIORITY FACTORS TO IMPROVE LEARNING AT PRIMARY
LEVEL                                                                                                                                           15
FIGURE 2-2: VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM                                                                                                                  23



2
ANNEXES
Annex 1     End-of-Cycle Profile of Students at the Completion of Primary Education
Annex 2     Project Costs
Annex 3     Technical Assistance Program
Annex 4     Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 5     Expected Outcomes and Perfornance Indicators
Annex 6     Economic Analysis
Map: IBRD 28621



ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   With GDP per capita estimated at US$460 (1996), the majority of the population
of the Comoros (504,000 in 1996) lives in relative or near-poverty. On the other hand,
the country has a favorable income distribution, with very few people at the extremes of
wealth or poverty, a functioning traditional safety net which is supported through
remittances from abroad (estimated at US$40 per year, per capita) and communities
which have demonstrated cohesiveness, interest in the development process, willingness
to pay for quality services, and ability to take responsibility for management. The 1994
Poverty Assessment I concluded that major improvements in poverty reduction had to
come through: (a) overall economic growth, with equity; and (b) improved public
services to the poor, especially primary education and primary health care.
1.2   These recommendations are fully consistent with the Government's long-term
strategy --supported by the Bank-- to accelerate growth through increasing productivity in
agriculture and developing the small-scale and informal sectors, while expanding into
new areas such as tourism, export processing and financial and other business services.
Of these areas, agricultural growth as well as small scale manufacturing and services will
benefit the poor, provided access to relevant training programs is improved. In the social
sectors, the priority is to improve the accessibility of basic services by attracting clients
through the quality and reliability of health and education. This in turn calls for a well-
balanced program of expenditures in these core sectors. This approach is in line with the
Mini-CAS (June 1995) which recommends continued assistance to macro-economic and
structural reforms initiated in the early 1990's through a proposed structural adjustment
credit, and support to sectoral operations in the Agriculture / Environment and Education
sectors.  These proposed operations would complement the on-going FY92 Road
Maintenance, the FY94 Small Enterprise Development, the FY94 Population and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) and the FY97 Pilot Agricultural Services projects.
1.3   The Government is aware that the present education system is not producing the
basic skills required for national development and the reduction of poverty. Following
the democratization process initiated in the early 1990's, the Government of the Comoros
held a National Conference in 1992, which was followed by the National Consultation on
The World Bank (September 1994). Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros - Poverty and Growth
in a Traditional Small Island Society. Population and Human Resources Division, Department 111,
Africa Region. Report No. 13401-COM.



2
Education (the "Etats Gen&raux") in June/July 1994 2 and the preparation of a Program
for the Reinforcement of Education and Training (PRET) 3 in 1996. During negotiations,
the Goverrnent confirmed its commitment to implement the PRET, in particular the
objectives of its first five-year program (1997-2002). The program's goals are to improve
access to quality basic education and develop skills for the labor market. The underlying
strategies include targeting of programs to the poor, enhancing the relevance of education
and training, improving internal and external efficiency, and strengthening management
capacity to support these policies and measures.
B. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
1.4   Since independence in 1975 the country has experienced considerable economic
change in trying to adjust its economy to the external environment. Following a decade
of growth bubble generated by externally-financed infrastructure projects, real GDP
slowed significantly from an annual average of 6 percent in the early 1980's to 0.6 percent
over 1985-1995. This led to a decline in real per capita income by an annual average of
about 2 percent during the past decade, and the emergence of chronic financial problems
in the late 1980's. The decline in economic performance is a manifestation of the
country's developmental constraints, which include a narrow export base, weak
institutional capacity exacerbated by poor economic management, as well as an
unfavorable private sector environment. To address its macroeconomic imbalances and
remove some of the structural constraints to growth, the government launched an
adjustment program in 1991.
1.5   The Adjustment Program.   The adjustment program  made progress in
liberalizing imports and removing price controls on several commodities.  It also
improved the environment for private sector activity and made some progress in reducing
the fiscal burden arising from the parastatal sector. These led to major improvements in
budgetary as well as external current account deficits in 1992-93. During that period,
there was also a strong economic recovery, accounted for mainly by the improved
performance of agriculture, manufacturing and tourism.
1.6   In January 1994, the Comorian Franc (CF) was devalued by 33 percent in foreign
currency, in concert with the 50 percent devaluation that was effected by other CFA
countries. The economy's response to this devaluation was mixed. Slow down of
economic activities in trade and agriculture was responsible for a real GDP decline
averaging 2.3 percent a year in 1994-95. Tourism growth had some compensatory effect
in 1994, with tourist arrivals registering a 20 percent increase, but this was dampened by
the coup of September 1995. Exports performance for traditional commodities was poor
2   The proceedings of the Etats Generaux were published in two volumes (available in the project files)
in April 1995 with the assistance from the Agence de Cooperation Culturelle et Technique (ACCT).
3  Government of the Comoros, Ministry of Education (March 1996). Plan Directeur de developpement
de lPeducation et de laformation - 1996-2001.



3
because of the depressed market of vanilla and cloves, even though new export products
were starting to develop. With major shortfalls in revenues and an increase in current
expenditures, the country's fiscal performance in 1994 and 1995 was weak. By end of
1995, salary arrears for civil servants accumulated up to six months -- and reached 9
months by end of 1996 -- and external arrears reached US$43 million. The inflation rate
rose by some 20 percent in 1994 but stabilized at about 7 percent in 1995. In 1996, real
GDP grew by 1 percent as tourism picked up and the private sector started to regain
confidence after the March presidential election, and the rate of inflation dripped to 3.5
percent as prices stabilized. However, public finances remain difficult.
1.7   Economic reforms in the Comoros have been complicated by the parallel efforts at
introducing political reforms. The country's political landscape has been historically
characterized by turbulence associated with attempts to reconcile modem governance
with ancestral traditions. The latest phase of political change was initiated in 1990 with
reforms aimed at bringing the country from one party rule to representative government.
A multiparty Constitution was approved by referendum in June 1992. Since that time,
however, the political situation has remained fragile, given the recent history of frequent
changes in government and several coup attempts.
1.8   Presidential and legislative elections held in March and December 1996,
respectively, represent a major landmark in the country's political transition process, and
it is anticipated that this would usher in a period of stability. New private investments are
forthcoming in the hotel expansion, fishing and manufacturing industry. The new
Government has recognized the need for the country to improve its economic
management and performance, and has started to take measures to improve budgetary
revenues and cut expenditures. The devaluation of January 1994 has brought some
improvement in the country's competitiveness, and continued membership of the
Comoros in the Franc zone will provide a degree of stability based on prudent monetary
policy. However, internal adjustment needs to be continued through compression of
public expenditures and of the real cost of services and labor. The deepening of tax
reforms is also needed to remove tax-induced distortions and strengthen government
revenue base. The new Government is preparing a second adjustment program to support
these reforms as well as consolidate the gains from the earlier adjustment efforts, and has
requested support from the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). A
Structural Adjustment Credit and an IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) are being prepared for Board consideration in the first half of FY98.
C. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EDUCATION AND TRAINING
1.9   Modeled after the French system, the education and training system in the
Comoros is structured around four levels delivered in corresponding types of school.
These are: primary (grades I - 6) in primary schools; lower secondary (7 - 10) in collges;
upper secondary (11 - 13) in lyc&es; and post-secondary (13 and above) in teacher,
technical and management training institutes. In addition, a large proportion of children
attend the coranic school, while modem pre-schooling is rudimentary (only 6



4
kindergarten were registered in 1995) and mostly concentrated in the capital (Moroni).
Like in most African countries, the demographic structure of the population represents a
major burden on public finance with about 20 percent of the total population attending
school and growing at approximately 2,7 percent per year. Starting from a very low base
in the mid-1980's, private education witnessed a rapid expansion in recent years,
especially at secondary level.
1.10  The Government is aware that the present education system is not producing the
basic skills required for national development and the reduction of poverty. More than
one-third of school-age children do not attend formal schooling at primary level and,
among those who complete the 6-year primary cycle, only about 40 percent continue to
lower secondary schooling. In 1995-96, net enrollment ratios (the latter take out over-
and under-age children and repeaters) at primary and lower and upper secondary levels
were estimated at 55, 9 and 2 percent, respectively. Girls represented nearly 45 percent
of enrollees at each level. However, these figures mask an inequitable distribution of
services between the three islands. In 1995-96, girl's enrollment ratios were significantly
lower than those of boys in 9 of the 15 school districts, especially in Anjouan. Access to
primary education is constrained by limited space in existing classrooms. The vast
majority of the 262 public primary schools (1996) were built more than 15 years ago,
using space norms (less than 30 m2 per classroom) that are not adequate for the current
size of classes (national average of 39 pupils) and site planning which does not provide
for sanitary facilities and a minimum size courtyard. At secondary level, the capacity of
the existing public colleges (41) and lycees (9) is underutilized, mainly due to restricted
entrance at lower secondary level and recent expansion of private education, and MOE
has already started rationalizing the school map with the closing of 5 collges and I
lycees in 1994.
1.11  In addition, low internal efficiency and quality limit participation in education.
Low internal efficiency is reflected by the gap between net and gross enrollment ratios at
primary, lower and upper secondary levels, the latter estimated at 83, 26 and 15 percent,
respectively by level. A cohort analysis shows that, allowing for a maximum of three
repetitions, for 1,000 children entering Grade 1, only 174 are expected to enter the lower
secondary cycle, 87 the lower secondary cycle and 25 to pass the Grade 13 examination
(baccalaureat).   The system must provide 14 years of schooling per student who
completes the primary cycle. This situation is due in large part to the poor level of
quality of public education. During the period 1991-1994, sporadic teacher strikes have
also shortened dramatically the number of effective school days in the last four years to
less than 100 days, compared with the stated norm of 160 school days per academic year.
In 1994-95, at least 20 percent of public primary classrooms have been closed for lack of
teachers. Shortages of school materials and poor management also contributed to the
deterioration of quality. In 1993, the MOE conducted a national learning assessment at
the end of Grade 6 which concluded that pupils achieved scores in French and math were
4   Including the "Colkges Islamiques".



5
generally comparable to scores that French Grade 4 students would have achieved on
similar tests -- assuming that the curricula are very similar between the two countries.
1.12  Demand for quality education is high. In reaction to deteriorating conditions in
public schools, a growing number of parents and local authorities, mostly in the largest
villages and in dynamic communities, chose private for-profit schooling. In 1995-96,
enrollments in private schools continued increasing, representing 10 percent at primary,
39 percent at lower secondary and 32 percent at upper secondary levels (compared to 4,
22 and 9 percent in 1993-94). This shows an increasing demand and willingness to pay
for private secondary education.  While this development of private schooling is
welcomed, it raises issues of equity, sustainability (e.g. if public schools resume normal
operations) and quality assurance. Moreover, during the last two years, this development
led to further deterioration of public education, especially for the poor. Teaching staff in
private schools are recruited among civil servants who retain their public position but
often neglect their obligations to public schools. The Government is moving prudently,
considering a range of policies and measures to encourage development of quality private
schooling, while at the same time improving equitable access to quality education and
improving efficiency of public provision of education services. Measures that are being
considered include: improved accreditation system for private schools, better control of
teacher assignments and presence in public schools, and cost recovery for publicly-
provided services to private schools (e.g. teacher in-service training, standardized
examinations).
1.13  Unemployment, underemployment and low productivity are features of poverty in
the Comoros as in many developing countries. In the Comoros, the main factor
perpetuating poverty across generations is the low level of education among the poor
which limits their employment and trade options as well as their mobility. In addition,
relatively high wages (in foreign country terms) and low productivity contribute to
poverty by making the Comoros uncompetitive in international markets.
1.14 The labor market in the Comoros is not well known. The last comprehensive
manpower survey was conducted in the early 1980's; it has not been updated since, thus
making it difficult to assess the changing needs of the labor market, particularly in the
areas of tourism, commerce and trade, and the informal sector. The 1991 population
census indicates that the formal sector is small with about 21,000 employees in services,
6,000 public civil servants and 1,000 employees in private manufacturing. In the
Comoros, the main factor perpetuating poverty across generations is the low level of
education among the poor which limits their employment and trade options as well as
their mobility. Employment is expected to benefit from changes enhancing the business
environment and employment creation, such as improvement in the legal system, trade
liberalization, better access to credit and better land tenure, which are supported by an
Data from the Poverty Profile confirm the existence of a positive correlation between schooling
attainment and income level.



6
FY94 IDA-financed Small Enterprise Development Project and the proposed FY97 Pilot
Agriculture Services Project.
1.15  The vocational training system consists of six public training institutions which
altogether have a capacity of about 1,000 students. These institutions are under the
Ministries of Education (ENTP - Ecole Nationale Technique et Professionnelle; ENAC -
Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de Comptabilite; and the CNH - Centre National
Horticole), Agriculture (ENA - Ecole Nationale d'Agriculture; ENP - Ecole Nationale
des Peches), and Health (ENS - Ecole Nationale de Sante). The latter three closed in
recent years after having trained technicians and skilled workers who were employed
mostly in government agencies. The Second Education Project assisted in the creation of
ENTP and ENAC and financed civil works, equipment and development costs. Technical
assistance was provided under the French and Belgian bilateral assistance programs.
Private provision of training started only recently and is still embryonic.  Also,
community-supported apprenticeship schemes have been initiated and are supported by
the Community Development Fund (FADC) supported under the IDA-financed PHRD
Project.
1.16  The main issues of the current vocational training system are: (a) inadequate
training programs that serve poorly the needs of the labor market; (b) the absence of
reliable information on labor market to guide decisions on training strategies and
programs; (c) poor quality of training due to low levels of qualification of instructors and
insufficient financial resources; (d) the absence of the private sector in the planning,
management and financing of training; and (e) high costs of training due to inefficient use
of resources.
1.17  Post-secondary education available in the Comoros consists of teacher training,
agriculture, a business school and the school of health sciences, which overall provide
about 400 student-places.  Two teacher training institutions (IFERE or Institut de
Formation et de Recherche en Education), one in Grande Comore and one in Anjouan
(which was refurbished and equipped under the Second Education Project) offer pre- and
in-service training to teachers at primary and lower secondary levels. A large number of
students (estimated at about 1,000 in 1995) go abroad for university studies. Given its
priorities and resource availability, the government has agreed with donors to limit the
number of scholarships abroad to those provided by donor funds.
D. FINANCING OF EDUCATION
1.18  Public financing of education in the Comoros compares favorably with Sub-
Saharan Africa (SSA) countries. The share of public education expenditure in GDP
averaged 4.0 percent in the early 1990's, slightly above SSA comparable countries, and
private financing (both for- and not-for profit) accounted for an additional 25-35 percent
of public expenditure. During the period 1991-1995, GDP grew by 1.3 percent p.a. on
average while at the same time total public recurrent expenditure decreased by 6 percent
p.a. as a result of government's effort to reduce public expenditure and control the deficit.



7
Against this unfavorable economic situation, the share of public education expenditure
was maintained at approximately 25 percent of total government spending, reflecting the
sustained priority to the social sectors and to the education sector in particular. However,
total public expenditure in the sector in 1994 (actual) and 1995 (budgeted) fell below the
1990 level in real terms. And since the share of salaries in total education expenditure
was maintained, non-salary expenditures, especially on operating expenditure and
consumables, were hard hit. The 1996 recurrent budget for education proposed a
significant increase --12.5 percent in real terms compared to 1995-- raising the share of
education in total public expenditure to 29.1 percent (26.1 percent in 1995). A significant
part of that increase, however, was allocated to salaries to the detriment of materials and
consumables.
Table 1-1: Recurrent Expenditure on Education Selected Indicators
Indicator                               1991          1993         1995         1996
Index: 1990 = 100 (in real terms)
GDP                                      100.0         105.1        107.5        110.1
Total Public Recurrent Expenditure       100.0          98.6         84.5         85.4
of which: Education and Training        100.0         108.3         93.1        104.7
Public Recurrent Expenditure on
Education as a Percentage of:
GDP                                     4.0%          4.1%          3.5%         3.8%
Total Government Budget                23.7%         26.0%        26.1%         29.1%
Share of Education Expenditure
by Category of Expenditure:
Salaries                                              79.3%        78.5%        81.2%
Administration                                        13.5%        12.0%        11.6%
Operating Expenditure                                 7.2%          9.5%         7.2%
Note: Actual expenditure for 1991 and 1993; budgeted figures for 1995 and 1996
Source: Government of the Comoros, Ministry of Finance. Accounts and Budgets for corresponding years.
1.19   The Government is addressing the following issues: (a) the need to encourage
participation of parents, local communities, private enterprises and the beneficiaries in the
financing of education, especially at secondary and tertiary levels, in return for shared
responsibility between the Government and its partner, as well as greater accountability.
Specific measures include: establishment of local boards and decentralization of decisions
to the local authorities; establishment and implementation of objective criteria for
selection of students and award of fellowships at secondary and tertiary levels; and
transparent accounting and financing systems with regular audit reports; (b) the need to
increase allocations to non-salary expenditure, especially for operating expenditure to



8
support functioning of schools, inspection and supervision of teachers, in-service training,
provision of teaching-learning materials and maintenance of the information system; (c)
policies and measures to improve the effectiveness of public spending on education,
including the strict application of norms regarding the number of school-days during the
academic year and the monitoring of performance at all levels of the system; and (d) the
need to appoint an additional 100 primary level teachers whose positions have been
approved in the context of the Civil Service Reform, but not yet filled, as well as recruit
additional teachers who will be needed for enrollment expansion.
1.20  Non-salary Expenditure.   To protect "vital" non-salary expenditure the
Government is envisaging fixed levels of budgetary resources to priority operations
which would be monitored closely. Starting in 1995 the MOE budgeted a block transfer
to schools for the opening of the 1995-96 academic year.  During negotiations,
agreements were reached on further measures to be introduced in 1997. These include
provision of budgetary resources to ensure: (a) a minimum of two visits of the district
Inspectorate to each primary school; (b) a minimum of 10 working days of in-service
training per year, to be organized at the school and district levels; (c) a provision of at
least 600 FC (US$1.70) per pupil, per annum, to purchase teaching-learning materials;
and (d) two school census per academic year (November and June) to monitor the
performance of the education and training system.
1.21  Salary Expenditure. Salaries represent nearly 80% of total public recurrent
expenditure on education, comparable to most developing countries around the world.
The current composition of these expenditures in the Comoros prevents further
economies and/or reallocation of expenditure within the sector (from salary to non-salary)
for two reasons. First, as a result of the Civil Service Reform initiated in 1991 under
MERCAP, the total number of staff positions in MOE has been reviewed and determined
after extensive studies and internal reorganizations. Thus, further reductions of salaries
that could be generated from streamlining or downsizing are difficult. Second, an
additional 100 teaching positions in public primary schools have remained vacant since
mid-1996. This is due to delays in implementing staff reductions in other parts of
government, which would have freed positions within the agreed upon ceiling and
allowed the MOE to recruit teachers in accordance with its approved staffing plan. Thus,
there is an urgent need to recruit additional teachers at primary level, which will increase
the share of expenditure on salary in MOE over the total government budget for salary
while at the same time complying with aggregate number of positions and total salary
bill.
1.22  Effectiveness. Of all issues in the financing of education in the Comoros, the
reduction of the wastage of public resources and poor management bears the most
promising pay-off, but is also the most difficult to address. During the period 1991-1994,
the public education system has been paralyzed by frequent strikes --called by teachers'
unions as well as by other constituencies-- with the net effect to dispense less than 60% of
the expected 160 days of schooling per academic year. This has had an immediate and
profound impact on public finance, quality of schooling, learning outcomes of students,



9
morale of staff in MOE and the level of public confidence on education. Since the
Government kept paying salaries --albeit with delays from 2 to 6 months-- to civil
servants on strike, approximately 40% of the salary bill has been wasted. Moreover,
frequent, unexpected and uncontrolled strikes have left thousands of students with
disrupted instruction and an absence of follow-up. In recent years, larger number of
parents decided to send their children to private schools which multiplied rapidly in all
parts of the country, especially at secondary level and in the capital. However, as noted
above (para. 1.12), most of the new private schools recruited their teaching staff among
qualified teachers in public schools, thus preventing exertion of pressure from teachers
and parents to reach an agreement to the labor conflicts.
1.23  During the first half of 1995, the Government adopted a strong position vis-a-vis
the unions, announcing that it would not pay salaries for a two-month strike in late 1994.
That decision was reverted by the next Government in October 1995, in the wake of
presidential elections. Other promising measures were also implemented before the
September 1995 coup. They included participation of Government authorities in open
public debates (organized by a private television network established in Moroni) to raise
awareness and justify policies adopted by government. Also, representatives of teachers'
unions were invited to participate, as full members, to steering committees in charge of
preparing the 1995-96 academic year and of recruiting and training primary level
teachers. In addition, the MOE initiated discussions with representatives of the private
sector with the view to ensure that minimum requirements for public service are met by
those teachers who cumulate teaching in public and private schools.
1.24  These measures point to the need for continued dialogue with the various partners
to re-establish an ethos in the education sector. Promising strategies aim at: presenting
the Government's policies in a clear, transparent and objective manner, through the media
while at the same time inviting other partners to participate in the resolution of problems;
encouraging participation of all stakeholders in the decision-making process at the level
which is most appropriate for the resolution of the issue; setting clearly and disseminating
widely the goals and objectives of the system in operational terms that can be measured
and reported back regularly; and collecting and disseminating information on key
financial and technical performance indicators.
1.25  Parficipation, Responsibility and Accountability. One of the merits of the
extensive consultations which have taken place in the sector over the last 2 years is the
recognition of the need to change the role of govermnent from a universal and unique
provider of free education to one of partner with important, but limited resources. This is
not new in the Comoros since local communities have been traditionally actively
involved in the financing, management and operation of social services (para. 1.1).
However, over the years parents and students got accustomed to stipends for teachers
trainees and students at technical training institutions, free boarding for all students and
unlimited number of years of fellowship for tertiary level education abroad. In recent
years, measures have been implemented to cut back or eliminate these expensive and
ineffective incentives: stipends to instructor trainees have been abolished in 1994;



10
boarding facilities in secondary schools have been closed gradually over the last decade;
and regulations have been introduced to limit the number of fellowships, identify priority
areas of study and instigate students to complete diligently their study program.
1.26  Other measures and actions are needed. Their aim is to encourage participation of
parents, local communities, private enterprises and the beneficiaries in the financing of
education, especially at secondary and tertiary levels where public funds will continue to
finance a large part of the costs for a limited number of individuals. Policies to promote
shared responsibility and enhanced accountability include: establishment of local boards
and decentralization of decisions to the local authorities; establishment and
implementation of objective criteria for selection of students and award of fellowships at
secondary and tertiary levels; and transparent accounting and financing systems with
regular audit reports.
E. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM FOR THE REINFORCEMENT
OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING
1.27  The production of the Program for the Reinforcement of Education and Training
(PRET) is the culmination of a process initiated by the Government in early 1994 and
supported by the Bank under the Second Education Project (closed in October 1994) and
a first advance under the Project Preparation Fund (PPF) (approved in January 1995),
with complementary financing from a Japan PHRD Grant approved in June 1994. This
process involved direct participation of about 200 representatives from Government,
regional and local authorities, villages' notability (notables), parents, teachers and
students, public and private enterprises, and national consultants. In addition, the MOE
commissioned 11 studies conducted by more than 30 local consultants with assistance
from 4 international consultants.
1.28  The Program presents a long term vision of the directions of change, and the
investment priorities in the first phase (1997-2002) of a development program that spans
over two decades (to the horizon 2015). The overall goal is in harmony with the
development objectives of the Comoros: to improve the quality of life of the Comorians
at the same time as giving priority to economic growth and to an equitable distribution of
basic social services. This is to be achieved through closer and more cost-effective
collaboration between schools and communities, as well as between training institutions
and the labor market. During the first five-year period, priority would be given to
improving access to quality basic education, developing a performing manpower training
system and strengthening managerial capacity to lead, monitor, evaluate and sustain
measures and actions outlined in the program. During the same period, low cost priority
investments would be made to improve quality and efficiency of secondary, tertiary and
pre-schooling education.
1.29  The program rests on two complementary strategies. First, the aim is to improve
learning outcomes of students in their immediate environment, namely the classroom and
the school they attend. Second, the aim is to empower village communities in the



11
management of schools and those involved in economic activities in the design,
implementation and evaluation of priority initiatives in training.
1.30  The choice of these strategies draws on economic, institutional and political
analyses. In the economic plan, the priority sectors of basic education and manpower
training are informed by analyses of the viability and of externalities which demonstrate
their impact on improving the quality of life, especially for the poor. In the institutional
plan, recent studies undertaken by MOE indicate the need, on the one hand, to lighten and
to recenter the role of the federal state institutions and, on the other hand, to empower the
primary beneficiaries (youth, their families, the village and employers) by means of
contracts involving partnership and productivity. Finally, in the political plan, the
strategy rests upon the principle of participation of local communities in education, which
was enunciated as a consequence of the Etats Ggneraux of education and embodied in the
PRET.
1.31  The PRET has been defined by the principal partners of the State: the Ministry of
Education, the Ministries of Finance and of Planning, of Agriculture and of Production,
as well as the Chamber of Commerce, economic and social partners, and employers. The
major orientations of the program have equally formed the basis of consultations within
Government and with international agencies such as UNDP, UNICEF, UNESCO,
ISESCO, the French Cooperation, the European Union and CIDA.
1.32  The current version of the financial plan estimates that priority investments for the
initial five-year period (1997-2002) total FC 12.0 billion (or US$34.0 million), including
FC 3.5 billion from Government, FC 1.0 billion from local communities and FC 7.5
billion (or US$21 million) from the donor community. The share of investments by sub-
sector would be aligned on the priorities, with primary education receiving more than
60%, vocational training 12-15%, institutional strengthening 10-12%, and secondary and
tertiary education about 7-8% each. Although there has not yet been firm commitments
by donors, an estimated FC 5.6 billion (or US$16.0 million) could be made available in
the short- to medium-term. The last of a series of informal meetings took place in March
1997 with the participation of representatives from donors present in the Comoros,
namely: UNDP, UNICEF, ISESCO, the European Union, the French Cooperation, China,
India, the Islamic League and the African Muslim Agency. To secure appropriate levels
of financing for its Program the Government plans to organize donor consultations in
June 1997.
F. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.33  Since the early 1990's, IDA's assistance strategy for education has been to
promote Government ownership and development of sectoral strategies. As part of these
efforts, the FY87 Second Education Project funded investments in primary, secondary
and technical education that aimed at strengthening the human and managerial capacity of
the Ministry of Education (MOE) and providing materials to schools. In the footsteps of
studies financed under the project and with further assistance from a Japan PHRD Grant



12
administered by the Bank, the Government organized Etats GenJraux in June/July 1994
with a view to update its strategy in the sector (para. 1.27) and MOE prepared a Program
for the Reinforcement of Education and Training in March 1996 (para. 1.28).
G. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.34 Lessons learned from the recently completed Second Education Project include
the need to: (a) base project design on government's own strategy in the sector; (b)
establish realistic and substantively agreed targets with shareholders; (c) develop an
overall financing plan for the sector, including projected sectoral recurrent costs and
government counterpart funding of specific program activities; (d) design programs with
a view to involve all technical ministries and agencies in unison with national
government initiatives on public service reform, rationalization of the fiscal situation and
improvement of public management; (e) clearly define technical assistance needs; and (f)
coordinate all aid projects by the MOE, preferably by a single unit. These lessons have
been incorporated in the design of the proposed project.
H. DONOR ASSISTANCE IN THE SECTOR
1.35 The Government is firmly committed to associate representatives of the donor
community in the process of preparation of projects and sub-projects to support
implementation of the proposed program. Specifically, participation was sought from
UNDP, UNESCO, UNICEF, ISESCO, the European Union and the French Cooperation
who have already expressed their interest to finance preparatory work and/or to
participate in the financing of the proposed program. At the invitation of Government,
three specialists from UNESCO, the Resident Representative of UNICEF, one specialist
from ISESCO, and a team of French Cooperants Techniques joined workshops on quality
of education and/or committees in charge of the preparation of detailed projects and sub-
projects under each of the six programs (including the three priority) defined in the PRET
(para. 1.28).



2. THE PROJECT
A. THE OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
2.1   The project would support investments in the first two priority sub-sectors
identified in the PRET, namely primary education and vocational training. To ensure
effective and timely implementation of the project, it would also support local capacity
building in the planning, execution, monitoring and evaluation of project-financed
activities. During Appraisal, agreement was reached on the PRET, including its major
goals, objectives, priorities, strategies and action plans.  During Negotiations, an
agreement was reached on a Letter of Development Policy for the sector.
First Objective: Improve Primary Education
2.2   The project would improve learning at primary level through increased
participation in quality education.
(a)   Participation would be improved through: (i) establishment of local
School Committees with financial and managerial authority on public
primary schools; and (ii) provision of adequate infrastructure, including
classrooms, fresh water and latrines, and storage facilities for educational
materials.
(b)   Quality of the teaching-learning processes would be improved through: (i)
development of better management practices to monitor delivery of the
study program; (ii) provision of teaching/learning materials in sufficient
quantities, both for class and individual learning activities; (iii) changes in
the teaching-learning methods used by teachers in the classroom; (iv)
changes in the supervision practices to develop and monitor
implementation of effective teaching practices; and (v) support to
development of learning assessment and education information systems at
regional and central levels of the MOE.
2.3   As a result of the project, learning in primary education would improve in the
following areas: reading, writing and speaking of French and Arabic; basic math
operations; application of basic skills in real life situation; and social behavior (hygiene
and civics). Annex 1 provides a summary description of the end-of-cycle profile
describing expected learning outcomes.



14
Second Objective: Improve Skilled Labor Training
2.4   The project would improve competencies of skilled workers through the
establishment of an autonomous, flexible and effective demand-driven training system.
(a)   The establishment of a performing vocational training system would
be achieved through the creation of a small, autonomous institution -- the
Office for Vocational Training (OVT) -- managed by an independent
board.
(b)   Competencies and skills would be developed through (i) support for
management and the initial financing of a Vocational Training Fund
(VTF) which would finance one part of the expenses of training linked to
the execution of sub-projects which respond to needs identified in the
labor market; (ii) support for the development of training modules which
lead to a qualification and the training of the trainers; and (iii) support for
the reorganization of existing vocational training institutions in order to
develop autonomous management, as well as modular programs adapted
to the labor market.
2.5   As a result of the project, apprentices and workers would improve their
qualifications and increase their productivity in the workplace. This would be achieved
through the establishment of a competitive, demand-driven system based on sub-projects
designed jointly between employers and trainers, delivered through short ad hoc modular
programs, and using existing training facilities available in the Comoros or the region.
Third Objective: Develop Effective Project Management
2.6   The project would support the development of effective project management
capacities among staff in the Project Management Unit (PMU) and improve
competencies of local authorities in planning, execution, monitoring and evaluation of
project-financed activities. Throughout the execution of the project, staff in the PMU at
central and regional levels, as well as local leaders of initiatives implemented under the
project would be exposed to, and use, a variety of techniques and tools in needs analysis,
problem-solving, communications, planning and programming, basic accounting, and
monitoring and evaluation activities.
B DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Objective 1: Improve Primary Education (estimated cost of US$4.5 million, or 65%
of total base cost)
2.7   To improve learning through increased participation in quality education, the
Government has identified priority outcome areas at the completion of the primary cycle
and the improvements in the priority factors which influence learning in French, math and



15
social/civic behavior. These are detailed in Annex 1 and summarized in Chart 2.1 below.
To improve participation, the Government has identified two priority areas that the
project will support: community participation and improved infrastructure. To improve
quality, it has identified five priority areas: management of schools, teaching-learning
materials,  teaching  methods,  supervision  and  learning  assessment.    A   better
understanding of the interaction between these factors is being developed through pilot
projects initiated in June 1996 in two public primary schools located in underserved
areas, one in Anjouan and one in Moheli.
Figure 2-1: Network of Priority Factors to Improve Learning at Primary Level
Network of Priority Factors
to Improve Learning at Primary Level
| Adequate,nt an
well-maintained           o      motivated
y   schools          if       teachers
Educational
positive, collaborative     t          Effective        \ >    EfFective            objectives:
attitude in the                     Management by             supervision           language,
community                 /        the School Head            s                     math,
practical skills,
values.
Adequate provision                   vanety of
of teaching-leaning             7teaching-leaming
materials                       activities             Support in leaming
assessment and
information systems
School Environment
Component 1.1: Improved Participation in Primary Education
2.8    Community  Participation.   The  Comoros have a long  history  of active
community participation in the provision of social and humanitarian services.
Experiences gained through implementation of the FY93 Population and Human
Resources Development Project show a great potential which remains largely
unexploited. In the health sector, community participation extends to management and
governance of village health centers. Residents elect representatives to local or sub-
district Boards of Governors which have been made responsible for the management of
subsidies transferred from the Treasury and funds collected at local level. The experience
has been generally satisfactory. However, delays in transfers of budgetary resources from



16
the Treasury to the local Boards, compounded with arrears in the payment of salaries to
civil servants, have mitigated the encouraging results achieved on the institutional front.
2.9   The Ministry of Education is firmly committed to extending a similar approach to
the education sector. This decision is endorsed by a large segment of community leaders
who participated in the regional and national consultations (the Etats Generaux de
l'education). The center piece of the strategy is to delegate authority and responsibility to
School Committees (Conseils d 'icole) which would comprise a majority of
representatives from the community and parents.
2.10  The project would assist in establishing School Committees and supporting their
development in schools located in the poorest areas of the Comoros. The School
Committees would be involved in three areas of responsibility: construction and
maintenance of the infrastructure; textbooks; and operating funds. With assistance from
the MOE project implementation team, the School Committees would prepare and submit
school projects (Projets d'cole) to MOE for construction and/or rehabilitation of their
school. At the completion of works, the School Committee would be responsible for
maintaining these facilities. Also, they would collect and administer user's fees for
textbooks distributed at the school level, as well as an annual budget for school-related
activities (excluding staff salaries and direct transfers to the schools) financed in part by
MOE and by the community.  Details of their specific functions and expected
contributions are being worked out in the course of a pilot phase during academic year
1996-97, through participative workshops involving leaders of existing community
groups, local and international NGOs, teachers and School Heads, and staff in MOE.
During appraisal, agreement was reached on an action program for the establishment of
School Committees, including the production of a standard legal document, the definition
of their mission, composition, roles and responsibilities, and the establishment of such
Committees on an experimental basis. During negotiations, a Manual of Procedures was
reviewed and agreed upon.
2.11   The project would finance specialist services, equipment, materials and
development costs needed for the production of training materials, development of
management tools and familiarization of representatives to their use, networking of
committees to share experiences, and monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of
these School Committees.
2.12  Improved Infrastructure.- The existing school infrastructure is neither capable
nor adequate to accommodate existing enrollment at primary level. The vast majority of
the existing 262 public primary schools (1995) were built more than 15 years ago, using
space norms (less than 30 m- per classroom) that are not adequate for the current size of
classes (national average of 39 pupils) and site planning which does not provide for
sanitary facilities and a minimum size courtyard. Moreover, maintenance has been
neglected for lack of funds and poor management. Of the existing 1,119 classrooms, a
survey (April 1995) found that more than half require major repairs of the roof (37%),
doors and windows (51%), walls and floor (22%). Furniture is also in short supply and



17
storage capacity inadequate. The survey found that in addition to the existing 12,280
benches, another 12,600 were needed in existing public schools to accommodate the
student population.
2.13  The Government's strategy is to assist local communities in providing adequate
infrastructure through financial participation in the construction and furnishing of
classrooms.   Recent experiences conducted under the FADC  demonstrate that
communities contribute between 15-25 percent of total costs of construction and provide
regular maintenance of buildings. Local contributions would include provision of an
adequate site, provision of basic inputs (rock, gravel, wood, etc.), payment of salaries to
locally-appointed workers, and supplies for regular maintenance.
2.14  The project would finance construction / rehabilitation, furnishing and equipping
of about 220 classrooms located in the poorest areas of the three islands. These areas are
characterized by lower-than-average enrollment ratios (especially for girls), difficult
access to school (mostly hilly areas), and acute poverty. At the completion of the project,
220 classrooms would have been refurbished or constructed in about 120 schools,
providing an additional 3,600 student-places to accommodate increased participation. By
2002, net enrollment rates of boys and girls are expected to reach 78% and 69%,
respectively, compared to 61% and 50% in 1995.
Component 1.2: Improved Quality of Primary Education
2.15  Better management practices. At the school level, management is seen as a
perfunctory function, consisting mainly in transmitting orders and requests from distant
offices to staff and students in the school.  Except for a short period following
Independence during which local authorities gained power and were made accountable to
parents, the management and monitoring of staff and the supervisory functions related to
educational programs and teaching-learning processes have been under the control of
inspectors, pedagogical advisors and administrative staff in the Regional Offices, officials
in MOE and political leaders. Selection and appointment of School Heads have been
traditionally made by political authorities in MOE, which explains the high turn-over rate
in recent years.
2.16  As part of the strategy to improve quality of primary schooling, MOE recognizes
the central role of the School Head as a manager and a catalyst in the change process to
improve learning. In this new approach, the School Head is expected to: (a) assist and
guide the School Committee; (b) plan school activities and monitor their implementation;
(c) promote participation to primary schooling in the community by encouraging parents
to send their children to school; (d) monitor attendance of students and staff; (e) provide
professional support to teachers, particularly in preparing detailed lesson plans,
monitoring progress along the program of instruction, helping teachers to cope with
difficult situations, and coordinating professional development activities; and (f) organize
and maintain school records.



18
2.17  The project would support the introduction of measures to professionalize the
recruitment, selection and development of School Heads, and would fund in-service
training programs and development costs for the introduction and maintenance of basic
management tools at the school level. These tools would include, inter alia: (a) monthly
timetable of school activities; (b) attendance registers for staff and students; (c) student
records (personal and academic); (d) accounts for the school-managed budget; (e)
inventory of furniture, equipment and teaching-learning materials; (f) reports from the
School Committee meetings, staff meetings, Inspector's visits and development activities
for teaching staff (journees pedagogiques); and (g) a set of administrative circulars.
2.18  The project would finance specialist services, equipment, materials and
development costs needed for the production of training materials, development of
management tools, training of School Heads in their use, and monitoring and evaluation
of the performance of School Heads.
2.19 Teaching-Learning Materials. In the 1980's the MOE decided to produce
textbooks in the country. Although heavy investments were made with international
assistance, a smaller than expected number of manuscripts were ready by the early 1990's
and did not meet expected standards. In 1992, the Government decided to purchase
textbooks readily available on the market and launched an international competitive
bidding process to provide textbooks in the core subjects (French, math and
geography/social sciences) at the primary and lower secondary levels. With financial
assistance under the Second Education Project (US$1.5 million), MOE procured 196,675
textbooks and teachers' guides which were distributed to all public primary schools in the
country by end of 1994. In 1995, MOE started a cost-recovery policy aimed at financing
the replacement cost of these textbooks. Lessons learned from experience point to the
critical importance of associating local communities in the decision-making process and
management of textbooks at the school level, and the need for training teachers to the use
of these materials.
2.20  Availability and quality of other teaching-learning materials are uneven. A very
small number of local communities have set up a modest library on their own funds.
Children attending public schools have no access to supplementary reading materials,
reference books, posters and charts. Schools have no printing or duplicating equipment,
and classroom equipment is minimal or absent. Budgetary problems have also reduced
public resources available for consumables (chalk, notebooks, paper).
2.21   The project would support the provision of an initial set of basic teaching-learning
materials, equipment for printing and duplicating documents locally, in-service training
of teachers in the use of these materials, training of local officials in the management of
textbooks at the school level, and development costs for these training programs. School
Committees would be expected to participate in the financing and to be accountable for
the distribution and use of these materials. Teaching-learning materials would include,
inter alia: (a) one textbook per pupil in basic subjects (French, math, social studies); (b)
one teacher guide per subject and per grade; (c) a small collection of reference materials



19
in each school (e.g. dictionary, maps, etc.); (d) school implements which would be shared
at the school level (e.g. compass, square, scissors, etc.); (e) sports equipment (football
and volleyball); and (f) gardening equipment.
2.22   The project would finance teaching-learning materials, equipment, specialist
services and development costs needed for the production of training materials, training
of teaching staff and members of the School Committees, and monitoring and evaluation
of the use and impact of these inputs on learning.
2.23   Teaching-learning Methods. Anecdotal evidence 6 suggests that teachers use a
limited number of group learning activities, do not use teachers' guides efficiently, and
rarely assign homework to pupils. Teachers tend to replicate the teaching methods that
they have observed when they were themselves students at primary and secondary level
or during pre-service teacher training. Since the early 1980's, the curriculum emphasizes
child-centered and discovery approaches in the teaching-learning process.   Some
approaches have been incorporated in pre-service training programs and in-service
activities aimed at upgrading the qualification of teachers, but there is no systematic
follow-up in real classroom  situations.   Teachers are expected to participate in
professional development activities organized during the school year (journees
p&dagogiques). However, between 1991 and 1994, frequent strikes and interruptions
have limited the effectiveness of these activities.
2.24   Teachers and administrators in the Comoros, like in many other countries, are
generally reluctant to change existing practices. However, there was a general consensus
during the Etats Generaux on the urgent need to enhance the quality of teaching through
a diversification of the repertoire of individualized and group learning activities, as well
as the development of continuous assessment techniques and complementary remediation
activities. Specifically, teachers are expected --and recognize the need-- to use problem
solving approaches, peer group learning and learning-how-to-learn approaches. Also,
teachers are expected to use more efficiently teaching-learning materials to prepare
lessons and class activities, and to enrich the learning experience of pupils through
homework and immediate feedback to pupils.
2.25   The project would support teacher development activities aimed at using a wider
range of effective teaching-learning methods in the classroom; preparing and conducting
lessons; managing time in the classroom; assigning and marking homework; and
monitoring pupils achievement. These activities would be conducted by Inspectors and
Conseillers Pedagogiques in the CIPR, in close collaboration with staff from the IFERE.
At the end of the project, more than 75% of teachers in project-area schools would use a
The 1993 evaluation of learning outcomes (tvaluation de l'efficicacite du systeme educatif) provides
some indications on the impact of selected factors in the child environment (e.g. homework, access to
a library) on achievement. Also, in the context of the preparation of the project, participants in
workshops on factors determining the quality of primary education stressed the importance of
adopting a variety of individualized and group learning activities.



20
variety of teaching-learning methods in the classroom; all teachers would use their
teachers' guides effectively; and all teachers would assign homework to pupils with
emphasis on enrichment and remediation.
2.26 The project would finance the development, delivery, monitoring and evaluation
of in-service training activities for teachers in the project-area schools, as well as
materials, equipment, specialist services and development costs needed for the production
of these materials and reports.
2.27  Supervision Practices. Less than 5% of public primary schools are visited
regularly by Inspectors and pedagogical advisors (conseillers pedagogiques).
Consequently, teachers' and School Heads' performance is not assessed and discussed
with the view to overcome weaknesses and improve effectiveness of the teaching process.
Traditionally, Inspectors have focused mostly on administrative regulations and norms,
thus neglecting instructional leadership. As mentioned above (para. 2.15), the role of
School Heads has been restricted to perfunctory functions.
2.28  In the course of the MOE restructuring in 1993, 15 inspection districts (CIPR -
Circonscription d'Inspection Pedagogique Regionale) were established. In 1994, staff
were appointed (15 Inspectors and 30 advisors), facilities rehabilitated (7 financed under
the Second Education Project) and equipment and materials distributed. A CIPR attends
an average of 17 public primary schools located within a maximum distance of 20-30
kilometers. In close collaboration with the regional research and training institutes
(IFERE - Institut de Formation des Enseignants et de Recherche en Education), the
CIPRs initiated in-service training activities. Conditions that constrain improvement
include inadequate management of existing resources, lack of operational skills in
pedagogy, constant tension between professional duties and administrative matters, and
the lack of necessary resources required for efficient operations. In 1995-96, with support
from the French Cooperation, about 400 teachers were inspected, and reports prepared
and transmitted to MOE. Based on that successful experience, an annual program of
inspection was prepared for 1996-97, and is being carried out.
2.29 Staff in MOE recognize the importance of supervision to improve learning and the
need to enhance the effectiveness of the CIPR, especially in the areas of in-service
training, instructional leadership and improvement of management and pedagogical
practices. To provide the engine for quality improvement, the PRET stresses the need to
reorganize supervisory mechanisms with the view to support school-based reforms which
would lead to improvements in learning achievement. Under this new approach,
supervision of School Heads would be the responsibility of Inspectors in the CIPRs and
in-service personnel in IFERE in order to increase the frequency and intensity of school
visits. Simultaneously, supervision of teachers and coordination of in-service training
activities would be the responsibility of School Heads who, in turn, would be accountable
for children's learning in the school.



21
2.30   Complementary to the enhancement of supervision function at the school level by
the School Head (paras. 2.16 and 2.29), the project would assist in improving school
inspection services at the school and district levels. These services would include: (a)
two visits per year to each school; (b) one annual performance assessment of School
Heads and teachers by the Inspector; (c) guidance and leadership in the design of
professional development activities in close collaboration with the School Heads, with
the view to link them to the curriculum and the daily work of teachers; and (d)
monitoring and evaluation of school-based training activities, and monitoring of the
feedback at the school and classroom levels. These activities would form part of the
contracts to be negotiated and signed between School Committees and MOE's regional
offices (paras. 2.10 and 2.11).
2.31   The  project would  finance  equipment, materials, specialist services  and
development costs needed for the production of training materials, training of supervisory
staff, and monitoring and evaluation of the impact of supervision on learning.
2.32   Learning Assessment and Education Information Systems. In 1993, the MOE
conducted a national learning assessment at the end of Grade 6 with the assistance of the
French Cooperation 7.  The detailed results have been used in the updating of the
curriculum in 1994-95. The MOE plans to undertake bi-annual assessments starting in
1998.  Also, starting in 1992 with assistance from the French Cooperation and IDA,
MOE developed an education information system. The initial steps which have been
implemented successfully include: census of teaching and administrative staff and
development of a data base on personnel employed by the Ministry; a comprehensive
school map which includes a map for the location of each public school, a detailed
inventory of facilities (public and private), and surveys on the physical conditions of
infrastructure, equipment and materials; enrollment statistics in both public and private
schools in the country; and a set of norms which formed the basis for administrative
decisions on allocation of staff, closing and/or consolidation of existing schools and
provision of materials.
2.33   Under the PRET, these encouraging developments need to be extended with the
view to enhance institutional capacity in planning, monitoring, evaluating and informing
decisions in the key areas of learning assessment and effective use of public resources.
The project would support: (a) two national learning assessments at Grade 6 (1998 and
2000); (b) implementation of a school map process which would guide regional and local
authorities in planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating investments and school
The main conclusions are: Comorian pupils in Grade 6 achieve scores in French and math that are
generally comparable to scores that Grade 4 students in France would have achieved on similar tests -
-assuming that the curriculum are very similar between the two countries. In French, the major
weaknesses were observed in the space representation, reading of sentences and writing of short
stories. Also, results in spelling are lower than expected when the test questions are formulated
differently than in the teaching situation. In math, results are weak in geometry, measurement and
problem solving exercises. On the other hand, achievements are better than expected in activities
requiring application of a technique or use of a formula.



22
operation; and (c) production of annual performance monitoring reports (tableau de
pilotage).
2.34  The project would  finance equipment, materials, specialist services and
development costs needed for the bi-annual learning assessments, production of reports,
staff training, development of systems and procedures. and monitoring and evaluation of
the impact of these inputs on institutional capacity.
Objective 2: Improve Skilled Labor Training (estimated cost of US$1.0 million, or
14% of total base cost)
Component 2.1: Establish a Performing Vocational Training System
2.35   To address the issues facing training, the Government plans to launch a reform of
the vocational training system in line with the goals identified during the Etats Gen&raux
and in the PRET. The objective of the reform is to establish a cost-effective system to
develop the skills and qualifications needed for the labor market, including the informal
sector. The proposed system would be characterized by: (a) a light structure, with
administrative and financial autonomy; (b) an independent management under a Board of
Directors comprising representatives of the private (for the majority of seats) and public
sectors; (c) financed jointly by the public and private sector. At the end of the project, the
private sector is expected to finance 100% of the demand-driven training programs, while
the Government, with financial participation from communities and trainees, is expected
to finance modular training programs to youth and for the informal sector, particularly in
agriculture; and (d) accountable for its results through annual external audits.
2.36  The proposal for a new vocational training system was designed and agreed upon
between representatives of the Government, the Chamber of Commerce, the private
sector, and the civil society. Chart 2.2 below shows the institutional arrangements of the
proposed system. Its main functions would be to:
(a)   assess training needs and plan the evolution of the system according to
demonstrated needs;
(b)   organize and implement demand-driven training sub-projects aimed at
providing skills through modular instruction designed in close
collaboration with employers and in line with job requirements;
(c)   offer development opportunities to the informal sector through tailor-made
modular programs adapted to the conditions of the sector;
(d)   offer the youth opportunities to access skills training and to enter the labor
market;



23
(e)   prepare modular training programs and train instructors for efficient
delivery; and
(f)   coordinate the development of existing training institutions which would
be reorganized to deliver the training programs described above. Financial
and administrative autonomy would be granted to these institutions.
Figure 2-2: Vocational Training System
Office of Vocational Training (OVT)
Office de la Formation Professionnelle
Vocational Training Fund (VTF) |    Program  Development and
Instructor Training Unit
Fonds d'Appui c la Formation (FAF)             Unit6 de Programmation et
de formation des formateurs
Training needs analysis;                  Preparation of training
Financing and monitoring                   modules;
of training of contract-                Instructor training
based programs
2.37 The Office of Vocational Training (OVT) would be under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education, and managed by an independent
Board (Conseil d'Administration) with representatives from employers, the Chamber of
Commerce and the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Education and Employment.
Representatives of the private sector would be designated by employers' associations,
labor unions and the Chamber of Commerce, as well as from voluntary associations
(NGOs, village committees, etc.). The President of the OVT would be a Board member
elected among its members.
2.38  The OVT would be managed by a Director, assisted by an administrative officer.
The Director would be responsible for implementation of policies and programs approved
by the Board. Also, the Director would coordinate activities of the two administrative
units under its authority, namely the Vocational Training Fund and the Program
Development and Instructor Training Unit. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on an action program for the establishment of the Office for Vocational Training,
including the production of its legal documents, the definition of its mission and



24
objectives, the composition of its Board and the recruitment of its members, and the
appointment of its Director.
2.39  The project would support the creation of the Office of Vocational Training
(OVT). The project would finance rehabilitation of facilities to house the OVT, office
equipment, materials, specialist services and development costs for the establishment of
the Office, the development of management systems and procedures, the conduct of a
study on the financing of vocational training, the production of its reports, and the
monitoring and evaluation of the new vocational training system.
Component 2.2: Develop Competencies for Skilled Labor
2.40  To develop competencies and skills needed by the labor market in the Comoros,
the Office would promote a three-prong strategy consisting of: (a) implementation of a
demand-driven training system that can respond quickly and effectively to employer's
needs and market signals for qualified workers. This would be achieved through the
establishment of a Vocational Training Fund; (b) development of capacities to design
modular training programs in close collaboration with employers and to train instructors.
This would be achieved through the creation of a Program Development and Instructor
Training Unit in the OVT; and (c) changes in the statute, financing, management and
incentive systems of the existing training institutions. This would be achieved through a
reorganization of existing centers with a view to develop autonomous management as
well as modular programs adapted to the labor market.
2.41  Vocational Training Fund. The project would establish a Vocational Training
Fund (VTF) and make an initial contribution to its funding equivalent to US$400,000.
The Fund would address specific financial and quality issues related to reorienting the
training system to a demand-driven system. It would encourage public and private
institutions to provide relevant (e.g. market- and skill-driven) training to both the formal
and informal sectors on a competitive basis.  Similar approaches have been used
effectively to promote market and employer incentives to develop and upgrade worker
skills and production technology in other countries, notably in the Philippines, Singapore,
Kenya and Madagascar.
2.42  This component would be gender sensitive in several ways: training sub-projects
would be flexible and make provision for increasing women's productivity and revenues.
Particular attention would be paid to women's access to skills training and technology
suitable for upgrading their enterprises or cooperatives, or for bringing them to the sector.
For instance, depending on the sector, between 20 to 50 percent of entry-level skill
training would be targeted to women's entry in the sector and disadvantaged groups. In
order to sensitize female students to enter non-traditional technical fields of productive
work, this component would support outreach efforts and inclusion of gender awareness
in leadership and entrepreneurship training, and training materials development.



25
2.43  The VTF would be managed by the Director of OVT, under the authority of the
OVT Board. Training sub-projects would be executed by public and private institutions
which would compete for Fund resources under pre-defined qualification and selection
criteria.
2.44 The VTF would support the financing of a demand-driven training contract
scheme to approved public and private sector training providers on a competitive basis.
Sub-projects would be eligible for funding which: respond to relevant skill requirements,
both technical and management; are gender-sensitive; and are targeted to the poor. The
upgrading of the training capability of contractors, such as training of trainers, could also
be included in a training contract. Employers who provide on-site skill training would be
eligible to a reimbursement of up to 100 percent (within approved ceilings) for upgrading
training equipment related to skills upgrading and technology development. The contract
scheme aims to award up to 50 training contracts for various courses and services on a
competitive basis. An average of 12 sub-projects are expected to be submitted to the
Fund annually, ranging from community-based initial training for apprentices to
enterprise-based skill upgrading and advanced tailor-made courses. Training groups
would comprise 12-18 trainees each. An estimated total of 800 entrepreneurs and
employees are expected to benefit from contract training.
2.45  As a partial cost recovery strategy, beneficiaries are expected to pay minimal
training fees, similar to those currently charged by the National Horticulture Center
(Centre National Horticole) or the community-based apprentice scheme. Once the
training scheme has proven itself, flexible but competitive fee paying arrangements
would be worked out between the Chamber of Commerce, voluntary associations (for- or
not-for-profit) and the training institutions.  Contracts would specify the financial
contribution of each party (the employer, beneficiaries, the training institution and the
Fund), and reimbursement would be justified on the number of trainees trained.
However, cumulative financing for any given enterprise or institution would be possible
within reasonable limits of the indicative annual allocation (to avoid a concentration of
funds on one type of training or beneficiaries). During negotiations, agreement was
reached on a Manual of Procedures for use of the VTF.
2.46  The project would finance an initial contribution to the Vocational Training Fund,
office equipment, materials, specialist services and development costs for the
establishment of the Fund, the development of its systems and procedures, the production
of its reports, and the monitoring and evaluation of the Sub-projects.
2.47 Program Development and Instructor Training (PDIT) Unit. At the request
of the VTF, the Program Development and Instructor Training Unit would assist the
training institutions in designing modular programs and in training instructors in the
delivery of these modules. The type of training to be financed under the Fund calls for
approaches and methods that are very different from those currently promoted in supply-
driven training institutions offering academic (as opposed to vocational) qualifications.
Changes are needed not only in the upgrading or learning of new skills in job analysis,



26
determination of basic skills and competencies and training design, but also in the
management culture of the institutions responsible to prepare and deliver contract-based
training.
2.48  The project would support PDIT Unit staff development activities in the areas of
preparation of proposal, design of training programs and modules, instructor training, and
monitoring and evaluation of training. Particular attention would be given to the
assessment of skills and competencies acquired during training which are in line with job
requirements, and their impact on productivity of skilled labor and enterprises hiring
them.
2.49  The project would finance office equipment, materials, specialist services and
development costs for the establishment of the Unit, the development of its methods, the
production of its reports, and the monitoring and evaluation of its activities.
2.50  Institutional Development for the Existing Vocational Training Institutions.
For the new system to be effective, existing training institutions will have to adapt to the
demand-driven delivery of services. During the start-up phase, three centers would be
reorganized with the view to strengthen their autonomy and accountability. These are:
the ENTP, the ENAC and the CNH. Their statutes would be revised and they would be
transferred under the authority of the OVT.  A substantial part of their recurrent
expenditure would continue to be financed by public funds through an annual budget
transfer to cover salaries and operating costs of existing full-time training programs
which are expected to be reviewed in the light of experience gained through contract-
financed training. However, an increasing part of their budget would be expected to be
generated from contracts financed either under the Fund (para. 2.44) or external sources.
Investment expenditures, mostly to acquire new equipment essential to deliver contract-
based training, would be financed through the Fund and/or self-generated revenues.
Participation from the private sector, for- as well as not-for profit, would be encouraged.
2.51  Once the new structures are in place and training institutions have gained
experience in contract-based training, the OVT would conduct a study on the financing of
vocational training institutions (public and private) with the view to increase the
participation of employers in training of their employees, to assess the cost-effectiveness
of various ways of delivering training and to design public financing mechanisms to meet
the goal of the new vocational training system.
2.52  The project would support technical assistance and development costs related to
the reorganization of existing vocational training institutions and the conduct of a study
on the financing of vocational training (para. 2.51). As pointed out above (para. 2.50),
the financing of recurrent and investment expenditure is expected to be borne by the
Treasury through budgetary transfers.



27
Objective 3: Develop Effective Project Management (estimated cost of US$0.8
million, or 11% of total base cost)
2.53  In 1994, the MOE created a central unit to coordinate all projects in the education
sector, the Centre National de Gestion et d'Execution des Projets d'Education
(CNGEPE). This unit took over the responsibility for implementation of the Second
Education Project, thus integrating staff from the project implementation unit (Bureau
d'Ex&cution du Projet Education - BEPE) which had been created to coordinate
implementation of the Second Education Project. In the course of the preparation of
PRET, the CNGEPE played a key role, providing technical support and secretariat
functions to the Steering Committee in charge of the national consultations and the
preparation of the sector development plan.
2.54 To assist in implementation of the Program, the CNGEPE is expected to continue
to play a coordination role vis-a-vis the donors and the various agencies responsible for
implementation of various projects and sub-projects. In particular, it would seek co-
financing arrangements with national and international donors, coordinate the various
projects negotiated and financed under the Program, follow-up on implementation of the
Government's Program for the Reinforcement of Education and Training, and prepare
progress reports for dissemination to Government and the public.
2.55  In consultation with donors, the MOE decided to establish, as appropriate,
separate project implementation units to supervise implementation of project-financed
activities and manage the day-to-day operations. Accordingly, the project would support
the establishment of an independent Project Management Unit (PMU) which would liaise
with CNGEPE to ensure efficient coordination of activities under the PRET. The roles
and responsibilities, as well as the staffing of the PMU, are detailed in Chapter 3 on
Project Implementation. During negotiations, agreement was reached on an action
program for the establishment of a PMU under the Ministry of Education, including its
structure and its composition and the recruitment of the regional officers.
2.56  The project would support the creation of the PMU. The project would finance
rehabilitation of facilities to house the PMU, office equipment, materials, specialist
services and development costs for the establishment of the PMU, the development of
management systems and procedures, the production of its reports, and the monitoring
and evaluation of the new vocational training system.
2.57  During negotiations, agreement was reached on a detailed project implementation
schedule for the period between Appraisal and the end of 1998 including detailed Terms
of Reference for specialist services, a procurement plan for works, goods and technical
assistance services to be procured during that period, and performance indicators to be
monitored.



3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT COSTS
3.1    Summary of Project Costs. The total project cost is estimated at US$7.5 million
equivalent, including Government's (US$0.3 million) and communities' / beneficiaries'
(US$0.2 million) contributions, contingencies, and taxes on supplies procured locally.
The base cost is estimated at US$7.0 million. Total contingencies (US$0.5 million)
represent 7 percent of the base cost. Detailed project costs by year, purpose, component
and category can be found in Annex 2.
Table 3-1: Estimated Project Costs
(Expressed in US$ million)
Foreign          Local            Total
Primary Education                    2.76             1.79              4.55
Vocational Training                  0.19             0.77              0.96
Project Management                   0.57             0.22              0.79
Project Preparation                  0.71             -                 0.71
Total Base Cost                      4.23             2.78              7.01
Physical Contingencies               0.09             0.07              0.16
Price Contingencies                  0.21             0.15              0.36
Total Project Costs                  4.53             3.00              7.53
3.2    A detailed identification of the classrooms construction or rehabilitation was
processed during project preparation. Cost estimate for construction or rehabilitation are
based on the costs currently used -- including provision of sanitary facilities on the school
ground, basic equipment and furniture: US$21,250 for construction of a classroom of 40
pupils (including community participation), and an average of 60 percent of that cost for
rehabilitation.
3.3   The cost estimate for equipment and vehicles was prepared by the Government
and reviewed by the Appraisal mission. The lists were prioritized according to need and
projected student cohorts, and costed on the basis of recent catalogues.



29
3.4   The unit cost of foreign and local consultants are based on actual costs for similar
services during project preparation. Unit costs for the implementation team are based on
actual cost.
3.5   The cost estimate for training sub-projects was finalized by Government officials
during project preparation. The average cost of a sub-project is estimated at US$8,000.
The training sub-projects would be partially financed by the Training Fund (90 percent on
average) and the beneficiaries (the remaining amount, or 1 0 percent on average).
3.6   Contingencies Allowances.  Project costs include a physical contingency
allowance (US$0.2 million) equal to a 2 percent increase in the estimated costs of all
project inputs. Price contingencies are estimated on the basis of the implementation
schedule and on a price increase of 3.7 percent p.a. for local costs and 2.3 percent p.a. for
foreign costs. Total price contingencies represent 5 percent of the base line cost and
physical contingencies.
3.7   Foreign Exchange Costs. The direct and indirect foreign exchange component
of US$4.5 million, or 60 percent of total estimated project cost, was estimated as follows
for each type of expenditure: (a) civil works, US$1.8 million; (b) equipment and vehicles,
US$0.8 million; (c) textbooks and instructional materials, US$0.6 million; (d) consultant
services and training, US$0.6 million; (e) training fund, US$0.3 million; and (f)
incremental operating costs, US$0.4 million.
3.8   Taxes. Project costs include local and indirect taxes on supplies procured locally,
which are estimated to be about US$0.5 million equivalent.  Direct imports and
consultant fees will be exempt from tax and duties.
3.9   Incremental Recurrent Costs. During Negotiations, agreement was reached on
annual counterpart financing requirements and annual budget provisions sufficient to
cover additional recurrent costs resulting from the project. The financial impact of the
project will be carefully examined during annual reviews.
3.10  Project Financing. The proposed ITF Credit of US$7.0 million will finance 100
percent of foreign costs, 95 percent of local costs for civil works, equipment, textbooks
and instructional materials, and 90 percent for operating costs, for an aggregate of about
93 percent of total project costs.
3.11   During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following policies and
measures which would be confirmed in a Letter of Development Policy to be submitted
to IDA before Board presentation:
(a)   provision of adequate budgetary support for non-salary expenditures and
the part which would be delegated to local School Committees. The initial
budget would be no less than 120 million FC in 1997 and transferred to
the schools in time for the start of the 1997-98 academic year (by end of
October 1997 at the latest). The level of the budgetary support for



30
subsequent years would be determined annually in the context of the
Review of Public Expenditure in the sector;
(b)   an action program, including a timetable and performance indicators, on
the recruitment of approximately 100 teachers, in accordance with the
agreed upon numbers in the civil service reform program;
(c)   the regular payment of salaries to teachers and staff in MOE;
(d)   the enforcement of the prescribed number of school days (160) during the
academic year; and
(e)   a freeze on the replacement of managerial and supervisory staff in existing
Directorates, Services or schools until detailed job descriptions and
profiles have been approved by MOE and selection procedures modified to
ensure application of the minimum basic requirements for each job and
transparency in the process of recruitment.
B. PROCUREMENT
3.12  All Bank-financed procurement of goods and services under the Project will be in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. The Interim Trust Fund eligibility rules will apply.
Table I below summarizes the project elements as well as their estimated costs and
proposed methods of procurement.  The Borrower's procurement regulations and
procedures have been reviewed by IDA. IDA standard bidding documents will continue
to be systematically used for local procurement. ICB procurement will use the Bank's
relevant Standard Bidding Documents. Selection of consulting firms will be done on the
basis of the Bank's standard letter of invitation and form of contract. Under the project,
procurement procedures will be undertaken as summarized in Table 3.2 below and
described in the following paragraphs. The aggregate amounts provided include taxes
and duties.



31
Table 3-2: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(Expressed in US$ million, including taxes and duties) a/ b/
Categories                                ICB         NCB         Other      TOTAL
1. Civil Works                                        .090       2.670       2.760
-          (.085)      (2.335)     (2.420)
2. Equipment and Vehicles                 0.400       0.600       0.100       1.100
(0.400)    (0.550)     (0.090)     (1.040)
3. Textbooks and Instructional Materials  0.600       -           0.100      0.700
(0.600)    -           (0.090)     (0.690)
4. Consultant Services                    -           -           0.700       0.700
-  -       (0.700)     (0.700)
5. Training                               -           -           0.400      0.400
-          -           (0.400)     (0.400)
6. Operating Costs                        -           -           1.160       1.160
-          -           (1.040)     (1.040)
7. PPF                                    -           -           0.710      0.710
__________   __________    (0.710)  (0.710)
TOTAL                                     1.000       0.690       5.840       7.530
(1.000)    (0.635)     (5.365)     (7.000)
Notes:
a. Slight differences in amounts may occur due to rounding of figures.
b. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA.
3.13   Civil Works. Civil works include: (a) construction and rehabilitation of primary
classrooms and/or schools in deprived areas, with the participation of local communities
(US$2.67 million equivalent) (b) rehabilitation of an existing building for the MOE's
PMU (US$50,000) and (c) rehabilitation of an existing building for the OVT
(US$40,000). Based on experience gained during implementation of the PHRD project,
in particular its community development fund (FADC), it is anticipated that
approximately 40 percent of civil works for construction and rehabilitation of primary
schools (or US$1.0 million equivalent) will be carried out by local communities
according to procedures specified in the Manual of Procedures agreed by IDA. The
remaining 60 percent of works (or US$1.7 million equivalent, each estimated to cost
US$30,000 or less) will be carried out by small enterprises that already exist in the
Comoros, and procured under lump-sum, fixed-priced contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. Civil works for rehabilitation of PMU and OVT (estimated to cost about
US$90,000) would be procured under contracts awarded under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures. It is expected that procurement for all civil works will be
managed by the PMU with the assistance of private firms to be selected by the PMU
through procedures acceptable to IDA. All works will be monitored by the contracted
private firm(s). Architectural designs will use the norms currently applied in the
Comoros and agreed by IDA.
3.14 Equipment and Vehicles. The equipment and vehicles financed by the project
(US$1.1 million equivalent) include: (a) office equipment and furniture, and vehicles



32
(US$0.44 million); and (b) equipment and furniture for classrooms (US$0.66 million).
To the extent possible, goods will be grouped into packages of US$100,000 or more, and
procured through ICB in accordance with Bank procurement procedures (January 1995).
Goods which cannot be grouped into these packages would be grouped to the extent
possible in packages of US$20,000 or more per contract to be procured through NCB,
provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$600,000.
Goods that cannot be grouped into packages of US$20,000 would be procured through
national shopping, based on quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers,
provided the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$100,000.
3.15  Textbooks and Instructional Materials. Textbooks and instructional materials
(US$600,000) will be procured through ICB. The contracts will be in conformity with
standard Bank documents. Reference books and library books (US$100,000) estimated
to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$100,000 would be procured through international shopping, and contracts will
be in conformity with standard Bank documents. Distribution of textbooks and materials
to schools will be procured through NCB.
3.16  Consultants Services and Training. The project will finance approximately 54
person-months of foreign consultant services and 13 person-months of local consultant
services for management, procurement, auditing and various sectoral and technical
services, including training, totaling the aggregate amount of US$700,000 equivalent.
Consultants' services would be procured in accordance with the provision of the
Guidelines. Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
published by the Bank in January 1997.  Annex 3 provides a detailed plan for
consultancies and training activities financed under the project.
3.17 Training Fund. The Training Fund of US$0.4 million will finance about 90
percent of the costs of training sub-projects including: (a) identification, preparation,
supervision and evaluation; (b) purchase of equipment and instructional materials; and (c)
training of trainers. Implementation and financing of each sub-project will be governed
by a tripartite contract between OVT, the beneficiary(ies) and the institution providing
training, according to procurement procedures specified in the Manual of Procedures
agreed by IDA.
3.18 Review by IDA. The PMU will ensure that Bank guidelines are followed for
procurement of goods and services, and will maintain procurement documents and
contracts required for ex-post reviews. During project execution, civil works contracts
and for packages of goods above the threshold of US$50,000 will be subject to IDA's
prior review. The threshold for prior review of consultant services will be US$50.000 for
contracts with consulting firms, and US$25,000 for contracts with individual consultants.
All other contracts will be subject to selective post review during the supervision
missions. Contracts for training sub-projects financed by the Training Fund amounting to
US$15,000 or more, as well as the first three applications to be submitted by OVT for
approval, irrespective of amounts involved, will be subject to prior review by IDA.



33
3.19 Procurement Schedule. Based on implementation schedules in Annexes 3 and 4,
procurement arrangements and the procurement schedule will be prepared for each year,
and the first year program will be prepared before effectiveness.
C. DISBURSEMENTS, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
3.20   Disbursements will be in accordance with guidelines set out in the Disbursement
Handbook. The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period, by end of
June 2002, and the Credit is expected to be closed by December 31, 2002. The proposed
allocation of the Credit is shown in Table 2. All applications to withdraw proceeds from
the Credit will be fully documented, except for expenditures for training, recurrent costs,
and for contracts with a value of US$50,000 (US$25,000 for individual consultants) or
less for goods and services for which reimbursement may be made against certified
statements of expenditures (SOEs).  The PMU  will be responsible for preparing
withdrawal applications and SOEs to be submitted to IDA, and will indicate on the SOEs
the nature and origin of any goods and the payment date. These will be retained along
with all other supporting documentation for review by Bank supervision missions and
independent auditors.
Table 3-3: Withdrawal of Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Categories                      Amount of the Credit Allocated  |% of Expenditures to be financed
AL(u US$ equivalent)
1. Civil Works                           2,300,000           100% of foreign expenditures
95% of local expenditures
2. Equipment and Vehicles                1,000,000           100% of foreign expenditures
95% of local expenditures
3. Textbooks and Instructional            650,000            100% of foreign expenditures
Materials                                                    95% of local expenditures
4. Consultant Services and Training       650,000            100%
5. Training Fund                          400,000            100% of grants disbursed
6. Operating Costs                        800,000            90%
7. Refinancing of PPF                     710,000            Amount due
8. Unallocated                            490,000
Total                                    7,000,000
3.21   Special Accounts. To ensure that funds will be available when needed, two
Special Accounts (SA) in US$ will be established in a local commercial bank under
conditions applicable to IDA. One, with an initial deposit of US$350,000, will be in the
name of the PMU, and the other, with an initial deposit of US$150.000, will be in the
name of OVT. The amounts have been estimated to cover about four months of
expenditures, and would be withdrawn form the Credit account after effectiveness. PMU



34
and OVT would have the right to draw directly on these accounts for project expenditures
without prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Two signatures would be required for
each payment, from among three people designated by the Ministry of Finance from the
staffs of each PMU and OVT on the nomination of the agency concerned. The Special
Accounts would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence, provided to IDA
by PMU and OVT, of payments made from the accounts for goods and services required
for the project that are eligible for financing under the Credit. All supporting documents
will be retained by PMU and OVT, and made available for review by periodic Bank
supervision missions and external auditors.
3.22 Project Accounts. The Government will open a project account in a local
commercial bank, and pay into it its budgeted contribution to the project estimated for
1998 equivalent of about FC27 million. It will open two advance accounts in local
currency, operated by PMU and OVT, with initial deposits from the project account
equivalent to FC10 million and FC3 million respectively, to cover the Government's
contribution to project expenditures. Evidence of the initial deposits is a condition of
credit effectiveness. Thereafter, the Government will deposit each semester an amount
equal to the amount of the initial deposit into each of the Project accounts. The advance
accounts will be replenished regularly from the project account on the basis of
appropriate evidence of payment for the purpose of the project.
3.23  Auditing. Computerized accounting systems will be developed and implemented
prior to project effectiveness in the PMU and the OVT. PMU and OVT will maintain
separate accounts for all project activities, in conformity with international accounting
practices, to record all project expenditures, commitments and reimbursements. The
appointment of an independent auditor under a contract acceptable to IDA will be a
condition of effectiveness. The auditor's report will also include a separate opinion with
respect to SOEs, the Special Accounts and a statement of the adequacy or otherwise of
the accounting system and internal audit controls. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail, will be
submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year. Also, detailed terms
of reference for the recruitment of an auditor who would assist the Project Management
Unit and the Office for Vocational Training in setting appropriate project accounts
accounting procedures and who would audit the use of funds under the PPF were
reviewed and agreed upon.
3.24  Reports.  The PMU manager and OVT Director will be responsible for
submitting to IDA: (a) quarterly reports that will include project monitoring based on
agreed monitoring indicators (input and outcome) to be agreed upon at negotiations, a
summary of progress in procurement, and a definition of a work program with
monitorable outputs for the following three-month period; (b) periodic evaluation of the
training and skills of the technical assistance provided; (c) a report on the mid-term
evaluation of project progress; and (d) an Implementation Completion Report no later
than six months after the Closing Date of the Credit. During negotiations, an agreement
was reached on the content and format of annual reviews of work programs, including



35
assessment of progress on performance indicators and preparation of detailed action plans
for the following period. Levels of budgetary resources, financial commitments and
disbursements from the Credit would be revised annually, and agreements would be
sought on adequate provisions of local funds (through the country's annual budget,
financing from local communities or participation of beneficiaries).
D. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
3.25  In line with strategic orientations which prioritize the empowerment of school
heads, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, partnership with community and
employers, the management of the project will be light, but effective. It will be oriented
towards the achievement of the goals of the Program for the Reinforcement of Education
and Training, the achievement of measurable objectives and the evaluation of
performance.
3.26  In order to improve access to quality primary education and to strengthen the
management of the education system, a Project Management Unit will have the task of:
(a) directing local and regional teams which will negotiate contracts of activities with
institutions and with parent-teacher associations; (b) coordinating the implementation of
programs of activities in close collaboration with the relevant local authorities; and (c)
measuring the achievement of defined objectives and evaluating the impact of measures
and actions which have been introduced on learning outcomes and the enrollment of
students.
3.27  The PMU would be placed under the authority of the Minister of Education. It
would liaise with the National Center for the Management and Implementation of
Education Projects (CNGEPE) to ensure efficient coordination of programs and projects
supporting the Government's PRET. Staff of the PMU would be hired under contract by
means of a transparent selection process and remunerated under the Credit: (a) a Project
Coordinator whose office will be located in Moroni; (b) a financial manager responsible
for keeping the books of the project and for managing the Credit; (c) a procurement
specialist responsible for the management of purchases and contracts of goods, works and
services; and (d) three regional coordinators, one officer per island, who will be
responsible for planning, coordinating, monitoring and the control of activities financed
under the Credit. Professional services required for specific operations will form the
object of separate contracts of employment, negotiated locally in accordance with
detailed terms of reference.
3.28  The management of activities will be supported by operational terms of reference
in contracts approved by the PMU. So as to reduce the cost of management, the project
will use existing resources in the Comoros in the form of contracts of services, for
example:



36
(a)   for the rehabilitation and construction of classrooms, the PMU will engage
the services of engineering firms for the preparation of bidding documents,
the evaluation of bids and the supervision of work;
(b)   school furniture and educational materials will be procured by the central
office of the PMU in Grande Comore or by regional offices through
bidding procedures or through local consultation in accordance with Bank
procedures;
(c)   for quality inputs in education specified in the school-based contracts and
for the services of the MOE, each contract will specify outputs and
indicators of performance. Reimbursement of cost incurred will be in
accordance with the amounts indicated in the contract on the basis of
verification of observed results and supporting documentation.  For
example, the implementation of management tools in public primary
schools, the introduction of new educational methods and training to use
educational aids will be programmed in each school and approved by the
School Committee before submission to the PMU. Actual expenditure for
these activities and the respective contributions of the community, the
parent-teacher association and the school staff will be indicated in the plan
of action and will be reimbursed subject to confirmation of the services
rendered.
3.29 The programming of activities of the PMU will be submitted to the Bank for
review on October 31 of each year, at the latest. The proposed annual work plans and
budget for the next fiscal year will include details of proposed budgetary allocations and
disbursement estimates, and proposed procurement activities. Regional programming
will cover a horizon of two school years, namely the current year and the next, thus
permitting the coordination of rehabilitation operations and the provision of educational
materials with the beginning of the school year in September. Programming will
include: (a) a list of contracts and commitments negotiated with schools and the services
of the MOE; (b) a budget for current operations and for those operations which will begin
in the course of the school tern, accompanied by disbursement estimates; (c) projected
commitments and expenditures which shall be paid in the course of the 18-month period
following the commencement of the period indicated; and (d) a detailed plan of expected
results of measurable outputs which can be verified, as well as the evaluation to be
undertaken.
3.30 The PMU will apply the regulations of the Project Implementation Manual
approved by the Bank. This manual will include:
(a)   bidding procedures for rehabilitation work and the construction of
classrooms;
(b)   procedures for the procurement of school furniture, equipment,
educational materials and school supplies;



37
(c)   model contracts between the school management committees and the
PMU. These contracts will specify the commitments and responsibilities
of each party, the nature of works and services, the objectives, indicators
of performance, the contribution of each party, schedule of payment and
the sanctions to be applied in the case of failure to meet the terms of
contract;
(d)   forms for the monitoring of the advancement of activities, for account
keeping and for the measuring of expected results and the certification of
services;
(e)   tools for the evaluation of results, including a list of indicators of
performance of the system, the results of evaluation of the learning
achievements of students in the schools which have benefited from
support by the project, and observations by officers of the PMU.
E. PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
3.31  Project Monitoring. The PMU and the OVT will send IDA quarterly reports on
project progress that will include: (a) a summary statement on the status of execution of
each project activity; and (b) a table showing compliance with project covenants, and
progress in implementing agreed policy objectives. During Appraisal, an agreement was
reached on establishment of a management information system to enable the MOE to
track annual monitoring indicators; the establishment of the management information
system will be a condition of effectiveness.
3.32  Monitoring will be important to measure the effects of the project on primary
education and vocational training, and on the system-wide effects of the program's
(PRET) proposed policy actions. Indicators will include: enrollment and pass rates;
attendance to school; resource mobilization levels and cost recovery rates; teaching staff
performance; school supervision performance; and indicators showing the state of
maintenance of schools. Annex 5 provides a list of outcomes and performance indicators
to be agreed during negotiations.
3.33  Supervision.  The project will not require special supervision arrangements
except during the start-up phase. Supervision missions will be planned to coincide with
important implementation milestones. The first full IDA mission will take the form of a
project launch workshop, continuing and expanding the working format developed with
MOE and the CNGEPE during the project preparation and appraisal process. The
workshop will confirm annual implementation targets, review monitoring procedures and
review the Procedure Manuals.



38
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
3.34  The project has been classified as C ("No appreciable environment impact"). The
environmental impact of the proposed project is expected to be neutral. There would be
environmental disruptions associated with the construction of small primary schools.
However, the project would improve the sanitary environment of about 120 existing
schools, which lack basic sanitary facilities, and provide such basic facilities for all new
construction. The project will finance teaching-learning materials and teacher training to
incorporate environmental education in the existing curriculum at primary level. Also,
under the Vocational Training Fund, training sub-projects could be approved for training
workers in the field of environmental protection.
G. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
3.35  The economic analysis of the project includes: (a) an assessment of potential
savings that would be generated from an improvement in internal efficiency at primary
level; (b) an examination of equity issues including distribution of public spending on
education, and geographic, gender and income disparities; (c) an analysis of the
consistency of the education sector budget with the overall macroeconomic framework;
and (d) an examination of the rationale for public intervention in vocational training and
the rate of return associated with vocational training.
3.36  Internal Efficiency.  In a context of severely constrained public resources,
savings generated through improvement of internal efficiency can be substantial. Based
on 1993-94 data, computation of student flows shows that it takes on average 4.9 times
longer to produce a primary-school graduate in the Comoros than in a system with no
repetition or dropouts. As a result of measures to be implemented during the project, it is
expected that reductions in the drop-out and repetition rates would: (a) reduce the average
number of student-years to produce a graduate from 29.6 to 8.1; (b) generate savings up
to 350,000 FC per graduate; and (c) increase the number of children completing Grade 4
by 88 percent (or from 48 percent to 90 percent of the cohort completing Grade 4).
3.37  Equity. The Gini coefficient associated with the distribution of public spending
on education is currently 0.46. Analysis shows that et ceteris paribus: (a) increasing
primary enrollment ratio and (b) increasing unit spending in primary education would
reduce the Gini coefficient significantly. For example, a one-point increase in primary
enrollment ratio reduces the Gini coefficient by about 2 percent, while an increase in unit
spending of 5,000 FC reduces the Gini coefficient by about 1.3 percent. The analysis has
also permitted to identify underserved districts for targeted intervention, on the basis of
gross and net enrollment ratios, new entrants in Grade 1 and gender disparities.
3.38  Sustainability.  In terms of financial sustainability, the investments planned
under this project will require that the Government undertake a series of measures to
increase public revenues, to allocate sufficient levels of public resources to education, and
to rationalize expenditures in the sector. During appraisal, agreement was reached on: (a)



39
a sustainable Public Expenditure Program (both investment and recurrent) for the period
1997-1999; and (b) the level and composition of the recurrent budget for salary and non-
salary expenditures. Proposals for alternative investment and recurrent budgets were
discussed with Government in the context of a joint Bank/IMF mission that visited the
Comoros in January/February 1997. These proposals are described in Section C of Annex
6.
3.39 Vocational Training. While there is a need for government to reassess its role as
provider and principal financier of technical education, government intervention is still
desirable for two reasons. First, there are acute coordination problems in the Comoros.
Most enterprises are too small to individually incur the overhead costs of training
programs, and since the cost of coordinating with other enterprises in the sector is high,
the demand for training is likely to be sub-optimal. By acting as coordinator and
facilitator, the Government can usefully contribute to the well-functioning training
system. Second, there are externalities associated with some vocational training
schemes that are not captured by the beneficiaries of the training. There is a risk that
private demand for training be sub-optimal from a social viewpoint. The proposed
Vocational Training Fund will discriminate between the different training schemes. In
areas where there is a presumption that benefits are captured by the beneficiaries, the
Fund's contribution will be limited to support government's role of facilitator and
coordinator. In areas where there are large external benefits, the Fund might subsidize
part of the training scheme. Thus, the Fund would be used as an instrument to modulate
the form of government intervention and the extent of public financial involvement.
Based on a quick survey conducted during project preparation, the rate of return of
vocational training is estimated at 27 percent.
3.40  Consistency with CAS.  The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the
Comoros calls for: enhanced competitiveness for sustained growth; human capital
development, poverty reduction, and population growth control; and protection of the
environment.  In the education sector, the CAS objectives are to: (a) protect real
expenditures in the sector; (b) improve efficiency of staff through effective deployment
and control at school level; and (c) improve participation in quality education, especially
for girls, and upgrade competencies of workers in a changing environment (export-led
and private-sector based economic development).
3.41  The CAS also supports broadening the support base for, and building of greater
local ownership of development operations. The CAS proposes that the Third Education
Project place greater management and financial responsibility and accountability at the
school level than in the past.



4. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
4.1   The benefits would include improved access to quality basic education especially
for the poor, improved learning and academic achievement at primary level, increased
enrollments and internal efficiency. Also, the quality of school-level infrastructures and
teaching/learning processes would be improved using collaborative mechanisms and
improved management systems in MOE. Apprentices and workers would improve their
qualifications and increase their productivity in the workplace. The establishment of a
competitive, demand-driven training system based on training sub-projects designed
jointly between employers and trainers would improve internal and external efficiency of
the training system.
B. RiSKS
4.2   There are three risks foreseen at this point.  First, the recently appointed
Government may not be committed to put the structural adjustment program back on
track and provide appropriate level of public resources in the sector. The 1992-94
implementation record on structural reform indicates that a sound macro-economic
framework can be worked out. An agreement with the IMF and the Bank on an agenda
for further structural reforms would mitigate that risk. Second, MOE's capacity to follow
through on commitments and the local communities' ability to take responsibility on
school management remains largely untested. Third, teacher unions may continue to
disrupt operation of the public education system, especially if salaries are not paid on
time and if vacant positions are not filled quickly. To minimize these risks, the Bank will
seek endorsement of stakeholders to achieve the goals, policies, orientations and action
plans outlined in the PRET. To this end, IEC campaigns and activities aimed at
supporting the change process would be organized throughout 1997 to build consensus in
the footsteps of the consultative process initiated in 1994 during the Etats Generaux de
l'education.



5. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND
RECOMMENDATION
5.1   During Appraisal, agreements were reached on:
(a)   the Program for the Reinforcement of Education and Training systems,
including its major goals, objectives, priorities, strategies and action plans
(para. 2.1);
(b)   an action program for the establishment of a Project Management Unit
under the Ministry of Education, including its structure and its
composition and the recruitment of the regional officers (para. 2.55);
(c)   an action program for the establishment of School Committees, including
the production of a standard legal document, the definition of their
mission, composition, roles and responsibilities, and the establishment of
such Committees on an experimental basis (para. 2.10); and
(d)   a sustainable Public Expenditure Program (both investment and recurrent)
for the period 1997-1999; and the level and composition of the recurrent
budget for salary and non-salary expenditures (para. 3.38).
5.2  In addition, agreements were reached on the following policies and measures
which were incorporated in a Letter of Development Policy to be submitted to IDA
before Negotiations (para. 3.11):
(a)   provision of adequate budgetary support for non-salary expenditures and
the part which would be delegated to local School Committees. The initial
budget would be no less than 100 million FC in 1997 and transferred to
the schools in time for the start of the 1997-98 academic year (by end of
October 1997 at the latest). The level of the budgetary support for
subsequent years would be determined annually in the context of the
Review of Public Expenditure in the sector;
(b)   an action program, including a timetable and performance indicators, on
the recruitment of approximately 100 teachers, in accordance with the
agreed upon numbers in the civil service reform program;
(c)   the regular payment of salaries to teachers and staff in MOE;
(d)   the enforcement of the prescribed number of school days (160) during the
academic year; and



42
(e)   a freeze on the replacement of managerial and supervisory staff in existing
Directorates, Services or schools until detailed job descriptions and
profiles have been approved by MOE and selection procedures modified to
ensure application of the minimum basic requirements for each job and
transparency in the process of recruitment.
5.3   During Negotiations, agreements were reached on:
(a)   a Letter of Development Policy for the education and training sector. The
letter would refer to the detailed action plans outlined in the PRET (para.
3.1 1);
(b)   a detailed project implementation schedule for the period between
Appraisal and the end of 1998 including detailed Terms of Reference for
specialist services, a procurement plan for works, goods and technical
assistance services to be procured during that period, and performance
indicators to be monitored (para. 2.57);
(c)   detailed terms of reference for the recruitment of an auditor who would
assist the Project Management Unit and the Office for Vocational Training
in setting appropriate project accounts accounting procedures and who
would audit the use of funds under the PPF (para. 3.23);
(d)   the establishment of a management information system to enable the MOE
to track annual monitoring indicators (para. 3.31 );
(e)   a Project Implementation Manual describing an action program for the
establishment of School Committees, including the production of a
standard legal document, the definition of their mission, composition,
roles and responsibilities, and the establishment of such Committees on an
experimental basis (para 2. 10);
(f)   an action program for the establishment of the Office for Vocational
Training, including the production of its legal documents, the definition of
its mission and objectives, the composition of its Board and the
recruitment of its members, and the appointment of its Director (para.
2.38);
(g)   an action program for the establishment of a Fund for Vocational Training,
including the production of the Manual of Procedures (para. 2.45);
(h)   a Manual of Procedures for the Vocational Training Fund, including
preparation and submission of a request for the financing of a sub-project,
eligibility criteria, selection and approval of sub-projects, contract between
the Fund, the sponsor(s) and the training institution(s) in charge of



43
delivering training, monitoring, control and evaluation of activities (para.
2.45);
(i)   the proposed investment and recurrent budget for the first year of the
project as well as for the subsequent two years as part of the rolling Public
Expenditure Program in the sector, including sufficient provisions for
salaries of staff, administrative expenditures, budget transfers to schools
and key non-salary expenditures for supervision, training, school mapping
and learning assessment (para. 3.24);
(j)   further measures to be introduced in 1997. These include provision of
budgetary resources to ensure: (a) a minimum of two visits of the district
Inspectorate to each primary school; (b) a minimum of 10 working days of
in-service training per year, to be organized at the school and district
levels; (c) a provision of at least 600 FC (US$1.70) per pupil, per annum,
to purchase teaching-learning materials; and (d) two school census per
academic year (November and June) to monitor the performance of the
education and training system (para. 1.20);
(k)   the content and format of annual reviews of work programs, including
assessment of progress on performance indicators and preparation of
detailed action plans for the following period.  Levels of budgetary
resources, financial commitments and disbursements from the Credit
would be revised annually, and agreements would be sought on adequate
provisions of local funds (through the country's annual budget, financing
from local communities or participation of beneficiaries) (para. 3.24); and
(1)    on  annual counterpart financing  requirements and  annual budget
provisions sufficient to cover additional recurrent costs resulting from the
project (para. 3.9).
5.4   The following actions are specified as conditions for Board presentation:
(a)   establishment of the Office for Vocational Training and the Vocational
Training Fund (paras. 2.38 and 2.45); and
(b)   transmission of a Letter of Sector Development Policy (para. 2.1).
5.5   The following action(s) are specified as conditions for Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   appointment of an independent auditor under a contract acceptable to IDA
(para. 3.23).
(b)   approval by the Administrator and adoption by the Borrower of the Project
Implementation Manual and Procedures Manual (Section 7.01 (a) of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA));



44
(c)   establishment by the Borrower of an adequate financial management and
accounting system, and a management information system to monitor
performance indicators (Section 7.01 (b) of the DCA);
(d)   OVT has been duly established, and the Convention signed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and OVT (Section 7.01 (c) of the DCA);
(e)   the Project Accounts have been duly opened, and the amounts of the initial
deposits deposited therein (Section 7.01 (d) of the DCA); and
(f)   the Coordinator of the PMU and OVT Director have been duly recruited
(Section 7.01 (e) of the DCA).
5.6   With the above assurances and conditions, the Project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 5.1 million.



45
Staff Appraisal Report                                                Annex 1
Third Education Project                                                 Page I
Summary description of the end-of-cycle profile
of students at the completion of primary education
At the completion of primary education, the student is able to:
* Read and write fluently in French and Arabic
* Communicate in both languages
* Use the knowledge acquired to solve everyday problems
*  Be aware of and master his/her natural, social and economic environment
 Achieve social integration
* Be conversant with certain civic duties and tenets of Islam
* Observe certain hygiene practices and basic elements of sex education
* Be open to the outside world
* Be interested in manual work
* Continue on to secondary school



46
Staff Appraisal Report                                             Annex I
Third Education Project                                             Page 2
Summary description of the priority factors affecting
the quality of basic education
* A qualified and competent school director with good managerial skills
* A qualified, competent and motivated teacher
* An appropriate and attractive school infrastructure
* Varied, adequate and sufficient teaching-learning materials
* Responsible and mutually supportive communities and State
* Appropriate interactive teaching-learning methods
3 Adequate pedagogical support



47
Staff Appraisal Report                                               Annex I
Third Education Project                                               Page 3
Factor: A qualified and competent school director with good managerial skills
Definitions: The school director is qualified, competent, with good managerial skills
when:
1. He/She has benefited from pre-school and school-based training
2. He/She is an experienced teacher
3. He/She has good personnel, material and financial management
skills
4. He/She is dedicated and available for discussion with colleagues
and members of the community
Requirements:                  Indicators:
1. Training:             He/She holds the BEPC or the BAC
He/She holds the CAE or the CAP
He/She benefits from training (6 days per year) in school
administration
2. Experience:           He/She has been a teacher for at least 5 years
3. Resource management:   He/She keeps: a file for each student; a matriculation roster
for each teacher; an attendance register for the students and
for the staff (management and teaching); a student report
with three evaluations per year.
He/She maintains: an annual school calendar (160 days); an
account book in which current expenditures are noted; an
annual school report; the minutes of the School Committee
meetings; an annual report of inspection visits; reports of
the development activities for the teaching staff, minutes of
staff meetings; school rules and regulations.
He/She possesses: a set of administrative circulars; an
observation logbook; an inventory of furniture, equipment
and teaching-learning materials.
4. Dedication and        Presence in school from 6:30 to 12:15 and from 13:15 to
Availability:             17:45. Frequent discussions with the community, the
parents, the students and the teachers. Ensures that good
care is taken of the school infrastructures.



48
Staff Appraisal Report                                               Annex I
Third Education Project                                               Page 4
Factor: Qualified, competent and motivated teacher
Definitions: The teacher is qualified, competent and motivated when:
1. He/She holds the required diplomas and masters the language of
instruction
2. He/She is capable of teaching all the subjects at all grades in an
efficient way
3. He/She benefits from pedagogic and material support
4. His/Her rights are observed
Requirements:                  Indicators:
1. Required diploma and    Holds at least the BEPC or the BAC
mastery of language of
instruction
Holds at least the CAE or the CAP
Expresses himself/herself fluently
2. Efficient teaching    He/She masters all the subjects; he/she is comfortable using
the pedagogic tools; most students succeed in their exams;
3. Pedagogic and material  He/She benefits from 15 days training per year;
support
He/She benefits from at least one inspection visit per year,
and one visit from the school director every day.
He/She reports to the School Committee every two months.
The school and the community provide the
necessary materials for him/her to conduct his/her teaching.
4. Rights observed       Salaries paid on the 25th of every month.
Training per-diems are paid.
He/She is officially registered with the Civil Service the
year following the training.
He/She appears on the promotion roster of the Civil
Service every two years.



49
Staff Appraisal Report                                               Annex 1
Third Education Project                                               Page 5
Factor: An appropriate and attractive school infrastructure
Definitions: Infrastructure is appropriate and attractive when the school:
1. has buildings that meet requirements and official norms
2. is located upon pleasant premises that encourage attendance
Requirements:                  Indicators:
1. Buildings meet        There is a school building design and a legal status
architectural norms    document of the land site.
T-here is one classroom for every two sections with, each
classroom of about 40 students being sized 7 x 6x 3m; with
one 2 x 1,60 m door; four 1,60 x 1,20m windows; 20 two-
seat student desks/benches; one teacher's desk and a chair;
one storage locker; one fixed and one mobile blackboard;
one mobile with duster; one notice board.
Classrooms with concrete roof or ceilings and painted, and
with concrete floor. Classrooms fitted with electricity (2
light bulbs per classroom). A school director's 3 x 3 x 3m
office with a writing desk with two drawers; two chairs; a
typing machine; one clock; a secretary's and a caretaker's
office. A 4 x 3 x 3m storage area.
2. Pleasant and stimulating  Fence made of brick, wire netting, or local materials with
environment           two entrances: one for people and one for vehicles
School 200m away from town and 50m away from road.
Access to school by roads.
At least one latrine for the teachers, one for girls and one
for boys (double the number for schools of more than 500
students).
Latrines in a well-ventilated and well-locked room.
Cleaning of the latrines by one class (Grade 2 onwards)
each Friday.
One to four clean water fountains.
A functioning disposal system for used waters.
Sports equipment: 6 footballs, 6 basketballs, 6 handballs, 6
volleyballs; 1 javelin; 1 set of shot-puts; 2 exercise mats; 2
sets of shorts and sports shoes; one life-buoy.
Well-kept gardens.



50
Staff Appraisal Report                                                 Annex I
Third Education Project                                                  Page 6
Factor: Varied, adequate and sufficient teaching-learning materials
Definitions: The teaching-learning materials are varied, adequate and sufficient when:
1. There are textbooks for each subject
2. The materials are adapted to the curriculum and relevant to the local
context
3. Each pupil and each teacher can wield the appropriate teaching-
learning materials
Requirements:                   Indicators:
1. Sufficient materials   One textbook per student for every subject.
Each teacher has the corresponding guidebooks
Each student has a pencil, a pen, a slate, two exercise-
books in Grade 1 and seven in Grades 2 to 6.
Each class has one dictionary for every 8 pupils (Grades 2
to 6), and the school has an additional two for the teachers.
Each class possesses one ruler, one blackboard, one T-
square, one protractor, and one pair of dividers.
Each school has one pair of Roberval scales; one double-
decameter; one surveyor's chain; mural maps of which that
of the Comoros.
In each school, there is gardening material (10 spades; 2
watering cans; 10 rakes; one wheelbarrow).
Sports equipment: 2 footballs; 2 volleyballs.
Materials for classroom activities: scissors, paper, glue, etc.
2. Adapted materials      Adapted to the grade, to the curriculum and to the local
context.
The content of the textbooks mirrors the environment.
3. Varied materials       The materials allow group or individual activities.
The teacher uses different teaching-learning supports that
the pupils can wield.



51
Staff Appraisal Report                                             Annex 1
Third Education Project                                              Page 7
Factor: Responsible and mutually supportive communities and State
Definitions: The communities and the State are responsible and mutually supportive
when:
1. They participate in all school activities
2. They carry out their (contractual) obligations according to schedule
3. They encourage the participation of other partners
Requirements:                  Indicators:
1. Participation in school-   Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of
related activities    classrooms.
Purchase school equipment
Constitute a School Committee
2. Carrying out          Activities are evaluated.
engagements           Strict application of the agreed-upon schedule.
Minutes of monthly meetings are kept.
3. Encouraging the       Presence of community / State organizations /
participation of other    representatives at school.
partners



52
Staff Appraisal Report                                               Annex 1
Third Education Project                                                Page 8
Factor: Appropriate interactive teaching-learning methods
Definitions: The method is interactive and appropriate when:
1. The pupil has a self-sustained learning/discovering ability.
2. It encourages pupil participation in the learning process.
3. The teacher acts as organizer and counselor.
Requirements:                   Indicators:
1. Discovery by the pupil   The teacher associates the pupils in the search of new
knowledge by placing them in research situations.
2. Pupil participation    The pupil volunteers questions and answers.
The pupil is actively involved in class activities
3. Organizer and Counselor  The teacher prompts questions from and the curiosity of
the pupils



53
Staff Appraisal Report                                               Annex 1
Third Education Project                                               Page 9
Factor: Adequate pedagogical support
Definitions: Pedagogical support is adequate when:
1. The pedagogical advisors meet regularly with teachers.
2. An evaluation of the pedagogical support is carried out
3. Test results improve
Requirements:                  Indicators:
1. Regular intervention of   The pedagogical advisor meets with the teacher once a
the pedagogic support    month.
staff                  The inspector visits the school quarterly.
Six days of pedagogical training per year.
2. Evaluation of the     The annual inspection report keeps record of the
pedagogic support      pedagogical support visits.
3. Improvement in test   Most pupils complete their exercises successfully.
results                Reduction in the dropout and repetition rates.



Rlppt d 'ln                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Anr  2
TMi*n66  Pftjid C 00co                                                                                                                                                                                                       PM& I
Trodsi*   PrOt d'Educatlon
CoOits du Prott par Comnposante et Cat6goris de Dipe_ns
(IUSS=400FC)
Eucaton Pimajo                                                                   Formaton Pro_esslonn,ih                        Glion du
PWNCOpeUn i rEduc. Prim.                            ouam de rEducaton Prima                                                                                                  Proist          Tota
Pupn des                                                                                     Evd. APPrnt   E,  Sys Pf.  Oew  Coe    FKh DS la  em ail pl#
Commm.ie   k*sucks               Geoic         OidXqu         P6faogqm    Sum               & Sy. Id. Ed.   cl Fion Pro.    OuLbs    Foin  Prf.    derOEP
Gwd    OA    GoAt    OA    Gowt   IKA    Got   IDA    Gosl   IDA    Gov    IDA    Gust   IDA                Gowt   IDA    GouA    IDA    Govt   IDA    God    iDA    Gust   IDA          Gowt   IA
FCWOO  USLOO  FC.OO  US$.O   FC.000 USS$00  FC.000 USS.00  FC.000 USS.00   C.COO USS.00  FC.00 US.000 FC.000 US$S00   C.COt USS0  FCMOOD USS00  FC.00D USSDD FC.000 USS.000 FC.DD USOD0
R4b &  o_ de* bcom                     120,033   2.2eo                                                                                 779      37                                                 1.053      50 121.885   2.347
Eq*., n_&v6iOc                          15,3BB    730    632      30    632       30    421      20    316      15    316       15   1,388      65                                                 1,895      90  20,947    9iS
Livvet            "PiM                                    316      15  10,358    492    210      10    210      10    210       10                                                                 1,2fO     56  12,564    so2               J-
S5v de 66    k & Falx              180                            50              50             60             60              20                             50                             40             140            860
Fn  de Feendon                                                                                                                                                               400                                            400
Codb f_e6mn              3.566      B0                                                                                1,333     30   7,556    170   3,555      so       0          3,556      80  17.778    400  37.333    840
Fo.k Pdpwon P1>                    100            100            100             120                                                           290                                                                          710
TOMd on   de b           3.558    360 135.401   3.050    947    15  10.989    682    631         90    526      85   1,859      75   9,703    562   3.550    130        0    400   3.556    120  21,9B5    735 192.709   6,534
MW*Am                               10            105              5              10              3              2               1              12              3                              3              5              159
_,-                      356      18  13.540    155      95      10   1.099     35      63      5      53       4    186       4     970      28    360       7       0            356       6   2,199      37  19.271    307
Ta  eade 6du pro*        3.911    388 146.942   3.350   1.042    210  12,088    737    694       96    578      91   2.045      80  10,673    602   3,911    140        0    400   3.911    129  24.184    m   211j.  z.in



55
Staff Appraisal Report                                                                   Annex 3
Third Education Project                                                                    Page I
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Third Education Project
Technical Assistance Program
Part     Objectives and Expected Results    Calendar   Staff    /  Recruitment Mode
Months
Int'l   Reg'l  Nat'l
A.     Primary Education
1. Training of staff for IEC campaigns to
primary schools                        1997-1999     6               6
2. Training of staff for workshops on
school efficiency                      1998-2000     8               8
3. Follow-up on school-based contracts    1998-1999  4               2       2
4. Learning assessments for pupils in
Grade 6                                1998;2000     10       2              8
5. Final evaluation                        2002      4        1              3
B.      Vocational Training
1. Training needs assessement              1998      3        1      2
2.  Financing  and  management  of
vocational training                    1999-2000     4        1      3
3. Preparation of training modules and
instructor training                    1998-2001     8               8
4. OVT staff training                  1998-2001     5               5
C.      Project Management
1. Audit of Project accounts          1997-2002      6        6
2. PMU staff training                  1998-2001     5                5
3. Study of the impact of the Master Plan   1999     4               4
Total                                                       67        1 1    43      13



56
Staff Appraisal Report                                                                                         Annex 4
Third Education Project                                                                                          Page I
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Third Education Project
Implementation Schedule
Project Element            Key Dates I                 Project Year                  Total    Remarks
or Unit(s) |1997-9811998-9911999-0012000-0112001-0212002-031   l      
Credit Effectiveness                       Oct-97
Objective 1: Improve Primary Education
IEC to participating schools          Million USS    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10          0.50
Signature of school-based contracts       Schools     10      15     25      30      40            120
Implementation of school-based contracts    Classrooms  20   30      45      60      65            220      NCB and
Civil Works                          Million USS    0.20    0.30    0.50    0.60    0.50    0.20    2.30   Community
Equipement, Furniture                Million USS    0.20    0.40    0.05    0.05                  0.70    ICB; NCB
Educational Materials                Million USS    0.10    0.60                                  0.70    ICB; NCB
Management, Supervision, Methods     Million USS    0.10    0.10    0.20    0.05    0.05          0.50
Learning Assessment (1988 and 2000)  Million US$           0.05           0.05                    0.10    In October
Objective 2: Improve Training
Establish Office for Vocational Training  May-97    0.20    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.08    0.03    0.60
Appoint Director of OVT                   Aug-97
Initiate training sub-projects            Sep-97    0.05    0.05    0.07    0.10    0.10    0.03    0.40
Conduct Study on Financing of Training    Dec-99                    0.05                           0.05
Conduct Study on Management of System     Dec-00                           0.05                    0.05
Objective 3: Strengthen Management                   0.30    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.15    0.05    1.10
Appoint Coordinator of PMU                May-97
Appoint Staff in PMU                       Jul-97
Appoint Staff in OVT                      Sep-97
Establish Regional Coordination Offices   Aug-97
Develop Systems and Procedures             Jul-97
Accounting and Auditing                  Aug-97
Procurement Procedures                   Sep-97
Reporting                                Sep-97
Prepare Annual Work Programs                      Oct-97  Oct-98  Oct-99  Oct-00  Oct-01
Prepare Annual Reports on Implementation          Oct-97  Oct-98  Oct-99  Oct-00  Oct-01
Supervision                                                                                              2 Missions/Yr
Launching Workshop                        Sep-97
Review Annual Work Programs                      Nov-97 Nov-98 Nov-99 Nov-00 Nov-01                     In November
Project Completion                         Jun-02
Closing Date                               Dec-02
Total (Bank Financed)                  Million USS    1.25    1.90    1.27    1.30    0.98    0.31    7.00
Cumulative           3.15    4.42    5.72    6.70    7.00    7.00



Staff Appraisal Report                                                                                      Annex 5
TMird Education Project                                                                                      Page I
Expected Outcomes and Performance Indicators
Component 1
Objective: increase participation and improve learning of children at primary level
Objective              Performance indicators            Follow-up measures            Base year: 1995-96
Increase enrollment in    Increase in new intakes in Grade 1  Admission ratios (new intakes to  National   90%
primary schools                                            population age 7);            Hamahame          68%
School statistics             Uziwani          79%
Fomboni          85%
Domoni           62%
Nyumakele        45%
Sima             66%
Reduce regional and sub-  Reduction in the gap between the  Comparison of gross and net               Gross  Net
regional disparities    enrollment ratios in school districts    enrollment ratios between the    National  83%    55%
school districts and regions;  Hamahame   85%    66%
Schools statistics            Uziwani      81%    62%
Fomboni    96%    81%
Domoni      63%    50%
Nyumakele  49%    42%
Sima        79%    68%
Increase girls          Increase in the number of girls    Ratio of male to female new   National ratio(estimate) 1:1.3
participation to match or  entering Grade 1                intakes to Grade 1 by school  (data by school district not
exceed boys participation                                  district;                     presently available)
School statistics
Increase the number of    Reduction in dropout and repetition    Comparison of promotion,  Grade   1 2 3 4 5 6
students who complete    rates at all levels               repetition and dropout rates;  Pr. (%) 56 64 59 60 61 32
primary school                                             School statistics             Rp. (%) 31 30 31 30 28 44
Dr. (%) 13 6 11111114
Ensure that teaching is    160 class days per school year,  Annual calendar of school
effectively and regularly  including examinations          activities and end-of-year reports
taking place in
classrooms



Staff Appraisal Report                                                                                   Annex 5
Third Education Project                                                                                    Page 2
Component 2
Objective: improve competencies of skilled workers
Objective                 Performance indicators          Follow-up measures       Base year: 1995-96
Improve the linkage between       Increase in the number of trainees   Percentage of beneficiaries who   Data presently not
professional training and employment who are productively employed    find employment within 1, 3 and  available; OVT will
after completion of training   6 months and who are employed  carry out data
after I and 2 years; Tracer   collection and
studies                      publication
Contribute to economic growth and    Improvement in the productivity    Production and wage data  Idem
productivity in the workplace     and salary progression of      analysis; Tracer studies
beneficiaries
Improve cost-effectiveness of     Comparison of economic cost    Comparative cost analysis in the  Idem
vocational training               (total and per-diem) between   Comoros and in neighboring
various training schemes       countries: (a) per trainee; (b) per
day of training; (c) per type of
training;                                               c
Data on sub-projects and
comparison with other countries
in the Indian Ocean



Staff Appraisal Report                                                                                    Annex 5
Third Education Project                                                                                     Page 3
Implementation of the Program for the Reinforcement of Education and Training
Objective: improve system efficiency and ensure sustainability of investments
Objective                Performance indicators           Follow-up measures        Base year: 1995-96
Ensure that Ministry of Education  Fewer work disruptions;      Number of effective school-days   (School year l995-
staff fulfill their employment    Effective presence of teachers    per academic year;          96 took place
obligations                       and of support and            Compliance with the school      normally; school
administrative staff,         calendar established by the     year 1996-97 was
Regular payment of civil      Ministry;                       disrupted)
servants' salaries            Statements of wage payment from
Treasury.
Ensure that a minimum non-salary  An increasing share of the    Effective disbursment of allocated  (Only about a third
recurrent budget is allocated to  Ministry of Education budget is  budget with at least 5% of   of the non-salary
schools and to core operations    allocated to non-salary recurrent  recurrent budget spent on:  recurrent budget
expenditures for priority action   transfers to schools; inspection  was effectively
programs                      visits; examinations; school    disbursed in 1996)
statistics; Budget allocations, and
public accounts
Ensure generalization and         Feasibility and financial     Evaluation and reporting of each   (The priority
sustainability of measures adopted  examination of proposed     measure, and prospective spending  operations for 1997
and implemented by the Ministry of   measures / programs.       programs for priority operations    will serve as
Education                                                                                       framework of
reference)
Diversify sources of financing and  A financing policy which    A policy environment favoring   (Public education
increase the contributions of     includes: a larger share of public  private sector development,  sector allocations:
beneficiaries                     spending in primary education; a  community and beneficiary   primary: 37%
larger contribution of        participation; Ad hoc surveys and   secondary: 30%
beneficiaries and private sector   economic study reports    tertiary: 9%)
at secondary and tertiary levels.
Ensure the stability of the teaching  Management by position and  Correspondence between available  (Apparent retention
and managerial staff              stability in assigned position  positions and actual assignments;  rate: 89%)
Physical control



60
Staff Appraisal Report                                                   Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                    Page 1
Section A:   Primary Education: Internal Efficiency
In a context of severely constrained public resources, savings that can be made by
improving internal efficiency may be one of the precious few alternatives left to ensure
that adequate resources are allocated to the subsector. This section examines the present
internal efficiency status of public primary schools and assesses whether there is room for
improvement. If savings from gains in efficiency are potentially high, then there are
potentially equally high payoffs to improving student flow.
The table below summarizes the present status of repetitions and dropouts in primary
schools in the Comoros.
Table 1: Repetition and Dropouts in Primary Schools in the Comoros
Grade      CPI         CP2         CEI         CE2         CM1         CM2
promotion  52.0%        61.0%       56.0%      56.0%       55.0%       21.0%
repetition   36.0%     35.0%       37.0%       36.0%       38.0%       56.0%
dropout    12.0%       4.0%        7.0%        -8.0%   - 7.0%          23.0%
Total       100.0%      100.0%      100.0%      100.0%      100.0%     100.0%
This table can be used to produce the theoretical student-flow chart below.
Chart 1: Simulated Student-Flow in Primary Schools
CPI        CP2          CEI          CE?          CMI          CM2          Pir-Y
Schoobl
120                                                                    Graduate
1,000 1      ~~~~~~~~21
22
80  J182                  <                14
130                                   13
0                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~143  7
42
The information in Chart 1 above is summarized in table 2 below.
For a cohort of 1,000 students who are allowed a maximum of two repetitions per class.
y
2    +      +      r where w represents enrollments, x repetition, y dropout and z promotion.



61
Staff Appraisal Report                                                   Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                   Page 2
Table 2: Student-Years Spent to Produce Primary School Graduates
Grade attained                          I           All         Student-
Year  CPI  CP2   CEI  CE2  CMI  CM2  Graduates  students   years
1     120                   -                              120         120
2     43    21                                             64          128
3      16    15    22                        _ _           53          158
4            8      24    14                               46          184
5          __       17    20    7 --                       45          223
6                          18    13    13       11         55          331
7     -                __         14    30      27         71          498
8                                       42      38         80          639
All   179   43    63    53    33    84          77         534         2,282
The information above can be usefully condensed into the following indicators:
* Number of student-years to produce 77 primary school graduates = 2,282
* Number of student-years to produce one primary school graduate = 29.6
*  Wastage ratio = 4.9
* Percentage of initial cohort that passes CM2 without repetition = 1%
*  Survival rate to CM2 allowing for 2 repetitions = 31 %
* Percentage of cohort that completes CE2 = 48%
In other words, it takes on average 4.9 times longer to produce a primary-school graduate
in the Comoros than in a system with no repetition or dropouts. Such a system is but a
distant ideal, and one may argue that those savings are theoretical. For that reason, the
wastage ratio associated with a more realistic4 scenario for improvement in internal
efficiency is also computed. Table 3a shows what improvements result from improving
internal efficiency, and the potential savings per graduate produced vis-a-vis both the
long-term ideal and the more realistic medium-term target.
Table 3a: Potential savings per graduate from improvements in internal efficiency
Present   Medium-term   Long-term
Student-years per graduate              29.6      8.1            6
Cost per graduate' (FC)                 483,102   132,543        97,800
Savings per graduate (FC) versus present  '0      350,559        385,302
Computed as the number of student-years (22.3) over the theoretical number of years needed to
produce one graduate (a six-year program).
The dropout rate is taken to decrease to 4% and the repetition rate to 15% throughout the primary
cycle.
5   Computed as the product of the unit cost per student per year (FC 16,300) and the number of years.



62
Staff Appraisal Report                                             Annex 6
Third Education Project                                              Page 3
Most of the potential savings can be generated in the medium term with very realistic
targets for improvements in internal efficiency. In addition to the savings in the
education system, speedier graduation means that students spend less time at school, so
that both direct and opportunity costs incurred by households are lower.
The improvements in the system can also be read in education terms, as in table 3b.
Table 3b: Education indicators
Present          Medium-term target
% of cohort completing primary    8%            67%
% of cohort completing grade 4  48%             90%
These indicators can be computed regularly during and after project implementation and
could be used to monitor progress against the benchmarks established in tables 3a and 3b.
Resources freed up by improving internal efficiency can be utilized in two ways: (i) the
intake of students could be reduced without changing the number of graduates, and the
savings generated could be allocated anywhere else within or outside the education
system; or (ii) the savings could be used to increase the intake of students and thereby of
graduates. In view of the fact that university primary enrollment is a declared objective
of the GOC, it is appropriate that the freed-up resources be allocated to accommodate
more children in the school system.
The question then is how best to use these savings in order to increase enrollment; in
other words, what are the most cost-effective ways of achieving this objective. The
community-based approach retained in the GOC strategy and adopted in this project
could indeed be the best instrument by which to determine what the most cost-effective
investments are for each school if only because the stakeholders are given a real
opportunity to analyze problems, prioritize corrective actions, mobilize staff, and change
the school environment as appropriate. This heuristic process is more likely to yield the
best mix of inputs and measures to correct a malfunctioning school than is a
deterministic, top-down approach. The following additional elements militate in favor of
the community-based approach: (i) by giving communities an opportunity to create and
manage assets, their role in the education sector changes from that of consumers to that of
stakeholders; (ii) stakeholders are informed of the financial and social cost implications
of low efficiency and are therefore more concerned about dropout and repetition; and (iii)
the system would be building upon an existing track record of strong communal ties and
community involvement in the creation and management of assets.



63
Staff Appraisal Report                                                Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                Page 4
Section B:   Equity Issues
Judgments about equality of distribution of education benefits depend upon the particular
criterion - of which there exist many - for measuring the distribution of benefits. Four
such equity indexes are computed here which, while they do not exhaust the equity
question, help to show that the proposed investment will lead to less inequality, and that
it will favor disadvantaged groups/sectors.
B. 1   Equity in the Distribution of Public Spending on Education
A first way of addressing the equity issue is to look at who benefits from system-wide
public spending in education: the more students progress in the education system, the
6
more public resources they cumulate . Equity in this particular sense therefore hinges
upon two elements: the enrollment ratio and the level of public spending per student at
each level. Table 4a below shows the enrollment ratio and unit cost structure in the
Comoros which is the basis for the assessment on the status of equity.
Table 4a: Enrollment Ratio and Unit Cost Structures in the Comoros
Level of education   Enrollment ratios    Public unit cost per Years in Cycle of
l_____________ _ l                    |year of study (FC)   study
Primary            89                  16,300              6
Lower secondary    20                  58,750              4
Upper secondary     13                 90,000              3
The information above can be recast to show (table 4b) the highest educational attainment
of one hundred representative school-age children.
Table 4b: Share of aggregate public expenditure in education by level
Highest educational Number of Cumulative public Aggregate   Share of total
attainment          students    expenditure   per cumulative  aggregate
student           expenditure  expenditure
No education        11'         0                  0           0.0%
Primary             69          97,932             6,757,308   39.9%
Lower secondary     7           332,920            2,330,440   13.8%
Upper secondary     13          602,920            7,837,960   46.3%
All                 100                            16,925,708  100.0%
6  Staying longer in the system by repeating (i.e. without progressing) is, on the other hand, a waste of
public resources.
7  Very likely underestimated.



64
Staff Appraisal Report                                                         Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                          Page 5
Finally, the information can be used to compute a Gini coefficient (table 4c). The
computed value of 0.46 indicates that there is still room for improvement in the equality
of spending of public resources in education
Table 4c: Summary Information and Gini Coefficient
Percentage of population        Percentage of cumulative public spending on education
0.0                              0.0
11.0                            0.0
80.0                             39.9
87.0                             53.7
100.0                           100.0
Derived Gini coefficient        0.46
Charts 2a and 2b9 below indicate the potential effects on the Gini coefficient of (a)
increasing the primary enrollment ratio from 89 to 100, and (b) increasing unit public
spending in primary education, both of which are objectives towards which the project
contributes. A similar analysis demonstrates that a ceteris paribus increase in enrollments
or unit spending in upper secondary will cause the Gini coefficient to worsen. The equity
analysis therefore suggests freeing up public resources from upper secondary level and
reallocating these resources at primary level. The accompanying policy recommendation
would be a greater reliance on the private sector for the provision of education at upper
secondary level.
Chart 2a: Ceteris Paribus Effect of Simulated Changes In the Primary
School Enrollment Ratio on the Gini Coefficient
0.46
0.44 4t
0.34
0.32 
0.32
89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96    97    98    99    100
primary school enrollment
A perfectly equitable system has a Gini coefficient of 0 and a perfectly inequitable system of 1. The
computed Gini coefficient (0.46) indicates significant inequity.
Arrows indicate present level.



65
Staff Appraisal Report                                                              Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                               Page 6
Chart 2b: Ceteris Paribus Effect of Simulated Changes in Primary
Education Public Unit Spending on Gini Coefficient
0.465                                                 -
0.46
0.455
.~0.45
21 445 _ 
0.44
0.435
0.43
0.425
15,000    15,500    16,000     16,500    17,000     17,500    18,000
unit cost
The charts above clearly indicate that a ceteris paribus increase in primary enrollments
significantly improves the equity status of public spending in education (a one-point rise
in the primary enrollment ratio reduces the Gini coefficient by about 2%). Increased
public unit spending in primary education also improves the Gini coefficient (an increase
in unit spending of FC 5,000 reduces the Gini coefficient by about 1.3%). The obvious
limitation of the above analysis is that it does not help determine whether the absolute
level of unit costs by subsector is adequate.
B.2    Geographic disparities
Another possible source of inequit,y is geographical coverage. Charts 3a, 3b, and 3c
below plot representation indexes  for each of the school-districts (CIPRs). Those
districts that are under-represented are pointed out.
Chart 3a: Representation index for primary-school
enrollment by school district (CIPR) based on gross enrollment ratios
160
140
I120
5 80zwaa
20          Grande Comore               Mhl              Aniousn
0%     10%    20%    30%    40%    50%    60%    70%    80%    90%    100%
Cumulative percentag. of school-age (7-12) population by CIPR
The geographic representation index for a region is computed as the ratio of the share of enrollments
(net and gross) or intakes at age 7 to the share of population.



66
Staff Appraisal Report                                                               Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                                Page 7
Chart 3b: Representation index based on net enrollment ratios
160                               - ---  --_
140
E120            J<
100
0
5  80       Hamahame                Uziwani                                 Sima
60                                            Domoni          N
40                                                            Nyumakele
20            Grande Comore             Moh6li             AnJouan
0
0%     10%    20%    30%    40%        50%    60%    70%    80%    90%    100%
Cumulative percentages of school-age (7-12) population by CIPR
Chart 3c: Representation index based on Intake at age 7
1 60                        ---~~ 
140
s120
80-    Hamahame                                                          Sima
40                                                           Nyumakele
20             Grande Comore           Mohdli          Anjouen
o 0       I                                                                      l
0%     10%    20%    30%    40%    50%    60%         70%    80%    90%    100%
Cumulative percentages of population age 7 by CIPR
From the charts above, it is obvious that the CIPRs which need particular attention are
Hamahame and Uziwani in Grande Comore, and Domoni, Nyumakele and Sima in
Anjouan. To maintain inter-island equity, the CIPR of Fomboni (Moheli) is also
regarded as needing priority attention.
B.3    Gender disparities
The representation index for net primary enrollments was also calculated separately for
males and females. Table 5 below indicates that there is a slight overall bias in the
Comoros in favor of males. Disaggregation by island shows a more complex picture:
Grande Comore shows equal representation of both sexes, while Anjouan exhibits serious
under-representation of girls in primary schools.



67
Staff Appraisal Report                                                     Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                      Page 8
Table 5: Representation index based on gross enrollment ratios by sex
Sex              Grande Comore  Moheli             Anjouan          Comoros
Male             99               107              120              108
Female           101              93               79               92
Chart 4 below  shows the representation  index further disaggregated  by  CIPR.
Interestingly, the gender analysis yields the same priorities as the geographic one. The
project's focus on expanding enrollments and improving the learning environment in
Hamahame, Uziwani, Fomboni, Domoni, Nyumakele and Sima therefore simultaneously
addresses gender and geographic inequities.
Chart 4: Representation index based on female net enrollment ratios
180
160
8 140
4 60
2 0 iooael
20            Grande Comore        Moh6fi         Anjouan
0%    10%   20%    30%   40%    50%   60%    70%    80%    90%   100%
Cumulative percentages of school-age (7-13) population by CIPR
B. 4   Income disparities
The last equity issue addressed here is whether there is an enrollment bias against poor
people. Table 6"1 below indicates that schooling attainment at primary level is only
loosely related to income level. Biases are more significant at secondary level - access to
school is then more obviously related to income level.
By focusing on primary education, the project can therefore be said to favor that sub-
sector which discriminates least against poor households.  The effect of project
involvement in secondary technical schooling upon equity is rather more difficult to
assess. First, participation in secondary technical education exhibits a lower income bias
than for upper secondary education and above - in other words, it seems that technical
education is less inaccessible to poorer students than is general secondary education. But
since technical education does display some degree of income bias, it could be argued
that the project accentuates an anti-poor bias. However, the mode of delivery proposed by
the project is very different from the traditional system which does seem to favor students
Source: draft of 'EBC - Exploitation en vue de I'analyse de la pauvrete,' J. Barbe, Plani-Stats, Nov.
1995.



68
Staff Appraisal Report                                                  Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                   Page 9
from wealthier households - if only because they are the ones most likely to reach lower
secondary which is a pre-requisite for entry in the existing vocational training programs.
The proposed delivery mode is demand-driven and benefits the enterprise and its
employees - there is therefore no a priori reason why this system should favor wealthier
over poorer employees.
Table 6: Income level and schooling attainment
Income quintiles
Schooling attainment'      1st      2nd      3rd      4th       5th      Total"
None                       23.1%    12.7%    20.6%    16.1%    27.5%    100.0%
CM2                        19.5%    18.1%    19.0%    18.7%    24.8%    100.0%
Lower secondary           21.6%    14.2%    16.6%    19.7%    28.0%    100.0%
Upper secondary            12.6%    16.7%    10.2%    21.1%    39.5%    100.0%
Secondary technical        17.7%    17.7%    5.9%     26.5%    32.4%    100.0%
BAC & above                17.5%    6.1%     7.0%      10.5%    58.7%    100.0%
12  The columns for the 2nd and 3rd income quintiles appear to contain anomalies.
13  Note that columns do not total 100%; the table must be read as: "what is the income distribution of
individuals with no education/primary education/lower secondary education/etc. in the sample?"



69
Staff Appraisal Report                                                            Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                           Page 10
Section C:    Budget execution in the education sector and sustainability
The most important issue that remains to be addressed is that of the sustainability of
education projects. Budget allocation as such does not seem to be a problem. Chart 5
below shows that the education sector has been relatively spared in a context of fiscal
austerity.
Chart 5: Evolution of MEN Budget
16,000.0 
14,000.0
U  12,000.0
o0  10 ooc0.0                 l                 
._                                                      * -    -    1    -    -    -    -    *  aRest of Gov
E   8,000.0        **                                                      OMOE
G   6,000.0
:   4,000.0
2,000.0
;p   uZj   (D   I'-   r    Ou    0    -     C     rJ  C '
0    (0   a)   00    0    0          C0 4 0    0    '0
~o~  co  co   co  co   a)   o            ( o    a)   o
The amount allocated to the education sector consistently represents twenty percent or
more of total government expenditures. However this budget allocation is largely
theoretical - the actual amount disbursed is far lower and payment is erratic. The
situation as far as salary goes is the same as in the rest of the civil service (in January
1997, payment arrears reached an estimated ten months); non-salary budget execution in
the education sector, shown in chart 6 below, is equally unpredictable.
Chart 6: Non-Salary Budget Execution in 1995
700,000,000      _-   or82.5%ofallocatedbudget
600,000,000
500,000,000
400,000,000
300,000,000
200,000,000
100,000,000                    _      
35.2% of allocated budget '
(152%GOC 92%EU. 
10.8% awaiting
Allocated     Committed      Disbursed or       disbursement)
Budget         Budget        awaiting
disbursement
Part of the problem can only be dealt with at the macroeconomic level (all measures
aiming at improving government finances through better tax and customs administration,
civil service reform, line item budget management ("gestion par poste budgetaire") and
through resumption of growth. A number of savings measures can also be implemented
at the education sector level to ensure that adequate resources are allocated in order that



70
Staff Appraisal Report                                                         Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                        Page 1 1
the proposed activities be carried out. The project supports three such series of measures:
(a) savings generated by improving the internal efficiency of the system; (b) savings
realized through the rationalization of general and technical secondary schools; and (c)
core operation support in the education sector.
The remainder of this Section is a proposal for alternative investment and recurrent
budgets. These budget proposals are believed to be more realistic in view of the likely
levels of donor involvement and of government finances. These proposals were discussed
with GOC both during the joint Bank/IMF mission that visited the Comoros in January
1997 and the Education Sector mission that visited the Comoros in late February.
A. Investment Budget
To support the objectives of the Program for the Reinforcement of Education and
Training (PRET), the following "realistic" 14 investment plan is proposed for the period
1997 to 2001.
Table 7: Education sector public investment program
Financiers (billion FC) `      1997      1998      1999     2000      2001    | Total
Donors"b                       0.5       1.0       1.5      1.5       1.5       6.0
National (5% of yearly total)  0.03      0.05     0.08      0.08      0.08      0.3
Total                          0.53      1.05      1.58     1.58      1.58      6.3
B. Recurrent Budget
PRET budget projections were based on the 1995 budget summarized in table 8 below.
Table 8: Education sector budget (1995 "Loi des Finances")
Categories                                  Allocated Amounts (billion FC)
Personnel / Salaries                        2.55
Equipment                                   0.66
Transfers                                   0.58
Total                                        3.79
14  The PRET (May 1996 draft) envisages an investment program of FC 13.2 billion over a five-year
period, of which 12.1 would financed by external assistance; the breakdown by year looks as follows:
(billion FC)                 1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      Total
Donors + Communities + GOC    2.3      3.9       2.9       2.1       2.0        13.2
15  Note: the exchange rate as of January 1997 was 400 FC/US$
16 External assistance is mostly comprised of FF6 million envisaged by the French Cooperation over a
period of 3 years, and US$6.3 million IDA credit (excluding US$0.71 million for Project Preparation)
over a period of 5 years.



71
Staff Appraisal Report                                                    Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                   Page 12
Comoros has a poor record for both salary and non-salary budget execution (cf. chart 6
above). This record provides the motivation for "core operatinon" approach which
allocates resources to those categories that are essential to allow the system to function
and puts a cap on the other non-essential categories. To ensure a functioning and
sustainable education system in the Comoros, (i) teachers salaries must be paid regularly;
(ii) adequate resources must be allocated at school-level and for critical support systems
in order that "core operations" be carried out; and (iii) other non-salary expenditures need
to be capped. These three elements are discussed in turn now.
B. I Salaries
Realistic wage bill projections for 1997 would require adding to the 1995 wage bill
(FC2.55 billion), (i) the salary payments of the 300 recruits of 1996, and (ii) salary
increases. The sum of these two items is estimated at FCO.3 billion. The results from the
two surveys in 1996 will permit a better estimate of wage bill for 1997.
The issue of payment of salary arrears17 also has to be addressed. It is unlikely that the
GOC will be able to pay these arrears in one installment - what is proposed instead is a
payment plan staggered over a period of three years; for example, two months in 1997,
18
four months in 1998 and the final four in 19991 .
For this budget category, the objectives in 1997 would therefore be two-fold: (i) ensure
the timely payment of salaries - i.e. no accumulation of additional arrears; (ii) pay a
portion (two months) of the salary arrears for 1995-1996.
B. 2 "Core operations"
"Core operations" would include the following: (a) transfering to schools the minimum
budgetary resources to provide teaching and learning materials for all primary and
secondary schools at the start of each year - the necessary funds are estimated at FC120.6
million; (b) ensuring that pedagogical visits of inspectors and pedagogical advisors to
schools are carried out regularly; an amount of FC 10.1 millions would be needed to fund
this activity; (c) organizing exams; this task would cost an estimated FC60.9 million; and
(d) carrying out a school/staff census every six months - which would cost an estimated
FC10 million. The total amount needed for these core operations is estimated at FC201.6
million.
17 An estimated ten months in January 1997.
18 If 2 months salary arrears are reimbursed in 1997, then a further FC425 million have to be budgeted.



72
Staff Appraisal Report                                               Annex 6
Third Education Project                                              Page 13
B. 3 The ceiling non-salary budget
The projected cap for non-salary expenditures in 1997 is estimated by applying a small
growth coefficient (5%) to the 1995 non-salary budget from which spending for primary
and secondary (already included in the "core operations"), as well as tertiary (reliance on
private funding) have been subtracted. This amount is estimated at FC582 million.
B. 4 Summary recurrent budget for 1997
Table 9: Alternative recurrent budget for 1997
Categories                               Proposed budget allocations (billion FC)
Salaries                                                2.85
"Core operations"                                        0.20
Ceiling non-salary budget                                0.58
Total                                                    3.63
Payment of 2 months salary arrears                       0.43
Total including payment of 2 months arrears              4.06
Note that the proposed budget for 1997 (FC3.63 billion), is lower than the 1995 budget
(FC3.79 billion). It should therefore stand a better chance of being effectively disbursed.



73
Staff Appraisal Report                                                       Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                       Page 14
Section D:   Vocational Training: Rationale for Public Intervention and Feasibility
D. I   Public intervention in vocational training
No general case can be made for public provision of vocational training, but a case can be
made for public intervention in vocational training. There is little or no dispute as to the
need to rationalize publicly-provided vocational training schools - the supply-driven
approach that currently exists has proven to be a failure. The proposed change to a
demand-driven system that is responsive to expressed needs is most urgent. While there
is a need for Govemnment to give up on its role as provider and principal financier of
technical education, there are reasons to believe that some forms of government
intervention in the field is still desirable and necessary.
The first reason is that there are acute coordination problems in the Comoros. Most
enterprises are too small to individually incur the overhead costs of training programs,
and since the cost of coordinating with other enterprises in the sector is high, the demand
for training is likely to be sub-optimal. By acting as coordinator and facilitator, the
Government can usefully contribute to the well-functioning training system.
The second reason is that there are externalities associated with some vocational training
schemes that are not captured by the beneficiaries of the training. Once again there is a
risk that private demand for training be sub-optimal from a social viewpoint. The
proposed Vocational Training Fund, which will be the principal instrument for furthering
the new technical training policy, will have to discriminate between the different training
schemes. In those areas where there is a presumption that benefits are captured by the
beneficiaries, the Fund would restrict its intervention to that of facilitator and coordinator:
fees paid by beneficiary firms and individuals will then have to cover the direct training
costs. In areas where there are large external benefits, the Fund might subsidize part of
the training scheme. According to its diagnostic of the particular distortion that is
causing sub-optimal outcomes in the training market, the Fund is therefore able to
modulate the form of its intervention as well as the extent of its financial involvement.
D.2   Rates of return
For lack of appropriate wage and cost data, it has not been possible to conduct a full-
fledged cost-benefit analysis. Based on a number of interviews carried out with private
sector employers'9 during the June 1996 and March 1997 missions, it was however
19  Included meeting with representatives of the tourism industry, small-scale textiles, fisheries,
construction, and informatics. The mission also met with the employer's union (OPACO) and with
the Association for the Promotion of the Private Sector (APSP).



74
Staff Appraisal Report                                                   Annex 6
Third Education Project                                                   Page 15
possible to carry out a very rough estimate of rates of return for vocational training using
the short-cut method (see equation 1 below).
ROR = (Wvoc - WSEC)/(training duration * (unit cost of training + WSEC))  (1)
Estimated average unit cost of training: FC140,000 per year. Average duration of
training: 2.5 years. Average annual salary for a lower secondary school leaver:
FC360,000; average annual salary for a holder of a vocational training diploma:
FC700,000.
ROR = (700,000 - 360,000)/(2.5 * (140,000 + 360,000)) = 27%
This rough calculation indicates that the scheme is feasible. The proposed demand-
driven approach supported by the Vocational Training Fund is also likely to be superior
to the existing system. On the cost side, the new system will see a reduction in the
duration of training but an increase in unit cost: the likelihood is that overall costs in the
two systems would be comparable. On the benefit side however, the supply-driven
system offers no guarantee that the trainees will find employment, whereas the
beneficiaries of the training in a demand-driven system are, for the most part, already
employed and will, at worst, go back to their previous job with only a minimal salary rise.
Where Wvoc is the salary at labor market entry of a vocational training scheme graduate and WSEC is
the corresponding salary for a secondary school graduate.



This mopwosIprepo.d by the Mop Unit ofthe World lok.                 TANZA40NIA         ~                         4048
The boandoares color dnomtonsond ay  , H                             TAN ZAN  I A_o                     Grand
shon o tis map d no kinply, on the part of Th.e WoVd Bank Grspr o     - .         _oma 7I1
any p4gote m the WgsItI oIvf o,ry tetoyr m  -brem                  -           .                              "C        Anjouon 
M  I             s~~~~~~r occqse of schbwadore                       -120"                                                            Anoa                           120t
'     !  L/ f '                                    Mohel,
~~~Maro ~~~~~~~~C~ORJ                    S   K ."l
(Fr.)
Hohoya                                                                   '.~~~~~~~~~   MOZAMBIQUE
H*hC,n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   #
KILOMETERS
0   100  200  300
I1                                                                                                               0 '00            200        MADAGASCAR
NGAZ  IDJA                                                                                               A MIES0
(GRANDE                                                          340                  40                   44                  480                  52
M) ONI  \/                       COMORE)                                                   44
MOPONI   6       1 /fi(
Iconi                                                                                                  COMOROS
% aW8 knr&mrt'                                       THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
MitsoudjeC t\
FW Foumbouni
Ouioini                                                                  ROADS                0    TOWNS
+   AIRPORTS     '~-~---    CONTOURS (elevations in feet)
j   ~       ~PORTS            *      SPOT ELEVATIONS (in feet)
REEFS
12'
12 -
MOW A E I  i_       (ANJOUAN)
MWALI
5       025
5    O                              25C
".                    KILOMETERtS                                                                             44e_ 
414









IMAGING
Report No.:         16375   COM
Type.      SAR



